ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e57	The representative Åse Michaelsen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Sogn and Fjordane County: Bjørn Erik Hollevik For Telemark County: Hanne Thürmer For the South-Trundellag County: Ferhat Güven A number of permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative Kåre Simensen from 30 March onwards and until further notice from the Workers' Group on the welfare leave of the representative Lisbeth Berg-Hansen from 3 April to 6 April from the Workers' Party Group on the Permit of the Representative Sverre Myrli from 4 April to 6 April to take part in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Kiev by the representatives of Rigmor Andersen Eide, Ruth Grung, Irene Johansen, Kjell-Idar Juvik, Ulf Leirstein, Sonja Mandt and Knut Storberget on leave of 3 and 4 April, all to attend meetings of the Nordic Council of Stockholm by the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representative, Eirik Sivertsen, on the 5th and 6th of April, to attend the Arctic Conference in Bodø from the representative of Jørund Rytman on parental leave from 5 April to 28 April These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Finnmark County, Ingarill Olsen, an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget from 29 March until 6 April is submitted to the representative of Kåre Simensen for reasons of well-being. From the first deputy representative of the Nordland County, Tone-Helen Toften, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget on the 3rd and 4th of April under the authority of the representative Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, for reasons of well-being. From the first alternate of the Eastfold County, Wenche Olsen, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Irene Johansen for welfare reasons. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The second and third alternates of the Eastfold counties, Fredrik Bjørnebekk-Waaagen and Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen, both currently have parental leave and are therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Irene Johansen. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Are Health For Buskerud County: Tone Heimdal Brataas For Finnmark County: Runar Seestad and Ingenill Olsen For Hedmark County: Lasse Juliussen For the county of Hordaland: Eigil Knutsen For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Steinar Reiten For Nordland County: Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren, Tone-Helen Toften and Anette Kristine Davidsen For the Westfold province: Steinar Gullvåg For Eastfold County: Håvard Jensen and Shakeel Ur Rehman – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of Runar Seestad is present and will take his seat. The representative of Pál Farstad will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e230	I am delighted, on behalf of the big business representatives Trine Skei Grande, Sveinung Rotevatn and myself, to present a proposal for a representative to review the organisation and distribution of the state, with the aim of reducing public activity in well-functioning commercial markets. I would also like to make a representative proposal from representatives of Terje Breivik, Sveinung Rotevatn and myself on a simpler everyday life for small and medium-sized enterprises in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e237	The representative, Mr Q. Raja, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e242	I will, on behalf of the representatives of Terje Breivik, André N. Skkelstad and myself, put forward a proposal for a representative to promote social entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e247	The representative, Mr Ketil Kjeseth, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e252	On behalf of the representatives of Iselin Nybø, Ola Elvestuen, André N. Skkelstad and myself, I would like to make a proposal to set up a programme for technology development in the water industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e257	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e275	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e291	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e300	As the rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the work with Prop. 44 L that we are going to deal with and adopt today. The case concerns changes in the Law on Universities and Higher Education and the Law on Vocational Education. A number of proposals are promoted aimed at improving the quality of training provision, ensuring that institutions operate professionally and ensuring greater transparency and control of State grants and ensuring that the students' own payments are used for accredited and validated education. The Committee stresses the importance of providing funding from grants and own-payments to the benefit of students. The proposal proposes clear organisational requirements. The Committee considers it important to have a legislative framework that provides clear guidelines. The purpose of this is to ensure that the law provides for a uniform and clear regulation of economic and administrative operations. The Committee supports the fact that the AOF Study Association and the National University of Studies are not required to separate the vocational education activities of a limited liability company or a foundation. There is a great deal of cross-political agreement on the proposals in the proposal. The majority, consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, support all the proposals in the matter. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left promote two own proposals, one on organisational form, and the other on distributions to private schools without State aid. I consider it quite certain that the members of the Committee will comment on the matter and argue for their proposals. I am therefore going to comment on the point of view of the Progress Party in the matter. We see that private forces are set to develop schools with practical education and effective training products for the business market. For the Progress Party, it is important to provide these spaces and support for development, both educationally and commercially. Private schools carry out an important societal task by training the skills that society and our working life need, thus contributing to the value creation that is needed to maintain the welfare state. It is very capital-intensive and risky to invest in private schooling in the education sector. Among other things, professional staff are required to be employed before the NOCUT qualification is in place at private colleges. If private schools are to contribute to the development of professionally good and market-oriented educational institutions, the framework conditions must facilitate this and be as predictable as possible over time. Many private schools, the ones we call fresh schools, get government grants. The Party therefore considers it appropriate to impose strict requirements. We believe that the new law requiring that the form of organisation be either a limited liability company or a foundation facilitates serious actors who want to conduct high-quality school activities. The proposed system is such that supervision and control are carried out which reveal when actors are in the process of being enriched by state subsidies, contrary to the legislation. This is important – the funds should benefit the students. No one shall make use of the system to make an improper profit from taxpayers' or students' money. We are therefore pleased that the law has set out clear requirements for an overview of the reporting on what and how the money is used. The Progress Party also wants to bring forward the clean private schools. These are an important complement to the publicly funded education offer, not least in the vocational and other higher education sectors. Here the students pay the entire cost of the education. It is then important to have balanced legislation, which ensures that pupils' payments benefit students and the quality of education, while ensuring that dividends are lawful. The Progress Party believes that option 3, which was widely endorsed in the hearing, will safeguard the interests of both students and private schools. The Progress Party will stress that as important as rules ensuring that students receive a good educational product, there is not too many bureaucratic requirements and regulations in such schools. Creative forces that see the opportunities and, in particular, the needs of the labour market should encourage us to create different training opportunities. The public must not put any obstacles in the way of this. All students deserve the best possible training to suit the individual. We believe that these proposals from the government will do well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e317	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur. It's a somewhat technically demanding thing, an important thing, and I think it's done a good job of getting it out of the committee. First, I want to say that private colleges and private colleges make important contributions to the Norwegian education system, and that they definitely have their place there. The Labour Party is also satisfied with the intention of this proposition, namely to strengthen the quality of higher education in these private institutions, to operate them more professionally, and to increase transparency in the operation of these schools with this amendment. I still have some brief comments to justify our position. One is about the form of organization. We want to investigate this with self-esteem foundations, that it must be a condition to be able to run private colleges and private colleges. The majority, i.e. the government parties and the supporting parties, write that they are critical of getting rich in state subsidies in violation of the law. Of course, it's not allowed to take profit, and that's exactly what's being strengthened in this proposition. But the Westerdals case and also a number of other issues have clearly shown – the Riksrevision has also pointed out – that following up private schools requires a lot of departments and directorates, and that it is quite obvious that from time to time there are always people trying to circumvent the legislation. There are still people who believe and believe that running private schools in Norway is something that money can also be earned, which is going to go to private profit, even if it is legally stated that we are not going to have it in Norway. That's why we wanted to investigate this with organizational form, with foundations, where it won't be possible to take money out of the foundation. Another theme is the ability of the owner to make profits to institutions of the same company or form of organisation that do not receive government grants. The Workers' Party believes, like the SV and the Center Party, that the student's funds and the money that is intended to be spent, either from the state or through school money, are to be used in the accredited part of the business, because then the students know that what they have paid for, and that society has granted to this business, actually goes there. That's why we want that way. The Labour Party is pleased that more stringent legislation is now being passed on to private colleges and specialised schools which receive state aid. This issue, which now arises, shows how demanding it is to have private actors performing a public task, and how important it is to ensure that taxpayers’ money – which was also the concept of case rapporteur Bente Thorsen – is spent on education, but how difficult it is to verify that it is actually done. That's what's behind the story. We have had several things that have had dramatic consequences, both for students and for owners, which might indicate – there are still cases that will come – that show that this here is not as simple as you should have. So the red-green parties go a little bit further in our proposals. With this, I take up the proposals from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e332	The representative of Marianne Aasen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e337	Our students want a safe and predictable study time and a good quality study offer. The private colleges and colleges have an important place and are a natural part of our education offer. Many students get good education through these. In the right, therefore, we are committed to having legislation that helps to ensure this in a clear and good way. We are therefore concerned that the government grants and student payments are well managed and benefited the students. Transparency and good financial control are essential to create security and trust for students and also between school institutions or institutions and society. Therefore, the proposal that private colleges and specialised schools be run as foundations or limited companies – which are well-known corporate forms – makes sense, given that the law ensures both predictability and transparency of operations and the economy. When society contributes financial grants, it is only fair and reasonable that strict reporting requirements are imposed. It is also important, of course, that the ability of society to monitor the use of funds is good. I am also very pleased that this bill specifies that there should be maximum transparency in the work of the board, and that it is the responsibility of the board to ensure that the operation complies with both law and guidelines. However, it is at least equally important that it is also clarified that the board is responsible for providing students with the training underlying the accreditation. It is important to ensure the quality of education for students. I'm glad the law clarifies it. I also refer to the special provisions of the bill for the two providers who are currently conducting vocational education as a study association. We believe it is reasonable to ensure that these continue to be able to operate. One of the most controversial issues in the bill is the distribution of dividends, and I would like to add a few words to that. In the Right, we support the Ministry's decision to continue today's scheme, where private universities receiving grants do not have the opportunity to pay dividends. We believe that to be a correct assessment. In the case of non-subsidised private colleges and colleges, which charge students own payments, we believe that distribution should be clearly permitted, but – as proposed in the proposal – provided that equity does not decrease below 20 pst. of the assets of the establishment. Ensuring access to dividends is a fine balance sheet. As legislators, we both need to ensure students' quality in the study offer, and we need to ensure that the owners invest enough to maintain good quality in the study offer. At the same time, we're not going to make it harder to start or run alternative schools. In our view, a certain amount of access to capital gains when the institution does not receive support will be natural. There will be too much interference in the autonomy of private enterprises. We don't think the school, the owners or the students deserve that. In the Right, we want the legislation to ensure good operation and management, but we do not want changes to the law that make it more difficult for serious actors to operate. The intention of the changes in the law addressed by the proposition is, above all, to ensure that all State aid benefits the students. Together with the new supervisory authority, which was established last year, we believe in the Right that there is a good basis for ensuring better follow-up and control of the use of grants and self-payment by the students in line with what is required.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e358	Private colleges and specialised schools are an important part of the education sector in Norway. They contribute to diversity, they carry out an important societal mission, and in addition, we know that some of the private institutions are spearheads within their disciplines. That is why we need a policy that facilitates private actors and that gives them both stable and predictable framework conditions to operate within. At the same time, it is important that private education is also required, and it is an objective and a fundamental premise that the state subsidy received by private universities should benefit students and students. We have seen some examples in recent years that some actors have managed to circumvent the ban on dividends and collect significant amounts of private profit. A review and clarification of the law has therefore been necessary. Clear frameworks, transparency and clear requirements will increase quality and ensure that institutions operate professionally, and I am pleased that most of the government's proposals also receive broad support in the sector. I believe it is a reasonable requirement that private, accredited colleges should be organised either as foundations or as limited companies. Then I register that the red-green parties will demand that everyone be organized as foundations, but in my opinion it would be an unreasonable claim and a restriction of the freedom of organisation that would not be in proportion to what would be achieved with such regulation. The fact that SV is laying down on that line may not be very surprising, but that both the Central Party and the Workers' Party are proposing it today, I am a little more surprised about it. I believe that the Shares Act and the Constitution provide us with the transparency and security, the framework we need, and then we all agree that it makes sense to grant an exception to those student associations that today offer accredited higher education, which are organized as a study association. Today, we also adopt reinforced reporting and documentation requirements, clear requirements for separate accounts for approved education and other activities, and requirements for reporting related trade. This is not to make everyday life the most demanding for institutions, but to ensure sufficient transparency and to make monitoring and supervision simpler and better than today. There's agreement between the parties on most of this matter. We all agree that private universities receiving state grants should continue to have a dividend ban, but in the matter of whether the dividend ban should also apply to NOKUT-accredited colleges that do not receive grants, the bourgeois and red-green parties separate layers. I believe that a ban on distribution for these colleges would make it both more difficult to start new colleges and less interesting to invest private capital in realising good ideas in the education sector, and therefore I think it is right that the ban on distribution should not apply to institutions that do not receive grants. Finally, I would like to refer to the regulatory framework for supervision. It is proposed to clarify that the Ministry is the supervisory authority also for private colleges which do not receive grants and to which the Committee subscribes. But what I don't agree with is the practice of drawing it into the grant to private colleges to fund supervision. In the government budget for the current year, the government will raise 10 million. kr from the grant to the private higher education institutions in order to finance it. In the budget negotiations, the Christian People's Party added 2 million. kr back as a compensation, but I believe in principle that the department's supervisory tasks should not go beyond the grant to private educational institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e373	Let me first say that both private elementary schools, secondary schools, colleges and colleges play an important role in the Norwegian education system. Private actors are encouraged to train pupils and candidates with skills of great importance for society and the labour market. That is why the public supports this through State aid for authorised supply. When this matter is now being dealt with, it is with a serious hindrance. Although the large majority of private schools and private colleges in Norway are professional and solid actors, who are concerned with providing quality training and education, there are a number of issues in which private actors have wrongly made themselves rich and receive money from their customers – that is, students. Several have been in Westerdals-saka, which has shown that, in spite of strict exchange rules, a private group has been able to raise millions of dollars and make improperly rich in state aid and their students' school scaffolds. Without going further into the matter itself, this shows a great need to strengthen the law and to lay more precise limits on the actors who are to manage their social mandate in this market. Unfortunately, this shows that in spite of good intentions and strict rules, some private owners of advanced schools and colleges try to circumvent laws and collect private profits, either through complex corporate structures and transactions, artificially high rents or other crunches. Such a crime is not just a run of elephants and students' s shillings. It's also a run of the shillings that the community puts on for education. In addition, the public is forced to make large sums available for supervision and control. As is well known, the Riksrevision has made strong comments on the department's lack of control and follow-up of the decision-making system. In view of this, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs of the EEA has also come up with criticism. So concretely to the proposals in the proposition: the central party is happy that the government is trying to streamline the laws through the bill, so that dirt holes are tight, and that it is going to be harder to bypass the intentions of the laws. At the same time, we are somewhat uncertain as to whether the laws go far enough to prevent creativity and complicated corporate structures from still trying to circumvent the ban on taking profits from private high schools. This is a complex case, with legal technicalities, so I want to refer to the setting and comments of the party for additional comments on the various elements of the bill. In short: in the proposition, the government maintains the proposal that private providers of higher education and vocational schools should be organised as a limited liability company or a foundation. Since most private providers are already organised as an AS or a foundation, the Centre cannot see that the proposal will involve any real change in ensuring that the taxpayer's shillings and the student's own payments will benefit the students and will not be taken out in private profits or profits. I refer here to the setting and the proposal made by the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party to make a model that only allows self-owning foundations. The centre party is pleased that the government turned around and opened up for an exception, so that the two existing academic spheres run by the AOF and the National University can continue to operate without separating the academic activities of an own AS or a foundation. When it concerns the regulation of distributions from companies that do not receive State aid, I refer here to the setting, where the central party supports what is called option 1 in the proposition. The alternative involves regulation in which it is still possible to operate accredited and non-accredited education in the same legal entity, but with a prohibition of distribution for the accredited part of the enterprise. I also refer to the two proposals made by Mr Aasen in his speech, which are joint proposals by the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e392	Given the rather heated climate of debate in general around welfare gains in Norwegian politics during the day, it is alarming – and very positive – that the Stortinget is initially as united as we are about the desire that the tax money and the student's own payment should benefit students and not go to profit for commercial companies. Then you can think a little bit about why some parties think that this principle is very important in colleges and schools, but not important when we're talking about kindergartens or babysitting. But I'm probably going to have plenty of opportunity to discuss that with the right side of months to come. The Swedish Minister of Knowledge set up an expert group to examine the grant and self-payment legislation for private colleges and colleges, and we have had several examples of why such a review is necessary in recent years. The background was serious. In recent years, there have been a number of cases in which private schools and colleges have had to pay back state subsidies after supervision has revealed that school owners have made various profits, contrary to the law. The expert group examined and made recommendations on how the law could be clarified and strengthened to ensure that the public grants and student money actually benefited the students. I think it was laid a good foundation for the legal work. I am glad that the government is following up some of that, but I also believe that the government is not going far enough. It is necessary to make sure that we are even better to make sure that all the money actually goes to what is intended. In this respect, I can refer to a draft representative, Document 8:87 for 2015-2016, as representatives from SV promoted before the summer of last year. And I'm glad that we have with us both the Labour Party and the Center Party on a similar proposal today, where we ask the government to make a legislative change that requires private schools and colleges to be organized as self-ownership foundations. This is not a more radical proposal than that it is in Denmark, the bourgeoisly overthrown Denmark. So those who had to try to create a picture of this as some kind of extra left-hand proposal, get to take a phone call to Lars Løkke Rasmussen and hear why he's for it. Just two weeks ago, a former member of the Swedish Riksdagen, Anne-Marie Pålsson, who has been sitting there for the Moderates, the Right Sister Party, here at Stortinget. She was concerned that the debate on profit in welfare should just be more about the role of limited liability companies, because it is the companies that often make sure that money that would otherwise be in the company would be in school, in different ways that are going on as profit, for example. through complex egg structures. The purpose of the limited liability company, she thought, was to protect capital and not the enterprise, the employees or the ideals of the welfare state. Therefore, I think it would be interesting if we could have had such an investigation around the benefits of the Danish model, which is a much safer and more unbureaucratic way of preventing money from disappearing from the sector. Nevertheless, it is positive that the Minister of Knowledge finally promotes a legislative proposal on tightening up, and even if the law does not go far enough, it is good that the government recognizes the problem and that the challenges are taken seriously. So it's hard to understand the distance between the principles of government in this debate and the fierce resistance to using the same principles when we talk about kindergartens or child protection. There is in total a complete outrincipal view of the right-hand side of this – where it is very important and a question of values to avoid profit in school and college, but it is very important to have it for the younger children. SV, together with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, promotes a proposal that limits the possibilities for distribution, including for private colleges that do not receive government grants but are accredited by NOKUT. This option implies a regulation whereby accredited and non-accredited training in the same legal entity should continue to be provided, but with a ban on the distribution of the accredited part of the activity. This is an alternative that has been supported by several teams – LO, the Staten Loan Fund for Education, the Fachskolestudenten and the Norwegian Fag- og Friskolers Landsförbund.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e411	The hill of agriculture and rural development is one — I would say — tiny private college located on the Jären. It is organised as a cooperative and is among those colleges that now need to adapt to the new legislation to organise themselves either as a foundation or as a limited liability company. It was commented on here earlier that there are not so many reactions that we require it to be either a corporation or a foundation. Of course, most people have organized themselves like this already today, and it's clear that the big crowds out there obviously won't react to it. So here we have a small college that needs to make – for them – big changes in its organisation. What is important, and I'm glad that the government is also adding up, is that there are good transitional arrangements, and that there are liberal and rusty transitional arrangements, so that these schools are actually able to cope with it shifted. Because the smaller the school, the smaller the resources they have. It is not that the High School of Agriculture and Rural Development on the Jären has a legal department that can sit and organise this for them. I'm a little busy addressing here too: when this is going to happen, we have to make sure that they can actually get it done. We fully agree that it is good that there are some constraints now, because we have seen some examples that money that is either paid by the public or by the students themselves has been spent in a way that is not right. But then it's important to remember that most people spend their money on the school they run. Most people want to provide a good education offer, and they spend the money they receive to strengthen the educational provision and research they carry out. Then it may seem a little strange for schools like the High School of Agriculture and Rural Development that we suddenly make such strict demands that we suspect them in a way – suspecting them not to spend the money on the best interests of students and employees. Now I haven't gone through their papers, so I can't do anything good for them, but it's my definite impression that they're doing a good job for the students they have. They are researching and contributing to the social debate with what they have to contribute. I think it has value for our society that we have a diversity of schools. Now I spend a lot of time talking about this one school, but I think it illustrates that there's a diversity here. And they're a little school, it's not natural for them to join anyone else. There are not so many who are involved in agriculture and rural development in the country in general or in Rogaland where they are. I really believe that it is important that we make rules and systems that are simple to deal with, so that we do not make it too difficult for such actors to be in the market and operate with what they do, because I think it is a positive contribution, and they give us a diversity. In any case, we in the Left appreciate that we have that diversity in this sector as well. We support the majority of the committee and think it is sensible to tighten it up, but we place great emphasis on the need to make the transitional arrangements real to those concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e428	The government is promoting proposals for changes to the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Vocational Education – but everyone in the Chamber already knew that, that's why we're here. The changes in the rules relate to private and specialised schools, and the central purpose of the proposals is to clarify the requirements for the use of grants and self-payment by private institutions. The aim is to facilitate more transparency and to ensure better supervision and control of compliance. The government’s starting point is that private colleges and specialised schools are important contributors to the overall national education provision. They complement the provision of public education in important areas, create freedom of choice and alternatives. Through the accreditation and recognition of the NOKUT, private institutions are also offered part of the national training offer. A number of private colleges and colleges receive government grants, and all institutions can also make their own payments from the students. As a result, there is a need to impose certain requirements on institutions. The Ministry of Knowledge has overall responsibility for training courses approved or accredited by NOKUT and the Ministry has special responsibility for the use of State grants in line with the budget decision of the Stortinge and the legal requirements. I believe that the legislation on how private colleges and colleges should make State grants and self-payment they receive from the students is not clear enough today. Nor does it provide sufficient information on the real requirements for the disposal of the funds. The Government’s proposal for new legislation relating to the use of State grants and self-payment will make the legislation clearer. This applies to the framework for the legal use of the funds in operation and the possibility of distribution. The Government proposes to require the use of grants and own-payments for accredited education and for the purposes of the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Vocational Education respectively. This means that the funds are to be used for purposes which build up the approved training courses. Today, there is a ban on distribution for educational institutions receiving government grants. The Government proposes that this prohibition be maintained and clarified. It is a fundamental requirement that grants be used for the purpose for which the Storting has granted them. For institutions that do not receive grants, we suggest that a positive annual profit or loss may be taken out as distribution, but equity must not be lower than 20 pst. of the assets in the business. I would like to stress that the other regulations in the proposal will also apply in full to institutions without subsidies. This means that any funds withdrawn shall be fully transparent and shall be disclosed in the annual accounts of the activities. The Government proposes to require private colleges and specialised schools to be organised as foundations or limited liability companies. This will result in all educational institutions having a regulated form of organisation with rules on, among others. accounting, auditing and regulatory board requirements. Nevertheless, the Government proposes that the two study associations currently offering vocational school education should continue to be able to offer this in an existing organisational form. For the few institutions that need to be transformed as a result of reorganization into a limited liability company or foundation, we propose a transitional arrangement aimed at ensuring that these do not suffer as compared to other institutions. The government proposes that businesses have to have an economic distinction between accredited and, where appropriate, accredited. other activities carried out in the same legal entity. This can be achieved by organising all accredited training courses in a separate legal entity or by providing satisfactory accounting separations. We propose that specific requirements be met for trade with related persons, including a special obligation to document all trade with related persons, and that it be done on market terms. The proposals also contain clear requirements for documentation, reporting, accounting, clearer regulation of the responsibilities of the board and regulation of matters such as sales and transformations. Overall, I believe that the proposals contribute to a good and clear regulatory framework. Clear expectations are expressed as to the use of government grants and own-payments by institutions and as to the need for evidence of their use in line with requirements. The proposal is based on the fact that legislation is not to interfere unnecessarily with the activities of private institutions, but at the same time ensures that supervisory authorities have sufficient evidence and means to exercise effective and robust control. I agree with the Committee that legislation should not prevent serious actors from developing their education and training, and I believe that the proposal imposes no more obligations on institutions than is necessary for the Ministry to exercise supervision and verify compliance. In addition, a separate supervisory unit has been set up in the Ministry of Knowledge to gain control of this. In summary, I would like to stress that the legislative changes will contribute to clearer regulation, greater transparency, better control of grants and that the self-payment will be made in line with the legislation. The legislative proposal will help to strengthen the quality of education and contribute to the professional and predictable functioning of institutions. With these proposals, the government wants to facilitate sound operation, clear responsibilities and transparency in the economy and activities of private colleges and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e452	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e457	I have a pretty simple question. I wonder why the government and government parties do not agree to change the law that foundations should only be allowed, according to the Danish model.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e462	The government parties have to answer as to why they have not been involved, but I can say something about why the government has not wanted it. It's because it can also be with a foundation model where it can be more difficult to control a foundation. It is not that a foundation, even if it is self-employed, guarantees that it does not get any kind of abuse of the arrangements, for example. through major fees. In addition, there will be a very extensive change in a sector where there are today many limited liability companies. That is the starting point for saying that we want a regulation of the form of ownership, but also to open up to a limited liability company.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e467	Yes, the Council of State was inside for some of the reasons – possibly – for such a model. Then at least the Workers' Party would think that it would be an advantage to get this really figured out, not just to take it in a line change. But the situation that has now shown itself, especially with the Westerdals case, is that you get on your heels easily. It requires a very competent and ongoing bureaucracy of a certain size in order to be able to accompany the actors in that sector. It is as the representative Lysbakken said earlier here: there is a broad consensus that we will not have benefited from the state-aided schools that are NOKUT-accredited. We want that money to be spent on the students. Then my question is: shouldn't it be of interest to the Council of State to find ways to organise it to avoid a large and comprehensive bureaucracy? Or does he think that we're now in goal, and that we don't want to see any more types of scandals, as we've seen?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e472	It can never be guaranteed that legislation will prevent any attempt to abuse it. But what we can do is set up the system so that there is the greatest possible chance of compliance, that it is easy to verify, and that the department has organised itself so that there are clear responsibilities. Then I don't think about my responsibility towards Stortinget, I think, for example. that we have now set up a separate supervisory unit in the ministry. The Westerdals case, as several mentioned, showed, was that there was a case that had the aspect of facilitating dividends, in itself. But also several other issues that stretched far back in time, showed that the oversight system had not been good enough over several years – otherwise perhaps also that there were uncertainties in the legislation that made matters more difficult than they had had to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e480	Now the representative of Aasen had such good lines that she took most of what I was going to ask about. Perhaps we should not be so surprised that the government parties reject our good proposal to investigate a less bureaucratic system in the light of the strong contribution this government has made to general growth in the number of bureaucrats. Enough about that. Then I'll ask you something else. I would like to drill a little bit in principle the minister of knowledge uses, because he is a man who is concerned with ideology and principles. Can the Council of State explain to me the principle reason that government parties are against profit in colleges and schools, but for kindergartens and child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e489	There's no principle justification for that. That it should be so terribly difficult for the Socialist Left to understand what is exactly the same policy that SV stood for in government, is a little bit more funny. If you want to find some kind of reason for that, you can, for example: go to him who is often called the father of conservatism, Edmund Burke, the Irish-English statesman, who says that circumstances that some people take for granted really give any political principle its distinctive color. The difference, which is quite crucial, is that when SV was in government – both before and after – it was a kindergarten settlement, where private kindergartens were invited to participate in what was called a dugnad. Some years later, when the private had contributed and invested capital, one comes and has to cut. We've never had that kind of invitation to private colleges. It is SV who have changed policies on this issue and gone far, far to the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e496	It was interesting that the Council of State quoted Burke. Thank you for that. But just circumstances are something that can make you have to change politics. What we see in the kindergarten sector, and as we would see in the school sector if not the majority of the Stortinget – the whole of the Stortinget – had stood for the kind of sensible policy that we are all about today, is a development towards ever-increasing units and thus also greater danger, not only profit, but super-profit in, for example. the childcare and childcare sectors. I guess the right has not asked for a situation there, for example. buying-in funds may subsequently hold a very large number of kindergartens with the possibility of making very large profits. Or is it unproblematic?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e503	Now kindergarten isn't a topic now, but if you look at the total dividend taken from Norwegian kindergartens, it's not very much compared to most other industries and places. It is absolutely right that there is an important fundamental difference between the Socialist Left Party and the Government. It is that SV has as its starting point that any private operation of services for which the government pays is almost an abomination. You call people who have invested savings and time in building up kindergartens after an invitation from, among other things. SV, for welfare professionals. I have even seen, quite rightly not representatives of the party on the Stortinget, but others, call them some kind of parasites in the welfare state. Our starting point as government is that we should have clear, good rules for private contributions to the welfare of Norway to be positive and good, that private contributions lead to diversity and freedom of choice. And then we live with that it's not a whole principle policy that says that either everyone should have the opportunity to take dividends, or then no one should have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e510	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e528	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to government representatives. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e537	First, I would like to thank the proposers for putting such an important and highly topical issue on the agenda. I would also like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation through the process. The digitization is over us with full force. There are higher requirements and other requirements for us now than they were before. Digitalisation is an important part of all professions, and it is an important part of everyday life. The professions that used to be manual are now about programming a computer to get a robot to do the tasks. What we used to do at home is becoming more and more automatic – from alarm systems to light and heat – everything is digitized and requires other things of us now than it did before. Digital skills are no longer just a few needed, or just a few have, that's something that's important to everyone in our society. We in the Left are pleased that the government has started work on a strategy for digitisation in school. At the same time, we believe that we cannot just sit and wait for the government to come along with it, and that is why we have also made some proposals in this document. I'd like to address the suggestions that the Left is behind. Several of the proposals deal with digital learning materials and tools. We know today that there are great differences out in School Norway. There is different access to equipment. While some schools have chosen to bet heavily on this, there are other schools we hear stories from that they have a data room where half of the machines work, and the students have access to a couple of hours a week. So there's a lot of difference in the starting point on which our students get knowledge of this. There is also a variation in how ICT is used as a educational tool. To look at a computer as if it were pencil and paper is something other than using it as a educational tool, and there we still have a piece to go. I want to link a few words to NDLA, because NDLA is something that is still coming up in this debate, and that is a little bit difficult to deal with and do with. But many people point out that NDLA is an actor that limits school diversity. There are many opinions about NDLA; some have very positive experiences; some do not have very positive experiences. The Committee has received input from both sides, to put it that way, but I am pleased that the Committee has agreed on a comment that shows that there is a need to take a closer look at the challenges associated with the NDLA. Because we agree that we want diversity, and we want educational freedom of choice, and we need to look at how we can achieve it. Not very long ago, as the Council of State is well aware, some students in Rogaland experienced access to other students' user accounts in IT. This error lasted several hours. It shows a little how the privacy challenges are present all the way. It is not that if you are a student at a school, you can choose whether you want to use these digital tools or what platforms you want to use. Everything suggests that it was the Rogaland County Municipality itself that had a problem, but there is something about these students being forced into this, and we have a responsibility for their privacy being properly protected. It is important to focus on this, because it will be a challenge for the development of privacy. Finally, I would like to make a few brief comments on this comment on the organisation of the ICT Centre. The left is not part of that remark because we see it as natural that the Council of State itself decides how to organize his own people and his own establishment, but I want to strongly express that it is important that this is an area that is not fragmented or powdered. This is an area we need to focus on and press forward. So no matter what the Council of State chooses to do, I'll encourage him to be clear that what's about digitisation and ICT in school is so important, and it's too important to be powdered and fragmented.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e556	The representative Iselin Nybø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e561	When I – well to notice a few years after the Council of State – started in the 1st class at the Battle School in Porsgrund, we didn't have a computer in the classroom. Miss Arnhild didn't teach us what e-mail was for anything. In other words, a lot has happened crazy since 1992. Schools shall deal with a rapidly changing society. This does not mean that the school should be uplifted to all trends, but we can well establish that the data has come to be – and for some opportunities it provides in our sector! The working party wants students to be able to use as well as create digital content and services. If we're going to do that, we're going to need an offensive investment in ICT and digital skills. That is why we have promoted the proposal we are considering today. The status in 2017 is that there is too much variation and too many coincidences: the randomness of the updated equipment park in schools, the random competence of school staff, the random use of ICT and digital aids in the various disciplines. That's not good enough. Being able to handle and use various digital tools is one of the basic skills in school. It shall permeate all subjects. It provides a unique opportunity for adapted training. We need to minimise differences and inequalities and make better use of the potential. Therefore, the Workers' Party wants such a strategy to include proposals for a national initiative on both the development of software, a competence development plan for teachers, a commitment to infrastructure and proposals for a procurement scheme for digital learning material. As far as our alternative state budget is concerned, we have been preparing the basis for this throughout this period of growth by spending money on, among other things. the enhancement of the competence of teachers. In September, I visited Lunde Kinderschule in Skien and saw how they worked with ICT and digitisation there. The school had achieved the balance between what we can call analog and digital school in a good way. The students had both draft books and iPad. I draw up this example to stress that a commitment to digital learning materials in school does not have to mean either – or – either the pencil or the iPad. The working party believes that the potential is fully triggered when you take the best from both worlds and think both- and. At Lunde Kinderschule they also arranged voluntary code courses for students. Coding promotes creativity, teaches people to cooperate, and there can be drawn many parallels to, among other things. the real subjects. Today, some students have experience in programming and coding through courses such as: What they have at Lunde School. The working party wants more students to have experience in programming during school. If a commitment to ICT and digital aids is to be fully effective, we need some organizers, some coordinators, and those who translate knowledge and innovative experiences. ICT centres were established by the Stoltenberg government to this end. Like many hearing bodies representing the users of the Centre, we are critical of the proposal of the Gedrem Committee that the Centre should cease to be its own centre and be placed under the Directorate of Education. We are concerned that this could lead to a pulverisation of the trade union environment and go beyond the work that the centre does, from both Oslo and Tromsø. We don't want to recommend such a solution. This has become a document with relatively many proposals. Some do not want the Storting to adopt anything, such as the government parties, and some want the Storing to adopt quite a lot and have many detailed proposals. The working party wishes a decision today which clearly states that a national strategy must at least address software development, competence, equipment, infrastructure and purchasing systems. The working party does not want a strategy that is easy to put in a drawer. We want a strategy that means bet, that makes us move on. We could call it a stepping-up plan. I bring up the proposals that the Workers' Party, together with the Socialist Left Party, is behind in the position, hoping for a majority, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e580	The representative Christian Thinning Bjørnø has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e585	There's a lot of good things in school, but one of the challenges is that we can't mobilize all the power that we know the students have in them. There's too many students who can't get out of school, and there's too many who lose motivation and drop out of high school. It's also, unfortunately, that the school can't even out social differences. In addition to solving these challenges, we need to make sure that students are able to meet a future that we don't know exactly what it looks like. Therefore, it is good that the Minister of Knowledge makes changes and adjusts the course to get a better school. This is addressed in the main message about the content of the school, which we debated in the autumn, and we have recently received a new big business message from the government that is more specific about early school work and quality. But the proposal we are discussing here today is how we can strengthen the work of digitisation in school. I listened to the radio today early that the manager of Google Norway expressed concern about the digital competence of companies, and especially the management of Norwegian companies – and that is thought-provoking. Digital development is very fast, and what you learn one day can be passé already the next. Information and communication technologies – or ICT, as it is called – give us enormous opportunities, and it is therefore very important that we provide good training from the very first day of school. However, this involves several things. We need competent teachers, we need physical infrastructure, and we need to know how we use digital tools in training. Already in 2006, digital skills were defined as one of five basic skills, but in the digital world very much has happened in the 11 years. A lot of positive has also been done in view of this in Norwegian school, and it is doing a lot of good to strengthen the work on ICT in the school. At the same time, we know that we can get so much better. Therefore, it is very good to know that the Minister of Knowledge is now working on a national strategy for ICT in school. I want to draw a good example here from Oslo. In the autumn of 2015, I joined the school office at the opening of Teglverket School. In a split new school, they had ambitions to exploit the digital possibilities of their educational work. They have succeeded, and this year they received the Innovation Prize for their work. They have a clear strategy on everything from digital competence to parental and school cooperation. Learning is at the centre, not technology, but, at the same time, ICT tools are always used as a central tool in the learning process. The school has been betting on the use of tablet boards from the very start, and they use it in all subjects. They have also used software units in education and in activity schools. It is an overall commitment with anchoring in the school management, where the entire college is involved. Among other things, they have a joint MOOC on school-based assessment for learning. But if we're going to look at the whole Norwegian school, it's not as good. The ICILS International Survey of 2013 showed that only 8 pst. by Norwegian secondary school students use computers on a daily basis, while 75 pst. by the students, do it at home. Monitor 2016 expresses concern that a wide variety of digital maturity between schools may lead to a threat to the principle of equivalent training. These and other challenges – such as the competence of teachers, the content of teacher training, physical infrastructure and how we provide a good digital educational market – I expect a national strategy to address. Recently, there has been a debate on the actors offering digital learning material. New actors find it difficult to establish between the NDLA and the established publishers. I think it's worrying if NDLA limits the school's educational freedom of choice. We depend on competition on a level playing field to stimulate innovation in the educational media market, in order to provide schools with more tools to choose between. This is why it is particularly important that the ICT strategy also addresses the challenge we face in the digital education market. I think we need to look at how we can equate digital and analogue learning materials, and an important task in the new ICT strategy should be to facilitate it. The digital development we witness and live in offers many new opportunities, but we also need to acquire the skills to exploit all the great opportunities. That is why it is good that the Minister of Knowledge now enters this terrain and presents a national strategy to raise ICT in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e608	It is a major and important theme that has been addressed in this proposal. We in the Progress Party believe that much in this proposal is useful to discuss, not least given that the government will present a new strategy for digitisation in school during 2017. This strategy is developed in dialogue with key actors and takes into account the development and quality of digital learning materials, the need for teacher empowerment and digital infrastructure. When the government started working on the strategy, State Councillor Torbjørn Røe Isaksen said: ‘We want to understand how we can better use technological solutions to help students learn more’. That is what we in the Progress Party think is a wise approach. Much of the strategy will be based on input from the main actors, so that they can both point to what is considered to be the main challenges and make suggestions on how to address them best. The strategy will also clarify what should be the role of the State in the future, and what should be the responsibility of the school owner, in order to provide schools with a robust and user-friendly infrastructure. It will also clarify how the state, school owners, publishers and the edtech industry can best cooperate to obtain high-quality digital learning materials for practical use and use in school. Not least, this work shall provide the basis for students to acquire appropriate skills and skills consistent with the society and the labour market in which they are to be active citizens of society. I would like to point out that there is a difficult balance in this area. We know that Norwegian school has a great potential for improvement, not least in the real world, but many also struggle with reading and understanding. To solve this, priority must be given to this, and we politicians must not fall for the temptation to impose even more tasks and resource-intensive reforms on schools. Students and teachers must not be given ‘digital competence’ step down their heads. At the same time, we need to recognise the school's role in facilitating students to acquire digital skills and develop and maintain them right after finishing school. It is very important for the Progress Party that the development of digital learning materials should be free and natural. The school’s choice of teaching material shall be guided by the needs of the school and the pupils and decided locally. Measures need to be considered here to improve the teacher’s skills and ability to assess and choose digital learning materials. The recently launched web portal minfeide.no will be an important tool for the further use of digital learning materials in Norway. In the context of a new strategy for the digitisation of schools, the Progress Party also hopes to remember the inclusion of universal use and design, which will ensure users with different forms of disability the ability to make use of both learning platforms and other digital learning materials. Finally, I would like to mention that it is very positive that the Centres for ICT in education have developed the ICT web portal in practice. Here, all teachers can put in teaching arrangements and share experiences with digital learning materials and education in school. Sharing culture and increased skills of teachers in digital learning will be an important tool for ensuring good and varied education in the future school. In the future, it will be important to ensure that all teachers have a well-developed professional digital competence and that the digital learning materials to be used are of high quality in all disciplines. The Progress Party is pleased that the government has already started work on a new strategy for digitisation in school, and looks forward to the presentation of this strategy during 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e634	Thus, when the Labour Party promotes a simple proposal for a strategy for digitisation in school and a review of the situation, the Education Committee responds with a 20-page attitude. There is no doubt that this is a topic that concerns the Committee. It was supposed to be missing, too. The world is changing rapidly, and the digital revolution has been over us for many years already. Digital skills and competences are becoming more and more important in the workplace and in everyday life for people. Then it is important that the school is also involved in development. Maybe it should have been that the school was completely in front, but we probably can't say that's the situation yet. On the contrary, there is a lot of evidence that the school has been hanging a little after. And although digital skills were defined as a basic skill in the Knowledge promise from 2006, we see that there are considerable variations from school to school in terms of both access to equipment, competence and time use. For the school to be able to hang out with, and for us to succeed in providing students with good digital skills, it is essential to have teachers with solid digital skills. It is therefore important that ICT skills are included in all subjects of teacher training. In addition, it is important that the school has access to digital learning materials and that these tools are used. These are tools that provide enormous opportunities, and it's not just about giving students digital skills. It is also about facilitating new ways of teaching and new ways of learning, which also has a bearing on how students take on different types of knowledge. In the market, we find an exciting diversity of learning materials that can make it possible for teachers to teach in new ways, which can make it easier for students to give feedback on the way, which can facilitate the organisation of their work, and which can facilitate the provision of adapted training to their pupils. It's at all a wealth of opportunities, and then it's our job as school politicians to make sure that we have teachers who have the skills to use these resources, and that the school has access and opportunity to take advantage of the opportunities that exist. It is also important that these resources are actually developed. Then we have to facilitate further development in the EDtech industry. This industry needs to develop freely, and then decisions on procurement must be taken locally, based on local assessments and local needs. We have seen different initiatives in recent years to improve access to digital learning material. Minfeide.no is a good response, which is both an exhibition window and a common access portal for educational resources according to the individual municipality and the school’s procurement of access. We see that municipalities and schools have a piece left to go in terms of purchasing skills, and we have to make sure that we do not stagger in old patterns and traditional choices of learning materials. Pedagogical assessments must form the basis for the choices made. The Christian People's Party believes it is necessary to review the incentive system and the purchasing system for teaching materials, with the aim of increasing the level of non-discrimination between digital and analogue learning materials, and we, together with the Left, promote proposals for such a review. The Minister of Knowledge has announced that the government will present a comprehensive strategy for digitisation in school during 2017. I'm glad. I think we need that. And then I hope we see an offensive and ambitious minister of knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e651	Digital services and digital tools are today so self-evident elements in our lives, both private and professional, that we almost don't think about it. Most of us have the computer or phone as the most important work tools, but also those that mainly use more traditional tools depend on working electronically and digitally when it comes to ordering parts and goods and contacting customers and beyond. Keeping up-to-date digital is a matter of course and a self-evident part of the working day, and developments are accelerating. Unfortunately, this is not the case when it concerns the school and the working day of students and teachers. As can be seen from the studies referred to in the option, the digital status varies greatly from school to school. There are schools where both the technical equipment and the digital competence of the teacher are up-to-date, forward-looking and of good quality. Unfortunately, there are many more examples of the opposite, but in most schools, the situation may be somewhere in the middle. It is also alarming that one points out that it is a long way to go before the skill measurements in the curriculum are taken care of, and that this applies to the competence of both the student and the teacher. When studies show that Norwegian elephants have digital competences that are below the OECD average and that they acquire competence primarily in leisure time and not through school, it is worrying. When we know at the same time that students have different intentions to use digital tools at home, there should also be a warning light that there is a difference between the elephants based on social differences that the school should have erased. Digitalisation in the school provided anchoring, guidance and holistic organisational development work. Therefore, digitisation in the school is also a leadership responsibility. If the school is to succeed in using digital tools in teaching, it must work systematically. The choice of hardware and the number of PCs is not central, but the way teachers and elephants are able to make use of the possibilities offered by technology. I understand from the setting that there is a broad consensus about both the needs, the alignment and the need to get a holistic, systematic thinking about the digitisation work in the school. The central party therefore supports an order that the government must submit to the Stortinget a national strategy for digitisation in school. When we make an own proposal about this, it comes about that we find it unfortunate to define in detail what such a strategy should contain – an order that is difficult to empty before the status has been reviewed and the need has been further addressed. Although the Central Party sees the need for a national strategy with common national guidelines, it is also necessary that the strategy does not end up as a coercion where school priorities and local needs are subjugated and overrun. Therefore, the requirements must not in practice undermine the teacher's freedom of method and good local solutions. Digital tools and working methods are important for everyone, but provide an added bonus for those who have challenges in school. Teachers and schoolteachers can tell stories about boys who had previously refused the Norwegian subject, who now produce a lot of text by using PC. Every time there are problems with reading and writing problems, there is also more student work than they would otherwise do. The centre party believes that it is wise to work on the strategy to include Statped and, where appropriate, other relevant professional environments with a high level of competence before training children and young people with special needs, as suggested in the setting. The same also applies to measures that ensure that the student's privacy and ownership of personal data are well cared for in a more digitised school day. That digital working methods are a positive thing is a fact, but computers can also be a time thief if they don't work. Tools must work, one must upgrade and update them, but it has also provided broadband coverage with sufficient speed for all schools and households. Unfortunately, this is not the case today, which is a major disadvantage for the elephants and their ability to use digital learning material, so it also needs to be further challenged with the digitisation tool. I'm taking up the proposal from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e670	The representative Ivar Odnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e677	Let me first give tribute to the rapporteurs from the Labour Party for an important proposal. SV's goal is a school where children with different backgrounds have equal opportunities to succeed, a school that doesn't give up a single child, a school that can help balance the great inequality in power and wealth that is still in our society. If we're going to get to that, we need a school that becomes more practical and varied than today, that takes seriously the different ways kids learn, and the different assumptions kids come to school with. Digital learning resources can contribute to such a school. The new technology offers opportunities for adaptation and support that can increase mastering, increase learning outcomes and also increase inclusion. Three out of four students receiving special education today get it outside the classroom. In new and generally available technologies, the possibilities for individual adaptation are great. It increases the possibility of everyone participating on the same platform with the same tools, but with different arrangements. When the teacher sees and understands how the same tool can be adapted and used differently for different students, she has expanded her repertoire for inclusion. It is precisely in the possibilities of differentiation and customization that this with digital tools has its great advantage. Technology alone does not create inclusion and learning, but it can provide us with useful tools that provide completely new opportunities to adapt teaching to the needs of each child. Experience and research show that children and young people with special needs may therefore be those who benefit most from technology organisation. But then the challenge is that the knowledge among our teachers about how to exploit these opportunities is far too low today. Technological developments are moving rapidly. There is an ever-increasing flood of new digital tools and solutions, and in school there is a capacity problem, where it will be difficult to get an overview, monitor and acquire expertise in methodology and use. Although Norway is well placed at international level in terms of technological investment in the school system, there is a lack of competence in the educational use of technology. Today, there is a wide variety of digital opportunities in ordinary tools such as tablets, PCs, apps, smart clocks, common applications – the threshold is being reduced. But all students can use the same tools differently and with different arrangements. This is also how digital tools become inclusion tools. There is a need for a strategic effort that takes seriously the fact that technology and digital opportunities can create a whole new learning situation for all students. A new digital time has created completely new opportunities for us, but the skills and opportunities to use the technology are lacking. SV believes that Statped should be an important partner in this work and, together with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Left, we have therefore proposed that Statped and other relevant highly skilled professional environments in the training of children and young people with special needs be included in the development of a national strategy. That strategy should include concrete measures on how digital learning resources and new technologies can contribute to inclusive and well-adapted training for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e696	As I said, the government is now working on an ICT strategy for initial training to be completed in the summer/harvest 2017. The ICT strategy has three main areas: competence, content and infrastructure. High quality in these areas is a prerequisite for good school digitisation. Many schools and municipalities have come a long way in exploiting the opportunities offered by digitisation, but we still face challenges such as: large differences between schools and municipalities in all three of these areas. Perhaps the most important thing to bet on is professional digital competence of school staff. ICT is a prerequisite for contributing to better and more effective learning. Greater adapted training requires teachers who can take advantage of the opportunities offered by digitisation. At the same time, it is important to maintain that the teacher has to have the educational and professional authority, even in so-called heavy-tech classrooms. The framework plan for new teacher training from autumn 2017 requires the teacher candidate for professional digital competence. So basic training for teachers is to be strengthened in this area. At the same time, we also need continuing training in professional digital competence. Continuing training shall provide key elements of the Knowledge Commitment, including the use of ICT in the fields. In terms of content, students need to acquire digital competence for further study and participation in an increasingly digitised working and social life. It was also one of the reasons why digital competence became a basic skill in the Knowledge Lift. Through the renewal of the Report follow-up. St. 28 for 2015–2016 we will look at how we can further develop the digital skills of students, both as basic skills and in individual subjects. Digital learning materials shall be of high quality and exploit the potential of technology, with interactive, individualised and learning analysis options. We also need to facilitate a well-functioning market, and we are now considering the continuation and extension of existing grant schemes to stimulate the development of innovative and digital learning materials. A state portal for Norwegian and foreign-produced digital learning materials, as proposed, I see it as a little topical solution. Such a portal would be very easy to see as a reintroduction of the educational approval system, which was abolished in 2000. In the case of infrastructure, studies have shown differences between schools and municipalities. A functioning ICT infrastructure is and must be the responsibility of the school owners. At the same time, national teams can facilitate standards, guidelines, information and guidance in this field. It provides a good basis for school owners to work with a well-functioning infrastructure. An example of this is Feide. The introduction of Feide provides municipalities with financial benefits while ensuring the protection of the privacy of students. Centres for ICT in education follow up the municipalities that have not yet implemented Feide, so that Feide will become the primary login solution for the conduct of examinations and national tests from the 2018/2019 school year. Another example is cloud services. Some school owners have already made use of the opportunities provided by cloud services, but there will also be a need to continue working on national joint solutions. Good use of digital tools in school requires a balance between well-functioning infrastructure, access to good learning materials and good teaching skills. Students will leave school with digital skills that enable them to succeed in further education, work and social participation. It will facilitate the future ICT strategy. Finally, just two words about the reorganisation and the project we have in the Ministry of Knowledge: there are three purposes of that reorganisation. One is that we should spend taxpayers' money in a good and efficient way. The second is that we need to have better services for the sector. The third is that we want to move skills jobs out of the capital to other areas of the country. It can easily be created – at least in one look-up in the media today – an impression that when the majority of the population have not joined the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre and their position that the Centres for ICT in education are not going to enter the Education Directorate, the Stortinget has thus decided the opposite, but that is not the case. As I perceive the majority of the population, it has not been decided that the centres for ICT in education should enter the Education Directorate. After all, we also heard the representative Nybø from the Left emphasis – perhaps it is to have an agnostic relationship with this, at least it is the government that organizes in the area of government – that it is not to be understood that it is a decision on the opposite. I would also like to stress that the decision on this has not been taken in the department either.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e724	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e729	«I think it has been a great and a little naive political enthusiasm for ICT in Norwegian schools the last decades.» This was said by the Council of State in 2015, having regard to the fact that the investment in ICT in school must not be made simply because it is ‘modern’. For the Workers' Party, enthusiasm is not about what is modern, but about ensuring safe use, source criticism, adapted training, technology competence, dissemination, teacher competence, etc. Is this naive? Does the government really think this is getting too much attention in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e744	If you read the entire interview with me, I stand by every word. My example was the big wave in the 1990s, when you were very busy buying laptops for the students. But what you were less concerned about was how the digital tools were used. And that's what matters. Although it is very wise in what the Workers' Party has written and suggested here, I think the Workers' Party is still hanging a little behind in a thought that this is only about equipment. For example, I saw the representative Giske out a while ago and said – it must be one of the most precious promises to the Workers' Party – that you have to buy the iPad for absolutely all students in the Norwegian school. My point is simply that if you don't also bring infrastructure and competence, not least, among those who teach, it's not necessarily learning promotion just to give an iPad to all students. The experience from all schools that have put a great deal of emphasis on digitalism is that you have to have school development and competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e753	The Workers' Party fully agrees with this with teachers' competence. That's exactly why we've proposed this in every state budget for this entire period of expansion and given money to increase the skills of the teachers in ICT, against the government's votes. I believe that the statement to the Council of State from 2015 at least does not stem from technology optimism. But now leave it. Nevertheless, the important thing is that we get a good, committed national strategy that helps to erase the coincidences in ICT spending in school. Denmark has implemented a commitment to both state, municipality and private actors, including with resources. What does the Council of State think about that initiative? And how does he want to ensure that a strategy not just becomes a bet with words, but actually means a real bet?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e762	I think there are two things that it's important to separate. One is digital skills such as digital skills, and the other is the use of digital tools in other disciplines to promote learning in the field. It can sometimes go into each other a little bit. For example, in mathematics, you're also, according to your curriculum goals, dependent on using digital tools. The reason why I think the two things have to be related to each other is that there's no evidence that increased digitisation increases students' learning. That's the good evidence for. It's hard to find that connection. Then I fully agree that a national ICT strategy must not just be words; one must also have concrete measures. Some of those measures may also cost money. This, of course, will come, if necessary, in future budgets. Then it is very good at the Danish bet. I'm probably a little skeptical that they've gone very far in rewarding the schools that invest in digital education rather than anything else. I think that the municipalities and the schools should be able to decide for themselves to a great extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e771	Although I have to admit that I don't always understand everything, I'm very excited about technology and the developments that are taking place. I'm a basic technology optimist and I'm looking forward to the future with everything that comes, whether everything we know comes, or what we think comes, or what we can't even imagine coming. But with this, there are some challenges, and many times it's the way technology is going in front of the rest of society, so we can't fully cope with legislation, privacy and everything that follows in the wake of development. In the Left, we're very concerned with privacy, and it's not to put a foothold on the fact that the digitisation of society and the developments we've had here also pose some pretty significant challenges on the privacy side. In particular, it is important to protect children and young people, so what I want to challenge the Council of States is to say something about what concrete challenges he sees on the privacy side – and the solutions he sees on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e778	It is probably almost by nature so that in very many areas the policy will follow. It's simply because evolution is going so incredibly fast. What is important then is to have general rules that allow new situations to be caught by the law, not to run by special regulation on a case-by-case basis. But then there are difficult issues, such as: is the great opportunity to collect information about the students, register it, use it. There are privacy restrictions today, for example: That you can't take it out of the institution, that's the individual school and that kind of thing. However, it may in some cases represent a data protection challenge. Filming in Norwegian classrooms: It's a huge advantage for a student who's sick, gone, like, for example. is in a hospital and is able to follow the instruction. Depending on how you store this afterwards, it can also give you privacy challenges. But it is fully possible to bet on both digital and privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e785	I agree with the Minister that it is not enough to secure digital tools in school – both infrastructure and competence must be ensured. Then the question is infrastructure, because here we know that there are many people who have missing and poor connections, especially in the world, but we also have some schools that are struggling with capacity. Of course, it's not within the responsibility of the Minister of Knowledge, but it's a government responsibility, so I'm looking to hear how the Council of State is now working against the special Minister of Transport and perhaps the Minister of Municipal Affairs to make sure that we have a digital highway out to everyone who lives in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e791	I have to admit that there is a question that I cannot answer. It is, as the representative says, the Ministry of Transport that is responsible for the development of digital infrastructure. There are also schemes and support schemes for the development of digital infrastructure, such as: grounded, in areas where it is not today, but I have not had my own meetings with my colleague in the Ministry of Transport about this. Then it is possible – I may have to come back to that in a written question or else. – that there are still some clear points of contact, but I am unable to answer on the standing foot.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e798	I think it's important to clarify in this field that digital tools actually contribute to universal design, that more people are now connected to the educational cycle, and that our students can actually benefit from it. Here I hope that the Minister of Knowledge will deal with this with his colleagues in the government, because now the development of digital tools and curricula within this is happening so quickly that I hope that it is not the infrastructure that stops it. There is still an urgent call for the Minister to follow up on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e803	I think I just have to register the request, and then I have to encourage the representative back: if he wants a slightly more thorough answer than the very little thorough answer I gave now, then I would like to ask a question in the Questionnaire – a written question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e808	He'll get it for the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e813	I take the floor because I react to the state councillor Torbjørn Røe Isaksen when he gets a question from the Workers' Party, in a familiar style starts talking about the Labour Party's policy and commenting on it. Of course, we're not just concerned with equipment, but equipment is very important when we're talking about information technology. After all, we need to have access to technological aids when this is what the subject is about. In this proposal, we are most concerned about just this with competence, so such – what we should say – a little polite comments when we ask questions, it would have been nice if he used another occasion for that. What I'm really asking is what the Council of State is going to say to its department. What is the order he's going to give about what this strategy is going to be about, from the Right? It's unclear.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e820	I try to answer the questions that come from all the representatives, but since the question in this case was also polemically formulated, I thought it was natural to use what I thought was one of the weaknesses of the Workers' Party. You have to admit that this is an area for debate, even when you ask questions. But I'm generally trying to answer the questions that are coming. The order that the Ministry has received from the government, which has also been partially followed up by the first meeting of the parties, is that we should have a strategy that is related – both to competence, infrastructure and content. To give an illustrative example: I was asked about Denmark here instead. In Denmark, things may suggest that much of the digital learning material purchased is a kind of digital textbook, for example. It is quite crucial and quite important that if you want to spend more money on digital learning, you buy something that benefits from being digital, not just textbooks in a different format.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e829	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e836	I knew myself very much again in the representative Iselin Nybø told about his enthusiasm as a technology optimist in this field, and the reason why I am is that a few years ago I was present at a school in Oppegård where there were multi-disabled children. There I met a girl between 13 and 14 years old. She had never been able to write before, never managed to communicate anything very well before. 14 days earlier she had got an iPad, and now she could write using the iPad. It was the first time she could put letters together and express herself more complicated than you can with sign language. It was when I really understood that this technology can change people's lives in a completely different way than with the tools that we've had available. I'm burning for all Norwegian children to have access to the kind of educational material that will give them a better schooling day, because there are many children in Norwegian school who don't experience the learning they should have, and the development they should have, simply because they are struggling and not getting enough access to digital learning material. I also want to use the time to say that I am very happy that the Committee agrees on a common remark regarding NDLA and this with the publishers and the market situation we have in Norwegian school as regards teaching materials. It is important that we ensure – and that the Council of State takes this into account – as part of the strategy that is now to be developed, that we analyse the market situation we have, where we have traditional players who have been in the textbook market for many, many years, who link textbooks and digital learning materials, and who are in the market, and then we have NDLA, which is a free service in higher education as the county councils stand for, and which is also in the market, but that the edtech companies also have a place here. I'm worried that in the current situation, we won't be able to achieve many of the goals we have, because this market situation creates locking mechanisms, as economists would call it. It's unfortunate, especially because it can simply go against the students that teachers can't freely choose the learning material they think is best in their field. They have to be able to do that – whether from publishers, NDLAs or edtech companies of different character – and it is our job to ensure that that market works. We're not going to make textbooks. We are not going to make decisions about what each school and individual teacher should use digital aids, but we have to make sure that the framework conditions are such that teachers can do what is best for the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e847	I'm happy for every reason we have in this room to address the topic of digitisation in school, and now I'm glad it's on the agenda again. Now the government is working on a national strategy, which we just heard the Minister of Knowledge tell, and that's good. If we're to succeed in providing our children with the training and quality of the school offering that will equip them for tomorrow's tasks, we obviously have to use the opportunities offered by the technology, and I think the representative of Aasen had a good illustrative example of new opportunities. I would like to point out three areas that are important and that must underpin the good implementation of digital technology in school. First of all, it is about the digital competence and learning vision of teachers. If this is not taken into account in teacher training, teachers do not prepare poorly when they enter the classroom. I am therefore very pleased that the Centres for ICT will work closely with the teacher training institutions to ensure professional digital competence and that it will be strengthened in the new teacher training. The second is, of course, about the school's digital infrastructure, both equipment and broadband coverage. And with myfeide.no, recently launched, School-Norway has taken a good step forward to facilitate an effective and digital school day, both for school owners, for teachers, for students and for parents. There have been several people involved. And it is also an important prerequisite for facilitating the availability of good educational materials and tools for students and teachers. Here we are at my third point. If we are to succeed in a good digital strategy, implement good technological solutions and develop a good culture for the use of digital tools and learning tools in our schools, we also need to facilitate the development of a stronger digital learning tool market. Schools and teachers – as the representative of Aasen was also involved – must have the freedom to choose the teaching tools that work best in teaching at all times, whether they are analogue or digital. And it's our job to ensure that the conditions of competition facilitate the production and development of good quality teaching materials in all formats. In the Right, we think it's best in competition, where the market works well. We believe that minfeide.no can provide even better opportunities and develop further, and that it has a greater potential as a common access portal for the making available of learning material. I hope there can come a next development phase here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e862	I want to insist that there is a lot of positive about digitisation in Norwegian school. In my home municipality, the municipality of Karmøy, municipal politicians systematically focus on ICT at school – and commend them for it. The Karmøy School has a project going on in collaboration with Richt AS on digital learning materials in the school. Through the use of iPad and coding in school and the provision of skills to teachers, both individually and through networking with the schools in the project, digitisation is systematically pursued. The teachers give very positive feedback from the schools that have used iPad in their teaching. They say they're saving time, and there's much greater seamlessness between digital and analogue work. There are far better opportunities for creative development, regardless of the subject. Students produce more text, pictures, movies and animations, and iPad raises weak students and provides increased challenges for strong students. With iPad as a tool, students receive training and quick feedback. iPad simplifies learning processes and lowers the threshold of knowledge. iPad is a very good personal learning tool, it is also claimed. This fully supports the description by Aasen of the impact of digital learning materials. Teachers also say that digital tools in school are about much more than digital competence. Students bloom because they find the way to learning joys. When students experience mastery, motivation increases. When they unfold on platforms that produce the expected effect, creativity and creativity are released. The result is significantly better focus, motivation and increased learning pressure. The teachers are very positive. The teachers who have attended a series of courses say that they have been on a fantastic journey that has opened up to think teaching in a more creative way, and that creates motivation and commitment for the teachers. The teachers point out that Richt AS shows us how to develop the practice, but they are clear that the Karmøy school itself has to do the job. They are also clear that they need to train a lot and build teams, both within schools and across schools, in order to achieve the goal of increased learning. So when schools are finished, they go into a network across schools with the goal of getting better together. This shows that, despite a lack of national ICT strategy, there is a great deal of positive both in Karmøy School and similar in many other schools in Norway. This is thanks to local politicians who rate, and not least committed teachers who also gain a strong ownership of their own developed ICT strategy. And I look forward to the government's ICT strategy, which I expect will take care of local involvement, ownership of increased digitisation, while showing offensive bets in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e875	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e891	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e900	I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. This is really a day of joy. Finally, we will formally adopt the development of the very heavily trafficked and very important highway between Hamar and Elverum – the main road for the lorry industry between Oslo and Trondheim. Users and those living along the road have waited a long time for this, so it's incredibly happy that we're finally getting started. The cabin tourists in one of Norway's largest ski resorts, Trysil, will also be able to enjoy getting a new, safe and nice four-field highway. In the afternoons and weekends the traffic is almost silent in continuous queues from Løten to Elverum, and this will now be significantly improved. Development of Rv. 3/rev. 25 Ommangsvollen-Grundset/Basthjørnet in Hedmark is an important strengthening of Rv. 3, in particular as a road link for freight transport between Oslo and Trondheim, and the expansion will also strengthen Hamar/Elverum as a good labour market region. The project will increase road safety and road safety, improve the living environment along the way of the day and provide a coherent range of services for walking and cycling between Hamar and Elverum. Detailed solution for new rv. 3/rev. 25 has been established through regulatory plans, approved by the Municipality of Løten and the municipality of Elverum in January and December 2012. I am not surprised if the opposition uses the opportunity to criticise the government by claiming that the project is delayed. In that case, it becomes a false claim. We're already doing a great job on the project. Northern timber is already in the final phase of deforestation of the line. The work on the release of measuring columns for the precision basis, further mapping and protrusion of the road project has already been under way since winter and will be completed in the spring of 2017. Redevelopment of the local road network at Ånestad in Løten and Grindalsmoen in Elverum as well as conversion of today's rv. 25 at the Teringmoen to the Four-Field Road is already starting in the summer of 2017 and the OPS contract is now being announced in the spring of 2017. The State Road Service has built and established a Construction Office in Ånestad, from which all this work and future OPS contract shall be managed. Here we are. Rv. 3 is constructed as a new road in one trajectory of the entire route. Rv. 25 are associated with the day's rv. 3 At the tower of Elverum, and all the new highways are built with walls. 16,5 km to be built as a quadruple, 10,5 km to be built as a two-field with a pass-by field. And today's highway, which is being recharged, is to be included as a future local road network. It would have been desirable to have a more consistent road standard than what is planned here. Several road standards are used in this project. It's a regular four-field, a narrow four-field, a two-/three-field, and also a little two-field. It's not a good solution, and it should of course be a more consistent standard. It is especially the distance of 3 km between Tønnet and Ommangsvollen where the traffic forecasts suggest that a four-field road should be built instead of a two-/three-field road. The right-hand Party Government has also implemented important changes such as the removal of a roundabout on the barrel and the replacement of it with a safe and safe level-free cross and the change of 100 km/h to 110 km/h. Finally, I would like to point out that tolls on the side roads are a poor solution. Our goal is lower bomb rates so you can get the same solution as on the E18 through Vestfold. By taking simple steps, such as a longer down payment period and using lower interest rates, in Westfold almost half the bomb charges were paid. Lower fares lead to less leakage to the side roads, and you do not have to put up any booms to dampen your leakage. This is also something that should be done on Rv. 3/rev. 25-digit number In this respect, I would like to praise the local council, the municipality of Elverum and the committee for wanting to bring down the bomb tariffs by increasing the amortisation period to 20 years and opening up market interest instead of artificially high interest rates. Such interventions will lead to a good reduction in the bombing rate in the 1930s, and the Progress Party is meeting a local initiative to ensure that market interest rates are also used here, at Rv. 3/rev. 25, as you do on the E18 through the Westfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e917	Let me first take the opportunity to thank the members of the Committee for their cooperation. The development of Rv. 3 and Rv. 25 in Hedmark is a long-term extension. There are probably a number of people in Hedmark who are now following the negotiations in Stortinget, and too many of them are a big day, so congratulations to everyone who has worked on this project for a long time. It is a well-known case that most of the heaviest and longest vehicles choose rv. 3 in front of the E6 when driving all or part of the Oslo-Trondheim route. Rv. 3 has a lower elevation difference and a shorter travel distance, and the road is so never winter-closed. The working party believes this project is absolutely correct and not least important. That is why it is a unanimous committee that today wants to put the spade in the ground as quickly as possible to build a road, and we are pleased about that. The working party also believes it makes sense to look at the calculation technical interest rate, both on this project and on other projects. It will open up lower tariffs, shorter downtime or extension of the project, which will provide more money. The potentially increased economic space must provide solutions that are well anchored among those most affected by the toll project. That being said, the proposal for the organisation of this project as a OPS project also deserves some comments. OPS projects are not a forward-looking and modern way of financing transport projects – note that I said ‘finance’, not ‘building’. Road private debt financing is poor management of Community money as it provides for greater financial costs, which ultimately have to be paid by the Community. The proposal for a milestone payment does not alter this fact. It is still the case that toll companies with public guarantees achieve better conditions in the market than is the case for the conditions of the OPS contracts, which the Government itself actually acknowledges in Reporting. St. 25 for 2014–2015, Straight ahead. It is important to get as much money as possible. The proposal to implement rv. 3 which a OPS project has in reality delayed the project by two years, one and only to reduce the cost of the project by 250 million. kr in increased interest charges and extended toll collection time. Thus, despite lower tariffs in isolation, the drivers and the transport of food are charged an extra charge and a delay that could have been avoided. The local decisions were taken in 2014, but because the government turned the project into a OPS project, the State Road Administration spent two new years making new case proposals. The project on rv. In the current NTP, 3 have a cost framework of 3.2 billion. kr. Four years later, we see that the project plans for the route are essentially the same as in 2013, with a few exceptions. Nevertheless, we now have a cost increase of 1.9 billion. DKK in four years. Changes to the project alone cannot defend this. The increase in costs is disproportionate and represents a challenge for the sector in general as Councillor Solvik-Olsen has so far not been able to address it. For the Workers' Party, the organisation of this project is done as an OPS project with a small bismach, but the path has already been delayed for two years and the Workers' Party has no interest in contributing to further delays in this matter. We therefore vote in favour of the vote and also against the proposal by the SV and the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e938	Let me start by thanking both the Committee and, not least, the rapporteur for a good cooperation and a great deal of commitment. Route 3 and Rv. 25 on the Ommensvollen-Grundset/Basthjørnet route in Hedmark is an important route to improve traffic between the Oslo area and Trøndelag, but also to create a stronger and more integrated housing and labour market on the Hamar-Elverum route. It is therefore a project that is important both for transit traffic and not least for local and regional traffic. At the same time, it's a stretch where, unfortunately, too many accidents happen. When we have a new four-field road on large sections of the route, a two-field road with a middle part and a pass-by field on parts of the route and a new one, there is good reason to expect that the accident frequency will be significantly lower, and zero at all. The rapporteur has given a good description of the project, so I will not take the time to repeat it. Since Prop. 45 S for 2016-2017 both deals with the toll collection in the project and provides the framework for the implementation of the extension as an OPS project, I will link some comments to it. A total toll contribution of 3.3 billion has been calculated for the project. kr measured in 2016-krona. The other funds come from State resources. Since this project is to be carried out as an OPS project, the State funds will be mainly used for payment upon completion. This means that the need for toll loans is very limited in this project, in fact lower than in normal implementation, and that the main weight of the money collected from the drivers, in this case, actually goes to the project. For the Right, it has been important to implement several implementation strategies in road construction. The goal must be to build more roads faster, more efficient and at the right cost. There is an important reason why we have established New Veier AS, and that is an important reason why we also want to use public–private cooperation where appropriate. This project may be appropriate to use OPS as an implementation strategy. Experience from projects previously carried out in Norway has been good. In a OPS contract, there will be strong incentives for rapid implementation, as the financial risk of delays lies with the OPS carrier. Furthermore, OPS has been shown to stimulate increased innovation and new technical solutions. Contract fastening, operation and maintenance for 20 years also provide high predictability and a defined standard throughout the twenty-year period. When I read and hear the Workers' Party's criticism of OPS as an implementation strategy and what is in the Inn. 216 S for 2016-2017, there is basically old rhetoric about debt financing of the road and poor management of Community resources. It's almost like I'm wondering if they've at all been involved in how this project is supposed to be implemented, if they've at all reflected on the benefits that OPS contributes to as an implementation strategy. In this project a payment of approx. 50 pst. of the cost of construction of the completion of the project, mainly from State resources. As this project is structured, it means that the need for toll loans is very limited. The total debt financing of the project is not likely to be much larger than traditional implementation, but the financing needs will be mainly with the OPS company and not with the toll company. That's also the risk. I am surprised that the Workers' Party does not seem willing to implement new ways of organising and implementing important road projects. For the Right and Government, it is important to use the entire toolbox. OPS can then be a good instrument, where appropriate, not least to stimulate increased innovation and better risk-sharing between the private and public sectors and to create predictability both during the investment and operational phases. I am convinced that the implementation of this project as an OPS project will produce good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e963	This case concerns the implementation of the project, etc. 3/rev. 25 in Hedmark as a OPS project. Route 3 is part of the transport corridor between the Oslo area and Trøndelag. The aim of the project is to improve accessibility, road safety and a better living environment along the way of the day. It shall also provide a coherent offer for walking and cycling between Hamar and Elverum. New rv. 3 is excluded from Elverum, and the expansion will strengthen Hamar and Elverum as a common housing and labour market region. This is a good project Stortinget decides today. Not least, it is gratifying that we are now getting a new OPS project going. The Christian People's Party supports this, and from our side we have been positive for a long time – a number of times and consistently – to OPS models in the road sector. The Storting Communication On the right track, the basis for the renewal of the way we build roads in Norway. It has long been called for by the Christian People's Party, but during the red-green period there was far too little focus on the renewal of the sector. Now we see a change, and the Christian People's Party is proud to be part of a majority that provides innovation, innovation and innovation in Norwegian road construction. OPS is one of several current implementation strategies that can be used. The most important thing is that we ensure that the planning and construction of road projects is implemented quickly and cost-effectively. The OPS model is a good tool in this way. Therefore, it is also very positive that New Weier AS is in place and that OPS is being used where appropriate as a complement to traditional implementation strategies. For the project rv. 3/rev. 25 in Hedmark, it appears from the proposition that it may be appropriate to test different milestone payment models. Therefore, for this project, a slightly lower milestone payment has been made than that directly resulting from the Storing Message On the right track. It is added up here to a OPS model where approx. 50 pst. the construction costs are paid at the time of the opening of the traffic and the remainder over 20 years. At the same time, it is important that the flow of payments be designed in such a way that there is a real risk transfer to the OPS carrier, which is a central moment for the State to choose a OPS model. Here, the need for toll loans is reduced compared to normal implementation, and the toll company raises a smaller loan. With this as a rear carpet, it is interesting to record the continuing resistance of the Workers' Party to such thinking. In the suspension, the Workers' Party claims that despite the milestone payment scheme, OPS is still concerned with private debt financing by public roads. Well, this resistance to renewal is at best consistent over time. In 2011, on 26 October, the then prime minister, from the Workers' Party, answered a question about road construction from Knut Arild Hareide. He said it like this: ‘If Norway starts to finance road projects, we have arranged very foolishly. Our problem is not that we have too little money, our problem is the total use of money and possibly pressure on the interest rate. We don't have to buy roads on payment, we can give them cash." This is what the Prime Minister at that time said. If the Workers' Party still believes that borrowing is a wrong instrument in the road sector, there is reason to recall that the total loan amount that the red-green government was behind in order to build a new road was larger than ever before. Then I hear the representative tongue still expressing great scepticism for OPS projects. But the tolling system, which has also been accepted by the Workers' Party, has interest charges that companies have to pay as a result of the loans they raise in ordinary banks. The companies also have other costs of operating the toll solutions. In addition, toll companies must advance their contribution to the construction of the road and therefore receive interest. If the Labour Party still believes that it is setting up ‘very stupid’ – to quote the Prime Minister at that time – it speaks for itself. The Workers' Party provided borrowing, or way of paying off, as they call it, so the rhetoric falls here in my opinion on its own unfairness. Christian People's Party and I are more concerned with contributing to the renewal of the sector, faster deployment, lower risk and more money. Otherwise, I refer you to the rapporteur's good review.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e987	Janne Sjelmo Nordås has signed up for the last moment and is given the floor before the Council of State Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e992	That's right. I asked for the floor to say a little about the proposal for a decision that has been tabled. First, I want to say that the Centre Party is positive about the implementation of this project. The development of Rv. 3/rev. 25 – an important route for the transport industry – is long-distance and very timely to get in place. The center party wants the best way for the money, so we think this project is going to be good. I just have a few comments. The maintenance of the route and in the region needs to be seen in a little bit of context, so you don't do double work, because there are many different actors here. I think that is a little important to be effective in making the best use of the money. Then the Center Party of an Incurrence has not been included in a note we were supposed to be in. It is the note that starts with a majority ‘recording that it is added up to a calculation technical interest rate of 5,5 pst’. That's where the Center Party was supposed to be. So in the end, the centre party is not going to support proposal No. 1, presented by the Swedish Environment Party and the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1005	The representative then made it clear that the Senterpartie should be present on that note.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1010	This is a good opportunity to congratulate all those who have been involved and brought forward this important project – all engineers, advisers, politicians, local businesses and others who have worked evenly, and who are now rewarded by the Storting offering their commitment to building an important road map. In the summer of 2014 and the summer of 2015 I drove E6 and Rv respectively. 3 in order to experience and experience the road itself, meet engineers, the Road Service and people who work to repair the road – both where it is to be built and where more maintenance is needed – and meet truck drivers, businesses, logisticians, shopkeepers and petrol stations to learn how important that transport year is in everyday life. There's no question about rv. 3 is an important travel vein north-south. You often sing about E6, but many truck drivers run rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox Making it better, both for those who want to go far, and – not least – for those who drive it daily, to and from work, to and from kindergarten with their children, to and from cultural and leisure activities is important. Getting better traffic flow gives more predictability in everyday life. That means that we can spend less time traveling and more time on being where we're going, with family, at work, with friends. But that also means that you can travel safer. Reducing the number of accidents, or the risk of accidents, is an important part of this. Making sure that people feel that they can get there safely and quickly is important in our society. This is an important transport corridor between regions, but also locally. It's part of the main link that goes between Hedmark and Hamar, Østerdalen and Trysil. So here you get 26.6 kilometers of new highway, four-field road on a lot of distance. And if the Road Service believes that it really should be more, we should be more than happy to be involved in finding solutions. There are adjoining works, passing fields and 8 km of walking and cycling roads, and very many kilometres of local roads need to be adapted. In order to repair the control and traffic station, some of the road must be left away from where people live, so that they also get a better local environment. I think that's good. I'm glad you've come so far, and I'm happy to see the implementation. Then I register that some from the opposition find their need to complain, without any alternative suggestions. It's nothing new. However, let me point out that I think some of that complaint is directly wrong. This gives the impression that the project has been delayed. This remains to be demonstrated. But I know that a presentation was presented before this government joined, where Vegvesenet said that if there is money already in the state budget of the Stoltenberg government, we can get started faster. But the Stoltenberg government never delivered that money, and then accusing today's government of delays because their own government never financed, is a little bit clever. This is not a road that has been planned all of a sudden now, this is a road you have worked with for a long time. And if this was as important as the Workers' Party gives the impression that it was suddenly now, I thought the Workers' Party would have found time during its years to actually present this. Now you're going to present, you're going to finance, you're going to have a decision made, and you're going to have to do it a better way. For me, the most important thing about a road project is not when you start the planning process, the most important thing is when the road opens. By having an OPS approach to this, it is likely that you will get faster in your measurements than you have done before. It is a bit strange – even the Workers' Party writes in its comments that studies have been conducted that have evaluated OPS projects that have been carried out and that risk management is improved and that the implementation time is shorter, but it is not necessarily possible to demonstrate lower costs. Well, that means you have a gain of two out of three points. Nevertheless, the Labour Party is opposed. However, the report to which the Workers' Party itself refers means faster implementation speed. And then you say here that this is delaying it. Then I think the Workers' Party should read the reports they themselves write about. I think everyone knows where my party has its heart when it comes to tolls. I wish we could avoid that. But at the same time, we have a large number of people who have said that tolls are part of the funding method. But then it's important that we reduce the level. It is a little strange that the Workers' Party gives the impression that OPS funding costs money, while tolls are free. No, tolls are also money borrowed in the private market and on which interest is paid. Where the majority of people today have said that we are going to spend money to increase the state's shares in order to reduce the cost of finance, then the Labour Party is voting against in the State budget. If they are against high funding costs, they should support civil policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1027	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1033	Now, the Solvik-Olsen State Council has been in charge and budgets in 2014, 2015, 2016 and now in 2017, and the project will only come in 2017, so he has not been in a position to make a significant contribution to the Earth. But now the Storting will finally adopt this expansion, and that's good. The government has said that roads will be built much faster. This project is actually two years late, and not only is it two years late, but it's also almost two billion. kr more expensive in four years. So how does the Council explain that the project plans have been nearly 2 billion. More expensive in four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1040	Because the engineers and those who plan it find that there are solutions that were more expensive than they originally thought. It's a challenge you have on many road projects, and that's why we work to bring down costs. However, I record that almost every time both the Road Administration and, not least, the New Roads find simpler and better solutions, which bring costs down, red-green local politicians tend to protest against those solutions. They won't be involved in cutting costs. When we find opportunities to speed up road projects, such as: in Trøndelag, sits state politicians and local politicians from the Workers' Party and protests against the speeding up of road projects. Now we see that at the E6 in Hedmark there is an opportunity to find other solutions that reduce costs, and then the Centre Party and the Workers' Party sit on the local government and block this. So I would like the Workers' Party to come along and find the solutions and adopt them, instead of calling them in, but then stop them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1047	I record that the Council of State is not interested in answering why this project has been nearly 2 billion. kr more expensive. - It's got to be. The councils were also in their posts on tolls and why his party is against tolls. The government platform of the Right and Advance Party states that ‘the share of tolls in new projects shall be reduced’. Now we have a whole new project for treatment in Stortinget. How will the Council explain that he himself proposes to increase the toll ratio from 61,5 pst, which is the current NTP, to 64.7 pst. in the proposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1056	When this government took over, the toll share in new road projects was on average over 40 pst. In the projects we're now submitting, they're on average lower than 30 pst. Then there are some projects that come out cheaper than we thought, and some projects get more expensive. This is one of the projects that has a higher cost than an original one. But let me remind you that this project is going to be under the so-called interest compensation scheme for tolls. That means that within one should start collecting this, one could get increased government appropriations that bring down the tariffs. It was the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Party. The working party was against it. So it's a little bit strange that a guy wants to bring down the toll and get up the state share, when the government parties and the civil majority in the Stortinge have a solution to that, but then the Workers' Party is against it. Once again, we see that the criticism of the Workers' Party is promoting, not being followed up by their support for solutions. They just promote criticism, and then they don't support the solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1063	I record that the councils have a very creative mathematical perception of their own government platform, where they say to reduce the amount of toll in new projects. Here, the Council of State has had the opportunity to follow up that declaration by presenting the proposal on the development of R & D. 3 and choose not to do what is stated in the declaration. It is the responsibility of the Council of State to answer. Then, through the debate in the hall, there are slightly different perceptions of the use of OPS, and that is the real political difference. I was actually going to let that lie, but since this project is proposed as an OPS project, I wonder if the Council of State can respond to what elements of this route it is that make this route very favourable to OPS, and why it has chosen to use OPS on this particular route.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1070	I think it's a little strange that the Workers' Party first protests against the use of OPS and then asks why a user does it. It should have been a prerequisite for one to get involved in the use of OPS, then to criticise the actual elements, rather than to do so on autopilot. Some of the reasons here is that one says that one should have a 20-year period in which one builds and maintains just to ensure that one builds, has a quality that makes the maintenance or total costs as low as possible. That's why we do it. That's something that's been wanted for many, many years. The colleague of Tong, the representative of Romemetveit, admitted after they left the government, that there they had been too bad, they had not had enough control over the development of road projects and costs. Let me still point to the two previous answers. I have pointed out that the toll percentage has fallen during this government period. The representative tongue didn't get it. I pointed out that 42 projects receive letters from the Ministry offering to reduce tariffs through increased government appropriations just to reduce the toll percentage further. The representative tongue overlooked it too, but the fact is it's equally full.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1079	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1084	I'll be brief. I think that the representative tongue has good arguments and references, but what she points out is that the government, and especially one party in the government, the Progress Party, has gone high with very big promises, but cannot defend why the outcome, as in this context, is going to be quite different and not in line with their promises. But we're used to the state council having that kind of deal with the actual numbers. We will return to the Ringeriksbahn at a later stage, in connection with the treatment of the national transport plan. It is also the case that many of these road projects are becoming more expensive and the tolling rate is the choice of expensive solutions, major expansions, rather than other alternatives. We are therefore promoting, together with the Greens/Greens/EFA, a proposal, which has been distributed in the Chamber, to ensure that further work is done to limit costs. We're going to vote in favour of the proposal and say yes to the roads. Roads are particularly sought for road safety reasons because there is a great need to improve road safety along these important roads. We are going to vote against the OPS solution proposed by the government. With that, I take up proposal No. 1, which I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1097	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1104	In my reply to the Council of State, I raised the question of why this route has been proposed as a OPS project. The reason why I asked that question is simply that there is no place in the proposition why this distance is particularly favourable for that type of project, and I registered in the reply that I got no answer to that either. Then there are several representatives who have been up on this pulpit with a very strong need to defend OPS contracts. It just shows me that the Workers' Party must have hit a kind of nail on its head and a sore point in many, when many have so much need to defend the OPSs. The representative Helge Place from the Right may not have listened very well to my post. The working party is critical to OPS as a financing strategy, but not necessarily as an implementation strategy. That's what the comments also say. The place's posts really just show that the Right has a greater need to criticize the Workers' Party for the sake of criticism than to actually listen to what is being said and read what is in the notes. The Workers' Party proposed to the Government together with the SV and the Centre to use road development contracts as a new way of building and operating new roads. Now we see that the contract has been implemented on Helgeland. I just have to say that I am recording that both the Right and the Government even now boasts the unimpeded use of this contract, and of course we in the Workers' Party are very pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1115	It is only to note that it is a joyous day for the middle of Hedmark, and in and of the country for the rest. The debate has been very straightforward and illustrates that rv. 3/rev. 25, in particular rv. 3, which goes all the way to Trondheim, is a main year north-south. It is a very bad stretch, and, as the rapporteur said, every Friday and Sunday, the line is from Ånestad to Elverum. That's a little bit of a point. After all, we are building a way for the future, and the SV proposal that lies here is likely to be received with horror, among other things. in Trysil, for there is no doubt that rv. 3/rev. 25 today is a clot up against developing what is going to be a very important nourishment for the country, and also for Hedmark. They have great growth ambitions in Trysil as a tourist destination, and without a better and more time-consuming route, they're not going to be able to exploit their potential. That is why this is a great day for Mid-Hedmark. There is so much going on in the Inland at the moment, and the transport demand is going to increase. When I hear that there is already today an annual traffic of 14 000–15,000 on the route there rv. 3 and Rv. 25 goes together, and one already today has an annual traffic of 8 000 on the route where they split up again, where rv. 25 goes on to Hamar, while Rv. 3 goes down to E6, I very much appreciate the fact that the Council of State signals the willingness to also look at the distance that is now a two-field distance there. I think that, with Trysil's ambition to grow and traffic northwards, quite quickly is going to be a bottleneck, which you don't need when planning new roads. So when the Council of State signals that he's willing to start looking at solutions there, it's very positive. But the project is very good. I am not quite able to relate to claims that the project will be delayed, when the opposition does not put up with either money or willingness to finance it. The project is in progress. That's when the road is finished, which is important for Hedmark, and there we have done the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1125	I would like to comment a little bit about the claims that are being made here from the Workers' Party, about delays. I was prepared for it. We've heard them many times, especially in the media, try to create a negative impression around an important and good project. Here today, a two-year delay is claimed. I wonder where the Workers' Party has that number from. It's a statement – and it's a statement that's completely wrong. We are now getting started, as I said before, with several measures already this year. Deforestation has already been completed. The OPS project itself starts next year. And we're keeping the schedule. If you look at the red-green NTP, which the red-greens themselves have adopted, and the action programme that the Vegvesen has set up to follow, it's just added up to 230 million. kr in government funds in the first period, from 2014 to 2017. Then comes the largest government allocation in the next period, from 2018 to 2023. That's exactly what we're working on. The largest appropriations will then be made in 2018 and 2019. One thing is construction start – it's a claim, as I said, that we're delaying construction start, and I'm taking that at the strongest distance from – but another thing is completion. Most likely we'll be able to complete rv. 3/rev. 25 before that which was in the red-green NTP before that which was there. So in the case of delays, there is no reason to repeat the incorrect claim. It is wrong, and we follow the schedule, as it is also in the Vegvesen action programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1134	I feel the need to comment a little on what the representative, Mr. Tung, has promoted and made arguments about OPS as an implementation strategy. For us, it's important to use the entire toolbox. It is important to use the tools we can to build roads faster, more efficiently and at the right price. That is why we are also concerned about using OPS where appropriate. For this route, at least we consider it to be an appropriate way to organise it. That means that with OPS as an implementation strategy we can get more innovation here, we can get faster implementation, we can get more predictability in terms of costs, operation and maintenance, and we also see that it provides a better risk distribution between public and private. When the Workers' Party's criticism of OPS is mainly about funding, at least I think it is worth going in and looking at how this OPS project is structured. When 50 pst. by the installation cost is paid by the opening of traffic and mainly by state resources, it means in principle that the total borrowing and implementation of this as an OPS project is about the same as if one were to do so in a traditional way – except that a greater part of the financing burden is on the OPS company and a significantly smaller part is on the toll company. That's the big difference. I think that for us, risk-sharing is important. When we use OPS, we take responsibility for a private operator, create predictability, and it also ensures that a person gets strong incentives for implementation both at the right price and at the right time. So that risk distribution actually has a value, and I think it's also worth taking into account in those types of projects. I think it was a good idea to comment on it. Now I think the Workers' Party must start to be a little more pragmatic about the way we implement the projects, and not end up in an ideological argument more or less on autopilot that OPS is debt financing of the road. That's not going to be right, at least not in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1145	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1161	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1170	Let me start by thanking the Committee for a good and tidy discussion of this proposition. There seems to be a large consensus on the main features of the proposition presented by the government. There is a proposal from the Workers' Party that I assume they will, of course, prepare for themselves. Nord-Jären is one of the urban areas in which it is relevant to establish urban staves. The municipality of Rogaland and the municipalities of Stavanger, Sandnes, Sola and Randaberg agree to continue their efforts on road measures and to facilitate growth in passenger transport by means of public transport, bicycles or bicycles. Although the region has experienced a sharp fall after the fall in the oil price in 2014, it is still expected to generate significant population growth in the coming years. In order to achieve the objective of zero growth in passenger car traffic, it has been decided at local level to implement, inter alia: the following measures: establish a bicycle expressway between Stavanger and Sandnes via Forus establish a continuous bus system on the North Jären, also called the Bus Road; to establish a transport corridor for business on the west side of the most popular residential areas, known as the West Transport Corridor, and to improve E39 on the Aelgård-Hove and Smiene-Harestad section; In the Nord-Jären package, a toll collection was made for 15 years from 2018. This means that the first measures can start as early as 2017. Portfolio management with annual rolling and four-year action programmes is envisaged. This is a comprehensive urban package with current project at an estimated 30 billion total cost. kr, and one calculates toll revenue of approx. 25 B.C.E. kr. In the treatment of the toll bill, we have received e-mails from many who are concerned about the financial burden this will impose on the population. I understand that, especially considering that the work situation has probably changed for many of the last few years. At the same time, it is difficult to imagine how important road and collective solutions in urban areas can be realised without some form of user funding. This is not particularly true for Northern Ireland, but applies to the vast majority of urban areas in Norway. Measures have been taken in the urban package to protect the largest users both through an hourly rule and by setting a pass-through roof of 75 passages. Initially, it was only proposed for tariff group 1 in line with the previous Stortingen decision. The Committee has agreed to extend this to tariff group 2 if it has local support. There have been many and strong reports from industry in the region that the pass-by roof should also apply to the transport of food, and I am pleased that, through the decision today, we are making provision for that very thing. The urban package is the result of a local initiative, and it has broad support from the county and the municipalities concerned. At the same time, it is important that the State contribute significant funds to such an urban package, and it is therefore gratifying that the government should add up to 50 pst. financing of important collective actions, such as the Bus Road, in line with previous promises. Further clarification of the state funding of other projects will be related to the national transport plan for 2018-2029. I also register that the Workers' Party has submitted a proposal for up to 70 pst. financing of Bussveien. It's up to the Workers' Party itself to clarify what 'up to 70 pst.' I record that state contributions to this type of investment project were on a completely different level under the red-green government. With this proposition, we're laying the groundwork for a North-Jearth urban package. It will be a great journey promise for the whole region. Although it will be economically demanding for some years, I am convinced that this will contribute to a positive development and a forward-looking and modern urban region. Finally, I would like to comment on proposal No. 2, from Iselin Nybø on behalf of the Left. As a committee, we received a letter from the municipality of Stavanger recording changes and relocation of a toll station. For the Right, it's not relevant to go into this proposal from the Left for fundamental reasons, simply because we don't think it's natural that the Stortinge treats the location of toll stations in their treatment of the toll bill. On the other hand, it is important that the possibility lies with the Ministry and the Council of State and so does in the proposal for Decision II, point 4, where the Council of State is empowered to make such adjustments in retrospect. I would like to ask the Council of State to have the door open for the recordings that had to come from both the municipality of Stavanger and the county council, for any adjustments, and I welcome the comments made by the Council of State on that very matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1201	First, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good cooperation in the matter. First of all, this is a brand day for the North-Jear. With this package, Randaberg, Sandnes, Sola and Stavanger are taking action to address the transport challenges in their region. We are going to be delighted that the municipalities are active in order to achieve the objective of taking the growth of urban passenger car transport with collective, foot and bicycles. That is good climate policy, and that is good urban policy. The zero growth target set by Stortinget can only be achieved by setting up and contributing to the activities of the municipalities and counties. This case also points forward towards the treatment of a new national transport plan. The urban package here exemplifies many of the main challenges we face in the transport sector. First of all, we are growing more here in the country, and urban areas are growing. It requires transport solutions that both take into account the climate challenges and that cities be good places to live and operate. Secondly, it has become very expensive to develop transport solutions in Norway. The city package has only increased in two years by 6 billion. kr. The proposition more than suggests that there is a risk of further cost growth in the package. Thirdly, there are limits to the strength of the backs of the states to meet the transport challenges. The state has to contribute. In this case, urban areas are concerned, but the issue is equally relevant for county responsibilities. For this reason, the NTP base material agencies have pointed out that the cost of operating public transport in a zero growth perspective could be too large a task to carry. This has also been addressed by the municipalities and the county in connection with this urban package. Of course, I expect this issue to be dealt with in depth in the proposal for a new national transport plan by the government. The Labour Party believes that the State needs to contribute more to urban areas in the future. That is why we want the state to finance up to 70 pst. by the bus route, which will provide an increase in government funding by close to 1.5 billion. kr. What this extra money will be spent on is going to have to be the subject of the negotiations on the urban growth agreement, but we have pointed out that, for the sake of business in the region, it may be wise to consider using the funds to alleviate some of the toll burden on the transport of food in the region. I am therefore in favour of the proposal from the Labour Party in the matter. With regard to the proposal from the Left, the Labour Party will also vote against this, on the basis of the same principle explanation as the Helge Orte from the Right. We also refer to II, point 4, in the setting, where the ministry already has the power to change the arrangements for toll stations, assuming, of course, local agreement and that the economy of the project does not get worse. We would also ask the Council of State to look at this enquiry and also respond to the comment of the Council of State on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1224	The representative, Karianne Tung, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1229	I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on the North-Jearth Urban Package. It is Rogaland County Municipality and Stavanger, Sandnes, Sola and Randaberg municipalities that have agreed against the votes of the Progress Party to continue the effort on road measures through a new toll package. The Nord-Jären urban package deals with the further development of a road system in an area likely to generate significant population growth in the future. Local authorities want the growth of traffic in passenger transport to be taken with public transport, cycling and walking. This so-called package is intended to strengthen the collective provision and conditions of pedestrians and cyclists, in particular to areas with large industrial activities, such as the Forus area. The Ministry of Transport puts forward proposals on the financing of an urban package for the North-Jear, in line with the wishes and decisions of local elected authorities. The aim of this urban package is, at least as we see in the Progress Party – and also I – a little theoretical ambition for zero growth in all passenger cars until 2032, as well as a network that ensures good accessibility for all road users, with a focus on public transport, cycling, walking and commercial transport. At least here we in the Progress Party miss that there is a little more focus on the drivers and on the situation of the drivers. Unfortunately, that is not the main point, obviously, of this package. Local authorities have argued that future traffic growth should be taken with public transport, cycling and walking, rather than with a car. In order to achieve the objective of zero growth in passenger car traffic, several measures are being implemented. There is a so-called bicycle expressway, continuous bus system and dedicated transport corridors for business, but as I said, not so many special measures for the drivers. Unfortunately, it is a political majority who want to pay tolls. It is important that we organize the use of tolls so that the tolls avoid the most unreasonable burdens for the drivers and people. This project establishes an hourly rule, setting a ceiling of 75 passages per month in tariff group 1. At least it's a little patch on the wound. This will help to avoid particularly excessive additional burdens for many. Furthermore, for the Progress Party, it is important that the pass-by roof to be established also includes heavy-duty vehicles. The government has done a lot to reduce the toll burden on the drivers. Several toll projects have been closed, tariffs have been reduced through the compensation schemes adopted, and we are seeking to avoid the use of tolls on cross-roads and local roads. In practice, the Party and the Government demonstrate that it is actually possible to increase road investment and reduce the maintenance run while also reducing the total tax burden on the drivers. The Progress Party has voted against the urban package in all municipalities – this urban package we are now talking about. Consequently, such an urban package is something the Progress Party does not want. There is a demand from local authorities, with a majority of the other parties, that this urban package should now be introduced. In addition, the Progress Party has pointed out locally that we are not only against tolls and the package itself, but also against the distribution, where only a small proportion of approx. 30 pst. are to be used on the road and a greater proportion of approx. 70 pst. must be used for public transport. In conclusion, I would like to say that using the word «package» in such a context is very misleading. Packages associate people with gifts. You get it for Christmas, you get it for birthdays – then you get packages and gifts, and it's something nice, it's something fun, it's something you get. This is definitely not a nice gift to get. It's not like it's a package you get, it's not a package you want. It's a package you pay for. You pay dearly for it, and you're going to pay for it for many years to come, at least for 15 years. Such packages are not positively set up by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1250	The Nord-Jären urban package shall contribute to the good accessibility of all road users. The main emphasis is on public transport, cycling, walking and, in particular, commercial transport. There is expected to be large population growth in the future in Northern Ireland. Local authorities assume that traffic growth should be taken with collectives, bicycles and corridors – in line with the objectives set, inter alia. in the 2012 climate agreement, and I would like to take the opportunity to pay tribute to the region for an offensive and forward-looking initiative. The package will strengthen collective provision and make it easier to be pedestrians and cyclists, especially in areas with high commercial traffic. Then we are aware that some exceedances have been notified on some of the road projects in the package, which we in the Christian People's Party hope we will find a solution through the negotiations with the state, without going beyond the whole package. Localities include: decided to establish a bicycle expressway between Stavanger and Sandnes via Forus. A coherent bus system is to be established on the North Jären and a transport corridor for business is to be established on the west side of the most popular residential areas. Also parts of the E39 have to be repaired. The Christian People's Party believes it is important and positive that the cooperation parties Christian People's Party, Right, Advance Party and Left make sure that the state now contributes 50 pst. the costs of important new collective projects in our major cities. This also applies to Citypackakket Nord-Jären. The framework established for urban environmental agreements provides for State sub-financing of up to 50 pst. of the project costs of major county public transport projects in the four major urban areas, including the bus route project in the Urban Package Nord-Jären. Further clarification of State resources for projects in the Urban package of North-Jearth will take place through the national transport plan. Then I register that the Workers' Party is trying on a policy that I would call an overorder, but it doesn't seem very credible. Looking back at the red-green period of government, where we from the Christian People's Party tried to raise the government's share of this type of project, it was actually consistently no from the red-green. Now we record that the pipe has received a different sound, and the Workers' Party will now suddenly have 70 pst. State funding. We experience that as a little bit of credibility. I'm proud to be part of a majority that shows action in practice, and that makes sure that the state now actually increases its contribution significantly into important regional collective projects, both here and in the other major cities. With regard to the ceiling on tolls, which has already been discussed by many, the Christian People's Party fully supports the proposal for a decision in the vote. As far as the Left's proposal is concerned, we do not support it, with reference to the same justification given by the rapporteur. There is already a point in the proposal for a decision which gives the Ministry the necessary powers to amend the arrangements for toll stations, if one considers it necessary. I refer you to the rapporteur's good report on the matter, and I assume that this change requires local consent.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1267	I thank the rapporteur for a thorough and good account of the project and join me in what has been said. There is no doubt that this North-Jear package is needed. There is great population growth in the municipalities of Randaberg, Sandnes, Sola and Stavanger. There is a need for better public transport, and there is a need for a transport corridor for business on the west side of the most popular residential areas. Having said that, I have to express a little concern about the level of tolls. It is unlikely that the Storting has been cleaned up with so many emails from people who are concerned. That is why I am pleased that we have managed to get together for a reduction, at least an hourly rule, and that a pass-by roof should also include tariff group 2 if there is local connection to it. It is at least a handshake from the Storting to an area that continues to face unemployment challenges. Then to the proposal from the Left. I understand that there may be many wishes to change the passage point and the toll point, but I find it difficult that the Storting should enter and adopt that kind of change. At least that will lead to quite a number of enquiries in other cases. So I refer to the point that is under the proposal for Decision II, paragraph 4, that the Ministry of Transport is authorised to change the arrangements for toll stations on condition that there is local agreement on that. I think it is important that the Council of State, together with the County Council – it is perhaps most topical to cooperate with them – look at the possibility of this, and that we have then given the authority needed in that matter. That is why the Centre Party will not support this proposal either.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1278	I take the floor to address the proposal that has been put forward by the Left, which has been referred to by many. I have a great understanding that Stortinget finds it difficult to deal with the location of single-bombs. But now the municipality of Stavanger – and the county municipality, in so far as it is – has ended up in a small pinch, because they first became aware of the disadvantages of the location of the bomb in question a little late in the process, after the county had taken its decision. They then tried to contact the Vegvesen to change this particular bomb, but they were rejected quite in cash there on the grounds that this could only be changed through Storting's treatment. That is why the municipality of Stavanger has sent a letter to the Transport Committee, signed by both the rapporteur from the Right, the group leader of the Progress Party, the group leader of the Workers' Party and the group leaders of the Centre Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party respectively. So this is a matter as it is, as it is, a large and broad consensus on, and the rapporteur assured me at the latest today that this is also something the county council wants. The problem with the location proposed now is, first of all, that they have to close two roads in order to get all the roads into the toll point. The location is very close to a dwelling, so it affects very much those who live there, and it has to common some old trees, so it's not ideal in that way either. In addition, this would mean that a nearby hill cannot be used as an ake tray. Now, it's probably strictly not the most current argument, because people who have been in the Stavanger area know that there's a rare need for ake hills, because it's not snow – at least not so much snow – so often. But once there's snow, of course, everyone thinks it's fun if we also have some ake trays, because we don't have so many hills either! So this is not about what we have received many e-mails about. This is not about the problem that residents of Hundvåg have specifically raised. This is really about moving a bomb from an area that is perceived as obnoxious, inappropriate and difficult for the municipality of Stavanger to a slightly different place, but it won't have any major consequences considering who is inside or outside the bombardment. It's simply a curative move, in my opinion. So back to this with whether the Storting should go in and decide where it is most appropriate to place a bomb. I have a great deal of understanding that big business representatives find it difficult to decide. And now I'm promoting this proposal, but I'm more than willing to convert it into a transmission proposal if the council can assure me that this is a problem that he knows about, as he sees there are good reasons to consider, and wants to engage in dialogue with the municipality and county council to get a solution to this. Because, as I said, this isn't about for or against the bombing, and not about how many are going to be inside, and how many are going to be outside, or how high the prices are going to be. This is really just about moving a bomb point to a slightly more appropriate place, so it hits a little bit less those who live nearby.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1291	The representative Iselin Nybø has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1303	It's important to develop our cities so that we get good transport solutions, that people can get to work quickly and well, for leisure, family and enjoy life without being in line for half a day. There are many who need to go the same way at the same time, when many live in the same place, especially in the rush hour to and from work. This means that we have a lot of work ahead of us in developing our cities and agglomerations, so that the problem of cows is minimised. That means that we have to have good spatial planning, so that people live and work in places that reduce transport needs or make you find good solutions. One has to get good transport patterns, so that many people are going the same way, one can also develop good collective solutions, which are perceived as a better everyday life than having to use one's own car. Sitting one on the bus and train, one has the advantage that one gets freed up time to do other things than follow the road ahead. But if it takes too long to get to the bus and train or where the vehicle takes too long, it feels as negative, so we have to get buses and trains going quickly, but also that the stations are near where people live. And then we have to make sure that the vehicles we use are as environmentally friendly and energy efficient as possible. It's about good air quality in cities, and it's about being able to reduce energy costs. And then we also have to look, along with employers, if we can spread traffic a little bit in time, that not everyone should start working within the same half hour every morning and finish within the same half hour every afternoon, but that both schools, employers and others are looking at whether we can organize everyday things a little differently and spread traffic over a little more hours. The government and today's majority in the UK have been helping and strengthening cities to develop better transport patterns through a reward scheme that has increased significantly – yes, we have granted over 5 billion. NOK in our four-year period compared to less than 2 billion. kr in the previous four-year period. It provides opportunities to develop public transport in the largest cities. Today's majority have said that the State will take half of the investment costs of the major collective projects in the four largest cities. Some people think that it should have been even higher, but we look at those who are now criticising us for their own history, we see that they have hardly given anything to the same system. Oslo had to build Lørenbanen at his own expense. The Bergens Town Council today says they got between 5 and 15 pst. State aid in the red-green years, now they receive 50 pst. That someone says it's going to be "up to 70 pst." When the story shows that it's basically between 0 and 15, I think it's better to get a 50 pst guarantee. than to get some birds on the roof and end up with empty cage. The urban package Nord-Jären, which is being discussed today, is a local initiative. The Government has submitted it to the Storting as true to the local decisions as possible. The progress party locally has voted against the toll scheme, but the majority have so requested. The package includes road repair, collective and bicycle repair. One has gone away from having a trolleybus solution, but should have a very good bus solution, and one is working to find the best possible technology options such that it is emission-free. We have had a seminar with the actors to look at the status of bus technology today. We find that more and more bus manufacturers are delivering battery buses that are emission-free, which have good regularity and which can be charged along the way. This is something you have to work on, not just in Stavanger, but as many places as possible. Success Norway uses electric cars as a means of transport that people trust, and we also need to get over heavy transport. On the financing side, there is a great deal of toll. I don't think it's all the parties in this room that are equally satisfied with it, but here the majority decides. It is important that we ensure that it still affects the population as easily as possible. There has been a lot of debate here, and it also means that local politicians who have been and adopted this must have their fingers in the ground and make sure that they listen to the challenges that some families will face, and look at how much money you should spend, how high tolls you actually need. One assumes that one should have portfolio management here. I take it for granted that the Storting supports it, as one has done in other project packages, because it is a strong incentive to keep costs down in order to carry out the most project possible within the income you have. We have, of course, been there and think it is good that one should give the exemption system that is now in place for the large vehicles. It was local decisions that said that the heaviest vehicles should not have a maximum. Now it's coming anyway, and the government thinks it's okay. On the toll side, I just want to sign out what Nybø's representative picked up. That is actually a power of attorney given to us in paragraph 4 of the proposal for Decision II. We're going to use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1320	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1325	I really just have a little question. The majority will today adopt a decision whereby a requested government will set a toll cap for the commercial transport of goods in the region. Of course, it's very good that the majority also sees the problem of a business that is now struggling. The challenge is – as I was in my post – that this package presents a risk in terms of both toll revenue and costs for future projects. Therefore, it may be a little unwise to have a proposal that further weakens the funding base, without adding any more funds. My question to the Council of State is really quite simple: have any estimates been made about the cost that this majority decision will have?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1336	I don't have numbers with two lines under the answer, but I think it should be manageable within those limits, when one also wants it locally. When the county council in its time made this decision, they thought that one should not have a roof for a vehicle above 7.5 tonnes. There is a disaggregation category not found in the toll sector for which the limit is 3,5 tonnes. That's why the government said that we took for granted that the most important thing here was to have a roof for the heaviest vehicles. That roof was lower than it was decided locally, and when the signals were that it was unfortunate, we follow it up. But the most important thing about this package is to control costs. There will be a marginal share you see in heavy-duty transport and what this means, compared to having proper portfolio management on the whole package. And now when we see that one has opted for a trolleybus, it's likely that one has also taken away some risk costs, which makes it more than balance out the costs on this side.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1345	I drew myself a line because I was afraid that the Council of State was running out of time, and therefore did not address my proposal. But I heard that at the very end of his speaking time the Council of State said that he had received a mandate and that he would use it. So I'm just asking the state council to confirm that I've understood correctly, that the state council will engage in dialogue with the Rogaland County Municipality and Stavanger Municipality to find an appropriate location of the exact toll station no. 5, as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1350	I got it right, I got out of time. I tried to trick it into overtime, but the president is clubbing me when I'm too far in overtime. Point 4 of the proposal for decisions contained in the proposal states: ‘The Ministry of Transport shall be empowered to amend the arrangements for toll stations, provided that there is a local agreement on this and that the changes do not weaken the economy of the urban package.’ I want to use that authority. Then it is important that local politicians look at: is it just this, or is it also other places where you can have unreasonable effects, in which we can rectify? But if children in Stavanger want to find a good ake tray, I can recommend it at Tinghaug. It's very steep to be on the Iron.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1362	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1369	In the case of the 'packages' that we're talking about, which are really not packages, there's one thing that characterizes them. It is a negative attitude towards cars and drivers, and then it is a positive attitude towards bicycles, corridors and collectives. I think the time is ripe for political Norway to reconsider its scepticism against the car and the drivers. The car is a good one, and it is a good one that has come to stay. As a result, we need roads. For those who are concerned with pollution and emissions and who wish to reduce emissions, the current government has shown quite clearly that it is actually possible to reduce emissions substantially without restrictions, restrictions, bans and bans on the driving lists. The best example is to show what we have done on the charging page for cars. Only by positive means, only by using carrot – not whip – are the emissions from new cars of approx. 83 g – and more than three years before the climate agreement of 85 g before 2020. How did we do that? Well, by stimulating people to buy hybrid cars and stimulating people to buy electric cars. There are positive instruments, which have also led to Norway becoming a leading country in terms of an environmentally friendly car park. We are far ahead of Sweden, and we are far ahead of the European Union. The last time I checked, the EU was up to 120 g, and Sweden was even higher. We are many, many years ahead of the ambitions of the EU in terms of emissions from new cars. I really hope that political Norway can take a little review with itself and change the scepticism that unfortunately has been established against cars and motorists.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1378	After the Council of State first said in his post that he would use the mandate and in the reply box confirmed that he would look specifically at the toll station no. 5, I feel that my intention with the proposal is respected and will therefore ask that it be turned into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1383	The representative Iselin Nybø then referred to the proposal for a transfer proposal. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1401	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1410	This proposal for a representative is made by Mr Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås and deals with a State contribution to the tram line north of Sinsenkreuzet over Tonsenhagen to Linderud in Oslo. A unanimous committee refers to the fact that this track is not a priority within the scope of Oslopackak 3 until 2020. The Committee also does not know that local investment funds are available for this purpose. It will also point out that there are unexplained planning processes and that the project is therefore not quality assured. Therefore, the Committee considers it natural that the issue of State co-financing for this project should be considered in the context of future national transport plans and that Document 8:27 S for 2016-2017 should be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1419	One of the most beautiful revelations you can get on your way into Oslo is when you get along the rv. 4, runs over the Sinsen cross and reaches the top at Sinsen T-Bahn station. Then the whole of Oslo town centre rolled out your eyes with government buildings, town halls and all Oslo church spires. If you're lucky and there's sun, and it's most often here in Oslo, the sun flashes from the fjord right towards you and hits the Head Island and the others of the Oslo Earth's pearls. You like to look for the horizon as coastal people do, but don't find it because the Nesodden prevents it. This amazing view has drivers on the 31 bus every day, many times a day. They do a proud job and drive the country's most busy bus route. The people behind the bus, on the other hand, rarely have the same good view, because the bus is tasteful both in morning noise and in afternoon restlessness. In other words, this is the bus route which is the most, of all the bus routes in the country, calling after being replaced by a heavier vehicle. There is the tram, which is what Router in his strategy, M2016, has presented. They give this high priority, because if you see the total portfolio of projects, you can see that big, heavy projects are coming in Oslo in time. We know we're going to have the Fornebuban, we're going to have an upgrade of the T-Bahn network and the signalling system in the T-Bahn network – which will give us 25 pst. extra capacity through the tunnel under Oslo, below us here. And we know that these two big, heavy investments are already coming from now on and beyond the 21st century, towards 2030. If the Tonsenhagen trick is not prioritised by national authorities, it will have to remain in line after all the sun tags. It is absolutely correct that the Tonsenhagen bitch in the Oslopacket 3 negotiations has not been the top priority. There is a large pot, a large sum of money, set aside for T-Bahn and T-Bahn investments in the Oslo area. There is no doubt that we from SV's side, and I also perceive from the Red-Green City Council, want to lift the Tonsenhagen-trikken up. The background for this is very simple: a move on that stretch would solve important challenges for traffic development through the city. Everyone involved in transport planning knows that mixing trams and buses, mixing different vehicles, creates problems. There is no room for more buses despite the planned expansion of more dwellings in the area, despite the fact that we expect that more capacity will be needed on that stretch. And if you go down the Trondheimsweg, as it happens today, mix both buses and trams, it creates traffic disruption problems. The ground body here in Oslo Center is already quite heavily loaded. And having the mix of buses and trams creates great problems for traffic and will create more in the time to come. That's why it would be a move on this eastern part of the 31 line, just as it's now on the T-track on the western part of the 31 line, being a sensible social investment and being an investment that's absolutely necessary. It's something that the whole neighborhood is yelling about. – And now I would like to have Nikolai Astrup here, because he was injured to say that this was not a national project or a project of a national nature. Because that's how the government in its collective strategy says they want to finance with 50 pst. the national infrastructure projects in place and the extension of the line to Tonsenhagen would be just such an extension. So there is no other, not the Urban Railway in Bergen, not superbusing on the North Jären, none of the other major infrastructure investments to be made on public transport, which would so much replace the bus with the track – except of course the Fornebubanen, which we have decided to have that kind of solution. I am not going to re-propose the proposal for consideration here in the Chamber because I understand that it will not have a majority. I understand that the committee says, let's do this in connection with the national transport plan. But I warn the people of Groruddalen and all of you sitting here in Stortinget that the proposal will be re-emphasized in the context of the treatment of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1436	The proposal from the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås of SV is a good proposal for Oslo, as I as the Oslo representative think it is a pleasure to support. Although I take note that it is not being presented now, it is a good idea, and the Greens fully support it. This is an important project. It can be realized quickly, and it will improve the collective offer in Oslo. There are significant capacity problems in Oslo Centre, which this project will be involved in and offload, and it will contribute to better car-free alternatives in Oslo as a whole, and relieve a pressed collective offer in Groruddalen, to the delight of all. So I'm going to take this opportunity to take up another project in Oslo, which is even more important, and it's a new signalling and securing system for the T-Bahn. It's such a big, so important and so profitable climate project that everyone in Oslo and Akershus agrees that the state should finance half of it. In the renegotiated Oslopak 3-agreement, which finances much of the collective development in Oslo, a cross-political majority in Oslo and Akershus, including the Right and Left, requested the state to contribute 50 pst. of the financing of the signalling and securing installation for the T-Bahn. It is particularly relevant now that Minister for Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen has delayed the introduction of the new toll rates, with the result that revenue can be reduced by up to 1.5 billion. kr, compared with that provided for in the contract. This is a project that will benefit very many Oslo residents. Today more and more green and collective travels in Oslo. A total of 106 million journeys were made on the T-Bahn in 2016 and comparisons can be made with 72 million journeys by the NSB throughout Norway and Sweden. The signalling system we have today is out of date, and it is highly mature for replacement. A new and modern signalling system may increase the capacity of the T-Bahn in Oslo by up to 25 p.m., from 32 trains per hour today to 40 with a new installation. Measured in number of passengers, it will provide up to 50 pst. extra in the year. And this project is ready for pot, unlike many of the major railway investments that the government has recently presented, in connection with the pre-consensus on NTP. The signalling system may be handled by Oslo City Council as early as this year. The building can start in 2018. We therefore hope that this project will fit into the government's national transport plan. Then back to the new line north of the Sinsen Cross over Tonsenhagen to Linderud. That project is finished, but we've spent a long time getting to where we are today. One of the problems is that the Road Service is threatening to object to the development of trams because they believe there is too little space for cars. In Oslo, however, the political majority, with the Greens, SV and the Workers' Party at the head, have been able to make fewer choices about cars, and we agree with Mr Akershus on that. This changes the picture, and it is important that the Minister of Transport also takes over and contributes to it. Oslo has more ambitious goals than the state in terms of reducing car traffic, and Oslo therefore needs a state and a road system that is connected with the city in terms of reducing car traffic. The state road service sometimes acts as an actor who wants more road construction around our cities, and it has shown the processes around the E18 and E6 Manglerud project. It's high time we changed this, and we hope that good public transport projects now take precedence over land-intensive cars and roads in cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1447	It is very important to have good urban transport systems. People are going to get there, they're not going to sit and stare in line and breathe in bad air. They need to get where they are going to, to spend more time with friends and family, at work, cultural and leisure activities. Today's majority have made it possible for the biggest cities really to make a lift. Never before has so much money been spent through the so-called reward scheme for public transport. These four years have been granted over 5 billion. NOK to the scheme, against SEK 1.8 billion. kr under the previous government. Today's majority have introduced that the State should contribute half of the investment costs of the large collective commitments in the four largest cities. Never before will it be used as much money as it is right now. When Oslo built Lørenbanen, they financed it themselves. Bergen says that when they built their things, they got a maximum of 5-15 pst. from the State. This is also a fantastic boost. In addition, we know that the municipal economy is now among the best in many decades. Never before have there been so few municipalities on the ROBEK list, for a long time, and the profits in the municipalities are large. It provides an economic space through local economy, through public transport support schemes that are actually historic. In addition, we know that the Oslo politicians have chosen to introduce property taxes, they have to increase tolls, they are now increasing parking costs – in addition to more state resources. Nevertheless, we are now hearing that the parties that run Oslo seem to be getting too little money. I think it's a little bit about priority, because here one complains that the state doesn't take any more of the responsibility for public transport in Oslo, when we do much more than what's ever been done before. In addition, the railways are being built for billions of dollars, and the number of train departures from Oslo S has been increased by over 100 departures a day since the government change. We also see that this debate comes after the City Council in Oslo has been involved and negotiated Oslopackak 3, where this very project was not lifted, and then a so-called rematch in Stortinget instead. Then I think we should follow the rules, and then we should ensure that as long as the county councils are responsible for public transport, they should be given that responsibility, and they should be allowed to flourish with it. So for over 18 years in this town, a civil council has built up what the proposer says is a good collective offer, but then we see that those who promised to do it even better, not abilities to do it without the state bringing even more money. I suggest that you go to the elections as a lobbyist and not as a leader, if you think that the state should do the whole job when you think you should give priority. The action room in Oslo is good. There are many things that need to be built. The state should be involved and contribute to this, but Oslo must, when a dealer is Oslopacket 3, which provides the basis for this, also then the ability to prioritise what is most important. If the trip to Tonsenhagen was the most important thing, why wasn't it on that list when you started? Why were there other things that came up then? It's a bit of the job that's about prioritizing, and we also have to do that when we negotiate a national transport plan. Then we look forward to resuming this debate. The government's approach has been to build our cities better, but we also need to build our districts better, we need to build North Norway, the West, Middle Norway, the South and the East better, and that's the priority that's done in a whole. Local politicians and state politicians who are responsible must also ensure that they show that they are able to do so, not just say that they want it, but others have to pay it. So to the SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens: now you have power. Show that you have the ability to prioritise the cities that you run. You say that there has been a good collective offer that has been built up when the other party has run before you. Take your glove and get it on!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1462	The President must remember that the speech is to be directed through the President. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1469	I don't know if the council got it along, but I kept a pretty elated post, if I should say so myself, in a good tone. The Council of State, on the other hand, uses the opportunity not to be so sloppy. I think that's right. In the Oslopack 3 negotiations – and this the Council of State knows very well – Oslo would clearly, among other things. Priority is given to the development of E18, but the Council of State and the State Road Administration, i.e. the State, were very clear that this was a priority. There are different views in such a setting. Let me say this: from the SV side, we would like to give priority to several of the collective projects, while the right side, from its side, would like to give priority to, for example. a project like the Røa Tunnel. This is local policy. I have a very specific question, which I would have appreciated for the Council of State to answer. The government's policy is to bet 50 pst. on national projects, and then I ask: What is going to happen if the Council of State is in favour of a 50 pst funding of the Tonsenhagen bitch?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1478	We have said that we should contribute to this, but we should also give priority to implementing the projects together with the municipalities. Therefore, the priority given to municipalities will also be important. We've noticed that so far it's Fornebubanen, the T-Bahn tunnel under Oslo and Ahusbanen that's been uplifted locally. Then it's a little weird if the Storing is going to start to change that order of priority. It is not right that the civil side has not cared so much about collective, but only about road. This government and today's population have raised both parts. Oslo is getting more money to develop her collective offer from the state now than they ever got under socialist rule in this country. We have actually made it possible to do more of what SV wants. That's actually the best recommendation I have that SV should start voting on the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party or Left, because that's what gives the space for action. We have also seen that a civil council in this city has managed to convert that money into more collective bet per penny than it seems that the party traps of Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås can handle.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1485	If the Council of State had been less concerned with polemics and more concerned with answering the questions, we would have had shorter debates here in the Chamber on these things. I feel a need to say that the Council of State is far behind on urban environmental agreements. Oslo City Board and Oslo and Akershus together have also said that the signalling system at the Oslo T-Bahn is one of the things they might think is a high priority, but they have not been told so far that this is something to be prioritised with 50 pst. from the State. Fortunately, this is a dialogue, and I think it is good. In addition, it is important to point out that half of the railway effort that has taken place in this Chamber has come as a result of pressure from the opposition, not only from the Left and Christian People's Party, but also from the SV, the Workers' Party and the Green Party, which have invested significantly more in collective and train than the government has intended to do. But the council doesn't stand for what he wants, he stands for what he's been forced to – and that's positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1494	I see all that post as polemics...
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1500	That's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1505	... without a question. Then you can ask yourself who is prolonging the debates. Let me just remind you that even though the government's budget had been adopted unchanged every year, there had been significantly more billions of dollars to the railway than the one that Eidsvoll Holmås managed when he was the Council of State and put into government. So I have no problem comparing this. Then we have two eager partners, the Christian People's Party and the Left, who have been with and increased this even more. Then there's no doubt that if the goal is to bet on the collective and to bet on the railway, a bourgeois majority is the good thing for everyone who is occupied by it, when you compare what today's majority has done, with what the previous majority did. I would also like to remind you that in the urban environment agreements there were no promises or guarantees of 50 pst. part-financing from the State, if one reads the National Transport Plan, as the representative Eidsvoll Holmås and his colleagues presented. Fornebubanen was mentioned as a possible project. It was only when civil government was given in this country that 50 pst was promised, and that is what we are doing. We just hope that Oslo will be done with its control plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1514	The next line comes from the representative Rasmus Hansson, and then the president hopes that we will be back on the matter under discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1519	I'm delighted to meet the president's wishes. Both the Tonsenhagen bitch and other important public transport projects in Oslo are now delayed by the fact that the State Road Service has not waited for the idea that car traffic should take precedence in Oslo. Has the Minister had any dialogue with the Vegvesen about the objections they are now threatening to deliver, especially for the Tonsenhagen bitch and more generally about the government's own goal of zero growth in passenger car traffic in Oslo? Does the Council of State provide any guidance to the State Road Service based on these crystal clear political decisions not to delay collective development of the type Tonsenhagen-Triken in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1528	Road authorities shall be professionals to participate in and assess how best to operate in the city. Although zero growth is to be achieved in urban passenger car traffic, we know that there will be growth in the transport of craftsmen, goods transport and the like. This means that when you already have a road network that has a queue, you don't get rid of the queue, even with zero growth in passenger car traffic, if you remove the capacity on the road network. What is important is to be able to create a context in which the collective offer is increased, which allows more people to choose it when they are going to a place that frees up land, so that those trucks, trucks and crafts cars that are currently waiting for them can move faster. We don't help anyone if the craftsmen have to sit in line for an extra hour. We've made it possible to invest more in collective than was the case before. I hope that the City Council in Oslo will also be involved and give more money to collectively over their budgets, instead of spending the money on municipalising nursing homes and kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1537	Thank you for that. So I asked the Council of State if he has any dialogue with the Vegvesen that they should not hinder the carrying out of collective projects in Oslo. Do the councils have it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1544	Our dialogue is that we should help develop collective projects in Oslo. Then the Road Service should also be a professional body that says what the consequences are of possible choices, positive and negative. There are some of the assessments that I think they also made at Tonsenhagen. And as I just said, once there's already a queue, and if one then just starts removing files from the road, get a no less queue, one gets more queue. Then we need to find the best possible solutions. I hope that the City Council can join in, along with the Vegvesen, with those who run the collective system in Oslo, together with government and with big business, so that we can find the best possible solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1549	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has asked for the word in reply. He will receive it, provided that it concerns the matter under consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1554	I want to follow up Rasmus Hansson's question, which is a good question. It's about the state road system and the professional. Here it turns out that either Ketil Solvik-Olsen gives the wrong steering signals to the State Road Administration, or he has not read the Oslopack 3-contract well enough. He says that there should not be any growth in passenger car traffic, but there will be other traffic growth. That's wrong. The City Council rules in Oslo today by a majority behind it for a 20 pst. reduction of traffic. Then there is no reduction in passenger car traffic; there is a total reduction in traffic. The Oslopack 3 agreement says 20 pst. cross-border traffic reduction. In other words, we have 20 pst. reduction in all cross-border traffic and 20 pst. reduction in all traffic in Oslo. With a traffic reduction, it is necessary for the State Road Service to include it in its analyses when planning for the type of capacity needed on the roads in the future. But if they use the interpretation that the Council of State has, it's clear that they're acting in a different way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1561	When Oslopacket3 is adopted, the steering signals placed there will also be implemented. The road service relates to it, because they have also been involved in negotiating. So the representative shall not be afraid that one has not taken over the signals. At the same time, I am very much in favour of the Oslo City Council being involved in saying that one must also build better roads, so that one gets better flow, because even if one reduces traffic, there is already a queue in place. That means that you can't remove the queues even if you reduce something, because the queues are already very long. But I am very pleased that the City Council in Oslo will be involved in building out the entire E18. There has been a very long way to go – and the Green Party on the Environment. That means that it's important that we see the whole thing of what's happening. This government, by today's majority, has made it easier and better for both Oslo and Akershus to be able to build better collective networks. This means that one must also give priority to his own resources. Then one might rather ask: how does the Oslo City Council prioritise, when one spends money on anything other than transport, and then one comes to the state and says that it is a very important project, which is absolutely fundamental to the city, but which one chooses not to have in his own budgets? That's where the state is going to contribute, but that means everyone has to be uplifting together.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1572	That's not right, what the council says, what he's saying -- there's things that's not right here. Those who pay for the development of roads, bicycle paths and collective roads in Oslo are the inhabitants of Oslo and Akershus through tolls. It's not the state that finances the main focus of the expansion here. Nor is it right, what the Council of State says, that SV has accepted the whole E18 development. On the contrary, the Oslopack 3 agreement clearly states that it is also necessary to plan a non-traffic alternative to capacity expansion. So here's the disagreement. One cannot establish – as the Council of State does – what is his own desire, when it is quite obvious that there are other things that have been negotiated. There is a problem here, because the Council of State has been so late in putting in place new legislation on environmentally-differentiated toll agreements, we have a delay in implementing this, which results in a loss of a few hundred million dollars – it is possible – in investments in collective investment, money that could have been spent in a sensible way. Does the Council have any answer as to why there are delays?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1582	It is well known that there are technical challenges with the tolling system, which have existed since the representative Eidsvoll Holmås put in government. So we're going to do that. But when the purpose was to solve it through the Grindgut system – which I believe the representative Eidsvoll Holmås is familiar with from his own time in government – it has fallen asleep. That means you had to start over. These are not political but purely technical reasons. I should have liked to have seen that we had that system in place as soon as possible, because then a problem had been solved. It is a bit interesting that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås says that it is not the state that takes the costs here; it is the inhabitants through tolls. Well, the state contributes a lot more to this than ever before, but it is also right that the toll burden on the drivers increases. Those I wish were with and contributed more are the elected representatives of Oslo, who opted for them to strengthen public transport, but who just pass the bill on to drivers and to the state. I think that is a bad priority. I think it was much better when the previous city council set up, which made more of this promise within the framework they had, rather than just increasing the taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1591	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1598	I tried to put a low tone in my first post to keep this debate within reasonable limits of what we're really talking about, because it's really something quite fundamental. One is that we have four cities that are going to have this kind of agreement, and that's the four big cities. Oslopackak 3 has actually been promoted as a sort of star example of how this can be organized. There are three parties: it is Akershu County, it is the Municipality of Oslo, and it is the State. The State even has the railway director, as a fully-fledged member. There are these four and these three parties agree, which will form the basis for the treatment in the Storting, not all possible single calls from others coming here. We assume – the same as with the Iron Package – local unity. And the consensus isn't just Oslo City Council, it's not just the Green Party or SV – it's Oslo, it's Akershus, and it's the state. Fortunately, we have been covered by the state 50 pst. of the costs of the big things, such as Fornebubanen, the Oslo T-Bahn tunnel – coming – and Ahusbanen. There are large-scale projects, each of which is to be contributed by the State with 50 pst. But not only should the state contribute 50 pst., the other 50 pst. is to be financed locally. This is the starting point for the way we will deal with all four major cities: local consensus, priority of projects local and state contributions. I believe that is the basis for this government to propose that money be given to the big cities – to an extent that we have not seen before. I myself was the county rapporteur and I worked with the transport agency in Oslo and experienced two to three years in a row that we didn't get 5 flat ears for urban environmental agreements, because we didn't have cow pricing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1609	It was not because Akershus and Oslo did not want to go in for car pricing, it was because they were not willing to set a target to reduce car traffic. Fortunately, that goal is reaching all the parties on the Stortinget agree that you should have. At least you have to have zero growth. But fortunately Akershus and Oslo have now agreed that we should reduce the traffic across the border by 20 pst. If we are going to talk about Oslopackakt 3, there is a need for Akershus to take on its own traffic growth soon. I guess the wearers are the ones who drive the most cars in the whole country, and that in an area where there would be good opportunities for more public transport. I took the glove from Igstad and carried on the discussion at that level, but it is the council that comes again and drives its polemics, as we are used to that he does. I actually perceive the recording of Igstad in a very constructive way. If that's how Oslo and Akershus agree, or just Oslo, to finance this project and manage to raise it in the project portfolio, it shouldn't be on the Right and the Advance Party and other parties here, saying no, this isn't a project that we're against. I think it's important to recognise it as a national project, just because there's so many people there, and just because the second part of the 31 bus route, which goes into the Igstad's own state, now gets 50 pst. funding, while the corresponding funding has not been put in place on the Oslo site. I think it's important to recognise that with reduced traffic, there's also a better place on the roads to set up more fields and prioritize public transport in an even better way – as we like. Then we're going to take this discussion further into the national transport plan. After all, we already have one revision and one debate on Oslopackakt 3 that is going on now, and it is fresh, among other things. because the government has not only technical problems, as the Council of State claims, but also has not been able to promote a new legislation, which they promised to do as quickly as they could, in a letter to the municipality of 22 December 2015, but which we have not seen in this room at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1624	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6, and the President believes it makes sense to continue the debate on the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1640	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1649	This proposal was supported by the representatives Per Olaf Lundtägen and Janne Sjelmo Nordås from the Senterpartiet and the representatives Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås and Kirsti Bergstø from SV. The proposal to amend sections 18 and 21 of the Railway Act is, in the majority's view, a rematch in a case that was dealt with in Stortinget just before Christmas last year. I Prop. 143 L for 2015–2016, Changes in railway laws and individual other laws [[railway sector reform]] ‘The majority refers to the letter of the Council of State dated 30 October 2016 in response to the request of the parties to the train strike. It appears here that the authorities will initiate the establishment of a national standard for the fulfilment of the driver’s training requirements for drivers.’ Furthermore, the Committee refers to the letter of the Ministry dated 5 December 2016, which is followed up, and has taken note of the following: ‘The proposal concerns the legislation on the training of drivers on the national network. The Ministry of Transport points out that there is already work to be done to look at the legislation in question. On 20 May 2016, the Ministry entrusted the State Railway Authority with the task of reviewing today’s requirements for the competence of drivers and certification schemes. [[SJT]] This work has come a long way and may lead to changes having similar effects to those envisaged by the draft representative.’.» The representative proposal implies that one here is trying to establish a special Norwegian legislation that is specially adapted to the NSB. It'll be unfortunate for several reasons. We are facing a massive investment on the railways not only here in Norway, but to the very most extent in Sweden and Denmark. With the construction of the Fehmarn Belt link between Denmark and Germany and a new link between Helsingborg and Helsingør, the rail link from Norway to the continent will be developed for both passenger and freight traffic. In addition to renewing the infrastructure on the Norwegian side, we also need to ensure that the Norwegian legislation is harmonised with EU legislation. Infrastructure and staff must be included. It is not rational to switch train crews at the border when Norwegian goods are going to the continent or goods from the continent are going to Norway. The majority of the Committee is pleased with the work now under way. I'm assuming that the minority itself will explain its vision. However, I can see that the broad majority behind the decision of June 2015 and of December last year are once again stuck in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1668	Railway operation is a central part of Norwegian transport policy and important for the transport of persons and goods. Until recent years, there has been reliable cooperation between the staff of the NSB and the management of the NSB, including: with regard to the understanding of how safety requirements of authorities are to be practised. However, in the autumn of 2016, drivers went to strike when the mediation broke. At the heart of the strike was the need for Norway to maintain the necessary, strong competence requirements practised for drivers in Norway. The strike was concluded on 30 October 2016 after a meeting with the National Mediator Nils Dalseide when LO Stat and the Employers' Association Specter reached an agreement. I would like to take the opportunity, in particular, to comment on the views of the Workers' Party on paragraph 3 of this agreement, that weaknesses in the driving regulations need to be corrected as today's wording does not sufficiently define a national standard of driving competence. The working party fully agrees with the proposers behind the proposal from the Centre Party and SV on the need to clarify the training requirements and not least the competence of drivers. On the other hand, we do not agree with the wording of the proposal, which proposes that the Storting should adopt very specific wording in the regulation itself. We have a principle of power distribution and a division of labour between the Stortinget and the Government, where the Storinge adopts laws, and the Government and the Administration make regulations. The Labour Party therefore believes that it is a perfectly obvious condition that the government and the administration lay down rules within the law adopted by the Stortinget as legislator. The government considers that a national certification system for drivers must be established and that the legislation must be amended in order to identify clearly the qualifications and requirements to be imposed on a certified driver. I therefore refer to the proposals from the Labour Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1683	Representative Karianne O. Heavy has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1688	For the Central Party, railway operations are a very important part of Norwegian transport policy for the transport of both persons and goods. There has been reliable cooperation between the staff of the NSB and the NSB management, including: with regard to the understanding of how safety requirements of authorities are to be practised. But last year's conflict was long-lasting, and it is vital to regain confidence. The central party believes that Stortinget has a joint responsibility to contribute to this. The requirement of competence in Norwegian railway operations is enshrined in the law on railway construction and operation, including tram, metro and suburban railway etc. of 11 June 1993 No 100. The requirement of competence is set out in particular in the Regulation of 27 November 2009 No. 1414 on the certification of drivers of traction units on the national network. The requirements here must be within the scope of the law. The basis of the proposal is the agreement between the NSB AS and the Norwegian Locomotive Managers’ Association on entry requirements, training and development of train drivers’ competences. I point out that the core of the strike was to maintain the necessary, strong competence requirements that are practised for drivers in Norway. It has been pointed out that there is still uncertainty as to whether a national regime can be established, which the Central Party believes we should absolutely have. It is against this background that we will promote the proposal in this matter. I'd like to know that it's a little bit special to be so detailed, but there's a background for us choosing to do it. We are promoting this proposal and we are voting in a subsidiary way for the Labour Party's proposal on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1699	The representative, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1704	I just want to explain our vote. We will support the proposals submitted by the Centre Party. Then we will subsidiaryly support the Workers' Party's proposals. It's especially going in and running rules in the way we suggest. At the same time, it should be said that it is not the first time during my 16 years here at Stortinget that I have seen that parties from both the right and the left have interfered in what regulations should be. This is an expression of the lack of trust we have in the way the Council of State is dealing with the railways in Norway. That was the reason why we promoted the proposal, because we believe it is important to meet those requirements of competence. And that's the background for our vote now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1715	Railways are an extremely important part of the transport system in this country. Along with the road, there are people on the railways being transported, getting on their way to the activities they're going to, and there's been something that the government has prioritised. The budget for the railway is 50 pst. higher in 2017 than it was in 2013. It provides an enormous space for action to invest more in new rails, replace worn-out material, buy more trains, set up more departures. Only at Oslo S there are over a hundred more departures now, every day, than it was when we took over. There's a little bit of evidence of how we're thinking that the railway is going to play an even more important role in the future. In particular, it concerns the transport of persons into and out of cities and the transport of goods over long distances. I am proud when CargoNet can report that unforeseen delays in freight transport have decreased by 80 pst. in recent years, pointing out that increased maintenance is the main cause. After the railway decay doubled over the previous eight years, overall maturity has now begun to decrease. Through good cooperation with the civil side in Stortinget, we now see the result. There's no reason to have distrusted the direction that the railway is now taking. Through investment and maintenance and through better organisation, we get more money left, clearer responsibilities, and we see that an already sketching advantage with it. Trust here is important – trust between actors, not least between passengers and train companies. People don't dare enter a vehicle that they don't feel safe. Therefore, our material must be good. We can't have it the way we've had it, with materials that are both 30 and 40 years old, which are almost no longer available for spare parts. That's why we're buying more new train equipment now than we're buying for a long time. But we also have to make sure that those who work on the railway have good competence, can do their job, submit trust and provide good service. There's also some of what we're working on, making sure that you have good jobs that make people think it's attractive to work, that people are recruited into that profession. However, there are many different requirements to meet in order to be allowed to be a driver – requirements for competence in general, a licence shall be available, requirements for competence in the material a driver and requirements for competence in the routes he is driving. There are a lot of rules about this already. In the driver’s regulation, this has become quite clear. There are requirements for what you should be able to do, there is a requirement for you to be able to speak Norwegian. Some give the impression that now the Chinese are going to drive trains in Norway and that there is going to be a jam at the train station in Chinese. No, the requirement is to work on the Norwegian railway, a Norwegian speaking. One should also speak Norwegian in a crisis situation. It shouldn't be enough to say hello and have it; one should be able to communicate when things go wrong. Not least it's important then. It goes without saying that there are very few teachers around the world who have Norwegian as their main language, and who are just waiting to come back to Norway. Here we have a relatively controlled group of people, 1,500, 1600, 1700, who are going to have to do that job further. But we have to make sure that when more people are recruited, they go through proper training with clear requirements for what they should be able to do, so that the standard is good. That is why it became part of the agreement when the government was asked by the strikers whether it would be involved and contribute to a solution. I had been communicating for a long time during the strike that my door is always open if the state can join in and find solutions to the conflict. We got an enquiry. The next day they got a receipt, the strike was over, and they started a work to clarify some of the uncertainties that they pointed to was there. A job has been done by the actors to look at the driving regulations to remove the interpretation possibilities that were, which could be interpreted in such a way as to avoid any claims. The supervision believed that this they had control of, but in order to remove any doubt, a job was done. The Railway Directorate has been involved in this work. There are a number of requirements that are becoming even clearer now, for what one should be able to do. In addition, a national standard is developed for what to learn, how to learn, precisely in order to eliminate doubt. So it's important here that it's the supervision that's going to help us see that the actors that's involved are doing well enough to ensure safety. But let's never take away the responsibility that it's those who actually carry out the tasks, who have the primary responsibility. It can't be that there's going to be sports to avoid being discovered and having a bad culture; the goal must be that everyone should take responsibility for the development of culture, and then the supervision should be the one behind the mirror that makes you know that if you don't do your job, society will see one in the cards.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1734	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1777	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Marianne Aasen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a legislative amendment requiring private schools and colleges to be organised as self-owning foundations, in accordance with the model of the Danish Law on Health Schools and Private Primary Schools’. The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e1800	The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e2212	Alternatively, between the appointment of the Committee to the fourth paragraph of Section 8-3 and the new fifth paragraph of Section II of Section 15 and proposal No 1 of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, which reads as follows: ‘In Law No 1 April 2005 15 on universities and higher education are amended as follows: Paragraphs 8 to 3 shall be replaced by the following: Private universities and colleges which do not receive State grants may not make distributions arising from the income sources of the accredited part of the educational institution. In Law 20 June 2003 No. 56 on vocational education is amended as follows: Paragraph 15 shall be replaced by the following: Private specialised schools which do not receive government grants may not make distributions arising from the income sources of the approved part of the educational institution.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e2239	The remainder of I and II and III are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e2249	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e2260	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e2269	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Christian Thinning Bjørnø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Iselin Nybø on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No 4, from Ivar Odnes on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 5-14, from Iselin Nybø on behalf of the Left
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e2287	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-14, from the left. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests national requirements for minimum standards for digital tools.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the ICT Strategy to consider setting up a public national portal for digital learning materials for Norwegian and foreign suppliers that meet specific quality requirements and where schools can purchase digital learning materials supported by government grants.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the ICT Strategy to consider setting up a digital text and education bank, where teachers and students can find up-to-date, varied information covering the subject and themes of all stages of the school, available free of charge to students in digital form’. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess a national system for the dissemination of best practice in the use of digital learning materials and systems for learning analysis in education’.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider removing the VAT on digital learning materials in order to make them equal to printed textbooks.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the municipalities, individual schools and individual teachers have real freedom to choose and test digital learning tools in the classroom.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the ICT strategy to facilitate dialogue and cooperation between professional environments working with digital technology and schools, with the aim of integrating ICT in education and training, and the existence of a training offer in the field of school programming.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government in the work on the ICT strategy to take action to ensure that teachers, teacher students and school leaders are given the necessary ICT skills, including measures to increase the digital competence of teacher training.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess ICT summer school for teachers by model from Oslo School in its work on the ICT strategy.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to assess an indicative standard for ICT equipment per student at different class stages’. The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e2352	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide the Stortinget with a national strategy for digitisation in school.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e2369	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review incentive schemes and purchasing schemes for learning material with a view to increasing the level of equality between digital and analogue learning material.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e2386	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to design and present a national strategy for digitisation at the School of Stortinget. The strategy should include at least proposals for a national effort to develop educational software, a teacher competence development plan, an investment in infrastructure and proposals for a national purchasing system for digital learning material.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an overview of the digital status of Norwegian schools in terms of infrastructure, teachers’ competences, access to digital learning materials, time use and other relevant topics.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e2420	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e2460	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to do so in the context of the implementation of RV. 3/rev. 25 Ommensvollen-Grundset/Basthjørnet in Hedmark see the road project in conjunction with planned railway operations in the area, ensure that the project does not lead to an increase in either passenger car traffic or road freight transport and ensure that road safety is improved without deterioration of local air quality.» First of all, there is a vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e2502	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e2510	The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e2527	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Karianne O. Heavy on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, from Iselin Nybø on behalf of Left In the course of the debate, the proposal from the Left is transformed into a transmission proposal and is amended accordingly. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government ensure that toll station No. Move 5 from the proposed location in Fv. 415 Lower Stokka road to the ramp to E39 at Lower Stokka road if Stavanger municipality itself wishes this." The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any responsibilities. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size is requested by the government to cover up to 70 pst. of the investment costs of the Bus Road, subject to full agreement between the State, the County/Borby of measures in the housing and land policy as significant congestion around the nodal point, etc.» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e2611	During the debate, three proposals were put forward in total. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Karianne O. Heavy on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 3, from Janne Sjelmo Nordås on behalf of the Center Party There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the Government to amend the driving regulations §§ 18 and 21, cf. Railway Act § 6 as follows: § 18 Licence training requirements are replaced by the following: To be certified, a driver is required to have: a. passed the examination from the vocational training school of train drivers; or b. passed the train driving course of the NSB School; [[before 1 January 2005]] c. approval as driver of trains on the national network of another EEA country; or d. licence and/or licence training within the enterprise. In addition, drivers recruited in accordance with subparagraph (c) must be trained in Norwegian driving regulations corresponding to the level of competence specified in subparagraphs (a) and (b). For drivers recruited after point (d), the part of the licence training chosen to be carried out internally on the company but normally carried out at Norwegian Railway School shall be NOCUT-approved, i.e. approved by the ‘National Quality Board for Education’, using the same pedagogical structure and learning objectives as Norwegian Railway School. § 21 Training centres are replaced by the following: Training centres carrying out training for drivers under § 17 and § 18 [[University School Act]] The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e2660	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish a national certification system for drivers’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the legislation in such a way that it is clear that in order to be certified as a driver, a trainee must have passed an examination from a specialised training school for train drivers, or have passed the NSB School’s train driver’s course, or have passed the train driver’s licence from another EEA country supplemented by training in Norwegian traineeships at the level of vocational education and with requirements for adequate Norwegian skills, or have a licence and/or certificate in-house at the company in accordance with the principles from and at the level of training from Norwegian Railway School.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they are now supporting the proposals of the Workers' Party in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-30.ana.ud60e2742	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
