ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e61	Honourable co-representatives! Former PAC Christian Erlandsen is dead, 90 years old. Christian Erlandsen was born on 2 March in Aker municipality. He graduated from Artium in 1944. In 1945 he was among the first Norwegian students to have the opportunity to study medicine in Denmark to remedy the medical shortage in Norway after the war. He became a cand.with. in Copenhagen in 1952 and specialist in psychiatry in 1963. Except for a period as a general practitioner in Stange, Erlandsen dedicates his entire professional life to psychiatry. His name is inextricably linked to Sanderud Hospital, where he began as an assistant in 1955. He was a superior and chief of staff from 1969 to 1994, only interrupted by a period as head of the Directorate of Health and a two-year period as a state psychiatrist in Hedmark and Oppland. Christian Erlandsen had a strong local political commitment and was a member of the Stange municipal government for a total of 28 years – both before and after the periods as a big business representative. He was also active in county politics as an alternate to Hedmark County Council for 16 years. He had a number of municipal and county councils, among others. as Chairman of the Hospital Study in Hedmark. In 1977 Christian Erlandsen was nominated by Hedmark Right as Lars T. Platous's successor at Stortinget. The mandate was not of the safest, but the right kept the mandate, and Erlandsen was elected to the Stortinget. The Erlandsen sat on the Stortinget for two periods and became the first alternate in the 1989 elections. At Stortinget, Erlandsen was constantly on the Social Committee and played a significant role as the Høres leading spokesman in social and health policy. The biggest issue was perhaps the Willoch government's proposal for the major reform of the primary health service – a proposal that was also disputed within the non-socialist parties. There is little doubt that Christian Erlandsen's diplomatic abilities and whole-hearted efforts were absolutely essential for the adoption of the bill. Christian Erlandsen was a very casual and pleasant person and had friends across all party lines in Stortinget. We remember Christian Erlandsen for his work in Stortinget and shine peace over his memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e86	The representative Ketil Kjeseth, who has been on leave, has once again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Tove-Lise Torve and Steinar Reiten For the South-Trundellag County: Ferhat Güven An application for sick leave has been lodged with the representative of Sylvi Graham from 31 January onwards. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and granted: The Vara representative of Akershus, Thore Vestby, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e124	Thore Vestby is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e142	The President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines be given with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e153	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for a good account and review of the situation we are now in after the treatment of last year's wolf reports and predatory comparisons, which also included wolves, from both 2004 and 2011, which are no longer present. The left regrets it. We negotiated an agreement. But four parties – the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party – wanted to get a treatment that gave you a lower goal. From our point of view, when we no longer have a deal, the level of conflict will be even higher. I think we can see today that this is exactly what has happened. The Council of State pointed out the situation that today we have some sixty wolves — perhaps 70 — in Norway. As pointed out in the wolf report, we could have a situation – due to the limitations of the Nature Diversity Act and the obligations of the Berne Convention, where there is also a requirement for damage potential for the harvesting of wolves – with a higher population than that of the stock target set by the Storting. There was no doubt about it when we had the treatment of the wolf message. It is important to point out that it is the Stortinge that has adopted the Nature Diversity Act, which has decided that we should accede to the Berne Convention, and which, of course, has also taken its decisions in connection with the wolf notification. Once we've ended up in this situation, the Left believes that the Council of State has acted quite correctly, i.e. that he has requested a legal assessment as to whether he could permit and approve the killing permits of the predators. And the answer is quite clear: with the four flocks involved – three within the wolf zone, one outside the wolf zone – it is not a potential for damage, and therefore no basis for taking these flocks out. When we have this situation with a higher population, the Left believes that it is right to look at the management of this population, that it is right to lower the threshold for the extraction of animals outside the wolf zone, as the Council of State has also suggested, to have a better monitoring of the wolf population within the wolf zone to see if there is a potential for harm and whether there are individual animals that can be close to people. We believe that the Council of State has followed up. But basically, this is about having a government based on the fact that today we have a higher level of population. It must be the starting point for further political work, and not what the majority is intensely trying to do, to pursue a policy in which to actively shoot this population down. The background to the situation we are in is that predatory policies work. The twofold objective of having predatory priority areas and grazing areas works by having loss rates on livestock that go down. With the four flocks concerned, there is almost no loss as it is today, and that is why we can have a population — with no negative effects — that is at a somewhat higher level than that indicated by the majority and where Norway can also take responsibility for the preservation of the Scandinavian wolf population. We cannot address what is legitimate concern, which we are going to take seriously, but as I think we should support more in municipalities with populations of wolves, assimilate it with a real threat from the wolf that provides the basis for shooting down. Concern must also be met with knowledge and support, but it cannot be a basis for shooting more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e166	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e171	I have to say that I listened with interest to the representative Elvesuen now, because he tried to say that it was actually not a settlement that helped to make the situation so conflicty. It may be that you do not have an agreement at the bottom that does not include the Left, but there is a fairly broad majority in the Storting as – based on, among other things, on the issue. an assessment of the damage potential of the wolf, which is related to the wolf, for us and for others living in the wolf zone – it is reasonably obvious that what is now creating conflict is not that it has been reconciled, but that the reconciliation is not followed up. I have to ask the representative Elvesuen whether he is not now beginning to be concerned about – considering us who are followers of a two-part objective – that the legitimacy of this objective is in the process of being confused, if the government does not deliver what the Stortinget has said.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e178	I think it is important that the government delivers on everything that the Storting has decided. You have to deliver on the Nature Diversity Act and on the Berne Convention, and you have to deliver on the wolf message. You're going to have to take the problems that the population that we have actually causes. It's a reality that there's almost no loss with the wolves we're talking about now, the four flocks. You have to take a concern seriously, but of course it's not that the wolf itself is some reason to be concerned about people. I think it would have been an advantage if we still had a deal in Stortinget – and not just a majority – as the starting point for the job we now need to do. We need to have an administration that assumes that it's now a larger population. But it is not a major problem or aggravating situation in the case of loss of grazing animals or that this poses some danger in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e187	I do not share Elvestuen's view of the potential for damage and danger. I think the Elvesu has also been in the areas where this is happening. It is a significant damage potential, and the concern is that when you do not now actively license cases, we will get as many young animals that do not know borders – either in the wolf zone or outside the wolf zone. So the potential danger of damage that exists next summer is not something that politicians want to bear any responsibility for. This is about damage to grazing animals outside the zone, it is about hunting and recreational activities, and I think we have been fully documented, including by scientists who are good at this, that if we get so many nearby animals – wolf – that we now experience, we need to have a certain understanding that people are worried about themselves and theirs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e192	In the case of losses outside the wolf zone, having a larger population would mean that the threshold is lower for animal procurement. It is a fact that Norwegian reptiles tend to go east, while Swedish reptiles tend to go west. That situation would not change even if the majority had got their wishes fulfilled. Secondly, in a situation where there is more prey — especially elk — in Norway than there have been in many decades, there can be no problem in itself that wolves eat elk. Thirdly, that is the concern that people have. You have to take it seriously, and you have to meet it with knowledge. We have to meet with it that you have to be prepared if situations arise with individual animals that are too close. We also have that situation today. But you have to meet it with knowledge – and not just grumble under your concerns and turn it into a fear.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e201	I would like to continue a little bit around it with the potential for damage, because I do not understand the whole discussion. I'd like to ask the head of the Energy and Environment Committee if he can't define the ultimate potential for damage as when he's lost his nutritional basis. Society has pushed away all the land use. Society is a violation of people's quality of life. People are afraid to let their kids go to the bus, and we heard that yesterday. Isn't that the ultimate potential for damage? And then you stand here talking about the damage potential being measured in lost sheep. Can the head of the Committee on Energy and the Environment not deal with the displacement of all off-road operations, and that is the ultimate potential for damage?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e206	The representative Gundersen then departs from what is the very basis of the poaching policy in Norway, to have a two-part administration. The priority areas for predatory game are, of course, agricultural restrictions. Therefore, the Left also believes that it is important that we can also look at support schemes against municipalities that have wolf populations. We think it's reasonable that you should be able to do that. But we don't have to add that it's this increase in the population that makes a kind of foundation for the fact that there's a decline in Hedmark, that it's not good to live in Hedmark, that there's no good growth conditions in Hedmark, because that's of course. It's even a state that might have better times than they've had in many, many years. So I think you paint a very gloomy picture of what, after all, is a limited increase in a wolf population. And based on the traditional assessments of what's damage, that's damage to domestic animals, it's almost not.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e211	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e217	239 days have passed since Stortinget submitted the agreement on the management of wolf in Norwegian nature. It may be good to remember what this debate really should be about. After all, it's the government's follow-up to what's the Big City's very clear majority decision. That's what's explained in the Storting, and that's what's initially interesting to discuss. If we go back the 239 days in time, it is perhaps good to remember that the consensus that was formed – the settlement that was reached – was a demanding, balanced and very sensitive theme that, in my opinion and the Workers' Party's assessment, was landed in a good but balanced way, where different considerations and not least the two-part objective are well covered in what is the proposal for decisions in the Storting. So it took the government 197 days to reach a very controversial conclusion, a conclusion in which the government in practice parked the majority's will, and it without even giving information about it in advance or taking up with the Storting a discussion about the situation in which you had come. It seems to me that most of the efforts of the government in this matter have been used in such a way that the most important thing has actually been to push the decision of the Stortinget by a broad majority. I find little in the statement or in the communication from the decision taken and until today, which bears the mark of an inherent willingness to implement the decision taken by the Stortinget in June. In Report. Article 21 for 2015–2016 on wolf in Norway reads as follows: ‘A policy-adopted stocking objective is a governance tool. It specifies when different agencies have the power to take decisions and provides the basis for implementing different administrative instruments, depending on whether one is above or below the target. It is currently an objective that the wolf population should be managed in such a way as to be as close to the nationally determined stock target as possible.» The decision in Stortinget is quite clear – a very clear decision. There will undoubtedly be 4-6 young people per year, three of whom are in health care. There is no discussion that the stock target has been reached, nor should there be any doubt that the Storting’s intention is to regulate the stock on the basis of the established stock target, in line with what is specifically mentioned in the Report. Article 21 that ‘there is an objective to manage the wolf population in such a way that it is as close as possible to the nationally determined stock target’. Then we have witnessed – and we have to acknowledge that it is there – a legal view from the government, interpreted by the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice, while at the same time there are many other legal considerations in the opinion. The majority have discussed this. We now agree that a very clear one will challenge the space of action that is already established in existing legislation. We believe, for our part, that the space of action is larger than what the government has actually laid down, and that it must be challenged without one having to change the law. We believe that so far we have seen a government that lacks the ability and willingness to find a good solution to follow up the unique and clear decisions of the Storting. When the Workers' Party chose to be part of the agreement, after thorough processes and many encounters with our people around the country – not least in the most affected areas. For the Workers' Party, the most important thing is that we have a government that can trust as much as possible, a government that sees the tension between people and society on the one hand and the predators on the other. That was also the purpose of the conciliation – to dampen an increasing conflict line. Unfortunately, the opposite has happened since the Stortinget reached its decision. The conflict has increased. Trust in the administration is almost gone. The reason is not in Stortinget. It's become a chaotic situation. It is obvious that when something is adopted in the Storting, both the Storing and the population must be sure that decisions are followed up in a good way and that it is the actual will of the Storing that is being carried out. Of course, if the government overlooks this, the government has come into serious trouble. If the government thinks that something is unclear, it is natural that the government comes back to the Storting and is told of any iniquities. In my opinion and in the view of the Labour Party, it is a very important principle that Norwegian predatory game and Norwegian predatory game policy must be managed in such a way that it is the Stortinget that sets the stock targets and the management framework, and that it is the government that follows. The setting of stock targets is a democratic issue and will naturally be done by us in the Grand Duchy, which is elected by the people, and which must be directly responsible for what we do, through elections. Then, as elected representatives, we will consider, as we did last June, the sustainability of the management of predators, the consideration of the population and society, and what is due to international obligations. On the way further, the Workers' Party is very clearly committed to the agreement that was established in June. We believe that this is the right point of balance in wolf management, and we are therefore very pleased that the four parties that agreed last June are still in agreement, and are going to present today two proposals that clearly underpin what was the clear will of the Storting and the majority in June 2016. I also expect a very clear response from the Council of State that the intention is now to follow up and come back to Stortinget in line with the proposal that has been made. This is a very clear message that one should challenge the space of action established by existing legislation and that we are able to implement it in the best possible way for all parties. We are concerned that we should have a balance point in the predatory game policy where conflicts are dampened and trust is built. It is therefore very important now that the decision promoted by the four parties is actually implemented in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e243	Minister for Climate and Environment Vidar Helgesen made a comprehensive statement to the Stortinget on 17 January on the situation that arose when the department converted the decision of the predatory wildlife subjects to bury the wolf both inside and outside the wolf zone. The Council of State pointed out that the administration is now facing a difficult situation, a description I can put myself completely behind. Before I go into the presentation and the measures put forward by the Council of State, I thought to take a little look at what the Stortinget has said on different occasions when the stock targets and stock regulation of the wolf have been discussed. We can start looking back at the treatment of St.meld. No 15 for 2003–2004, Rovvilt in Norwegian nature. Here, the principle of regional administration and eight predatory wildlife subjects was established, and region 4 and region 5 were to share the administrative responsibility for wolves in their own wolf zone. The majority of the Committee was then clear on how to manage the wolf. The majority indicated that: «by the law of the wild, if there is any surplus in addition to the required stocking target, it is necessary to open the licence for hunting on the wolf by means of its own regulations. The hunting of wolves may also be carried out in accordance with specified criteria within the management area if this is appropriate for regulating the stock.» Furthermore, there was a majority in favour of: ‘The Government requests the management of predators based on national stock targets with the following populations: – Wolf: 3 annual juveniles within the new wolf zone.’ In this case, too, reference was made to our obligations under the Berne Convention, which Norway ratified in 1986, and that it was not a question of whether we should have predatory game in Norwegian nature, but where we should manage it, and how. Then came the nature diversity law in 2009. Here, too, the management of predatory game was a central theme, and not least the question of how the 2004 rapprochement was to stand in relation to the nature diversity law. The Right Party and the Progressive Party sought their own legislative formulation which stated that the administrative objective of the Act should not apply to species for which there are other national administrative guidelines. This was not accepted, but the majority of the Committee was clear on the question: ‘The majority recall that the policy of the Government regarding the main predators is based on the predatory settlement, cf. St.meld. [[2002-2003]] No 15 In 2011, there was a new robberies settlement in Stortinget, this time as a proposal for a representative that all parties were behind. The first point of the Decision is as follows: ‘Norwegian wild game management shall take place within the framework of the provisions of the Nature Diversity Act and its treatment by the Storting, the Berne Convention and the two-part objective of the 2004 paper game settlement and its follow-up.’;» Finally came the new deal based on Message. St. 21 for 2015–2016, Wolf in Norwegian nature. It is recalled that the principles of the 2004 and 2011 comparisons will form the basis for the further management of Norwegian wolf by nature, together with the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act, and thus implicitly the treatment of that wolf by the Storting. I believe that from 2004 onwards, the majority of the population in the United Kingdom have been clear and clear that there should be a stockpiling target in Norway and that the wolf should be managed in line with these objectives. So what's new now? In my opinion, the answer to this is simple: for the first time since 2004, we have now reached the set stock targets in Norway for wolves. This could have happened during the period of the red-green government, both before and after the adoption of the Nature Diversity Act, but this was done in 2015–2016. In many ways, it can be claimed that predatory policies have been successful, as the stock target has now been reached. It is worth remembering here some representatives from other parties that the past stock targets of three Helenian young people are now exceeded by four, i.e. over a double compared to the old target of three Helenian young people, a goal that has otherwise been passed on in the new agreement. It is also new that frontier flocks have to count, and when the authorities made their decisions, there were four cross-border flocks. This was a very important clarification for all of us who live in the wolf zone and live across the border with Sweden. It is difficult to accept that wolves staying in Norway should not be counted in a stock target. Then go to the contents of the statement. I perceive that the Council of State and the Government are clear that they will implement the decision of the Storting, and are working to find solutions to the situation that has now arisen. A good step on the way came yesterday afternoon, when the government announced that the hunting time within the zone would be extended to 31 March, with the reason to take into account new knowledge that will continuously come from the radio-labelled wolves. The labelling information will also provide a better basis for assessing killing in the current period. Furthermore, the Council of State announced that he would present to the Ministry of Justice and Defence the question of whether the Law of Nature on Diversity could provide a basis for killing due to the negative impact of the wolf on hunting rights. That's good, and I hope the Council of State can also get an assessment of how the different wolf settlements of the Storting are reflected in the understanding of the legal text, and what the scope of action it implies. I have explained the background for this earlier in the article. There is a proposal in the case which was previously referred by a representative. I want to link some comments to this. The proposal is supported by the four parties that supported the 2016 conciliation. The council has already announced that he will come back to Stortinget with a case, and in the proposal we are clear that we want an emphasis on the natural diversity law § 18, first paragraph, points (b) and (c) as important to fulfill the agreement. Furthermore, we set a deadline for the government to come back with the matter, so that we can ensure a thorough treatment in Stortinget during the current period. The right-hand approach to this debate has always been that we want to implement the decision of the Stortinge from June 2016. It was a good and carefully balanced settlement with a clear intention to mitigate the level of conflict. The decision was based on previous settlements and provided a clear framework for the population of wolf Norway, in the same way as earlier settlements have done. With that decision and the clear assurance of the Council of State that he will follow it up, I look forward to the matter being referred to the Stortinget as soon as possible, and by 10 March at the latest, as suggested in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e287	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e292	After all, it is a new exercise that the government party Right asks the government party Right to read the whole law – that in addition to reading Section 18, first paragraph, point (b) should also read the letter (c). It is clearly a new parliamentary practice that Mr Stortings-Höhrer must ask the Prime Minister and the Council of State to read the whole text of the law. It's amazing, but it's good that they ask them to read the whole law. It should have been done before. I have a question for the representative Milde: when I read the proposal, I'm afraid that this is just going to be new rounds, new investigations, new games, new circuses, new tips. Is it possible for the representative to guarantee that there will be an act of violence in place this winter?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e299	The proposals we are promoting today are part of building up under the agreement we had in June 2016. That's the basis for that. We believe that this implies a clear expectation that the government will turn every stone it is possible to turn within the current law, in order to find solutions that open up a license hunt, even within this hunting period. But when we ask the government to come back with a matter of exactly that, I will wait for them to come back with that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e308	That's a real answer, so you say you don't know. We in the Central Party find it very problematic that we cannot be clarified, even in this debate, that the legally adopted decision on the wolf act should be implemented in this season. It is thanks to the fact that Prime Minister Erna Solberg and the State Council, Vidar Helgesen – in a very bad way – have not informed that there were challenges, they have not informed the Storting about what challenges were. It appeared on December 20, 2016. Do right-wing representatives of the Stortinge feel that the government has carried out the agreed predatory settlement in a good way?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e315	That's the whole background for us standing here today. We want the government to go even more thoroughly into the law, for our whole principle and the entire predatory settlement that we agreed on in June – that is what is the Right Policy. That's what the Right Magnification Group is behind. And that's a very carefully balanced deal, which has been discussed by many. That's what we want to do. Then the government has made its decisions, and we are now asking for a new assessment, where they will turn each stone to look at the possibility of the June conciliation being carried out. That's what the Right Policy is in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e322	No matter what the Central Party representative says, the situation we've been in is not surprising. This is clearly communicated, even when we dealt with the wolf message. We now have an exit of 18 animals. We have a little less than 70 animals in Norway and so we have an exit of 18 animals that are already there. The paragraph on which the majority now wants to look again is only about individual animals, which have unusual behaviour and which may pose a security threat. It can only be used in the case of individual animals and cannot provide a broad basis for the collection of animals without amending the nature diversity law. Then my question becomes: Is it still this way for the Right that the law of nature diversity is established?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e329	To put it that way, there's nothing in the proposal we're making that something is going to change in the Natural Diversity Act. The government may make its judgements when they present the matter, but the proposals that exist here, from the four parties, do not specifically mention that the law should be amended. With regard to the possibilities of taking individual animals, it is the information that the Council of State has also requested when it has now opened for hunting until 31 March – to see if any new information can be obtained that provides a basis for licensing within the zone. And then we're going to be waiting for the information that's coming to us to be sufficient. We have a hope that it can be opened for license hunting in the current period. The most important thing for the Right, on which I have been very clear, is that the 2016 agreement will be implemented – in the same way as with stock targets in previous settlements, which also left behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e338	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e343	I dare say that the agreement we got in place in June was a well-balanced decision by Stortinget. It was about both the number of young people and a slightly smaller wolf zone, and we saw very quickly that this was well received in the population. But it's also true in the case of wolves, that it's very difficult to make everyone a team. There are no parties that are capable of doing so. Each lot struggles with its own relationship to itself, because there are many different opinions about wolves – it engages. Yesterday, between 3,500 and 4,000 people demonstrated on the outside of Stortinget, and it was a little strange to see that the great slogan behind the stage went out to follow up the wolf settlement of Stortinget. It is therefore not the decision of the Storting that has created conflicts in this matter, but the follow-up to the decision. This concerns both the work done by the State Council of Helgesen and the ministry's treatment of the wolf settlement. As I say, it is impossible to make all layers in the case of wolves, but it is essential that decisions are followed up. Following up decisions creates confidence. Unfortunately, we see that the opposite happens: predatory game subjects are dropped, and parts of the management system are due. Someone might want to welcome this chaos. Well, it doesn't do the Advance Party or the other parties behind the deal. There are also many different views of the Ministry's opinions on understanding the law. But such an opinion does not determine what results from law or treaty, and it does not bind anyone, according to Professor Eivind Smith. Both the law and the Berne Convention operate with some very large discretionary judgements. The Council of State’s interpretation of the legal concept is too narrow, considers the Progress Party. Therefore, the four settlement parties ask for a broader understanding of the natural diversity law, so that many conditions other than only damage to sheep or domestic animals are assessed. The first paragraph of Article 18(b) and (c) of the Nature Diversity Act provides for a much broader understanding than the government and the Council of State have so far assumed. We also refer to the regulatory changes in the comments made on this, dated 20 June 2016, which also help to narrow the understanding of the potential damage. Here we ask for changes and point out again demands for a broader understanding based on the Nature Diversity Act, but without creating a new law, because then we can quickly end up in a situation where it will take both one and two years, the wolf population will increase, the conflicts will increase, and we will end up in a situation that I believe – at last – nobody in this house wants to welcome. It is therefore important that the work now to be undertaken by the Council of State and the Ministry is based on an interpretation of the Nature Diversity Act. We don't want to put in place a new law. It must be within the bounds that are there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e357	Is the representative Fredriksen going to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e362	Yes, I'm dealing with the proposals No. 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e367	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen then addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e374	It's interesting to hear the figures of the government parties in today's debate. The new quote today from the Advancement Party is that each party struggles a little bit with its relationship with itself, as we heard in Fredriksen's speech. Then is my question to Fredriksen: Sliter The Progress Party on Stortinget a little with its relationship with the Progress Party in government, which is responsible for the chaos that has now arisen, and which Fredriksen said no one could welcome? So simple: does the Progress Party on Stortinget think that the government has done a good job of following up the wolf settlement of Stortinge or do they not think so?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e381	We don't think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e386	I will not take up the last answer, but I will be happy to say that the representative is also concerned that the law on natural diversity is firm. But I would like to ask a question about the proposal of the Progress Party, which has been a driver to extend the licence hunting period also within the predatory game zone until 31 March. There's a reason there's a difference outside and inside. Outside it is March 31st because there should be no family groups, while within the wolf zone it is February 15th, because there are family groups. When one expands this zone, a few will have a situation where one challenges to break the breeding period of the wild. I perceive that the Progress Party is a party that has been concerned with animal welfare. Here we're going to have a situation where one can shoot pregnant bitches, that one can shoot males, and one gets wolf puppies starved in the heel. Then I ask, does the representative not see anything ethically problematic in accepting such a change?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e393	It may be ethically problematic, but we also see that this year it is actually an exceptional year because the reconciliation that the four parties have made, so far has not been followed up. Then you end up in a dilemma by allowing 40, 50, 60 buses to go to Oslo once a month to demonstrate against it, or are you going to allow yourself to face a situation where you are going to take out the number of wolves that the Storting has actually decided?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e398	In proposal No 6, on behalf of the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party and Christian People's Party, ask the representative Fredriksen government to look at Section 18 of the Natural Diversity Act with a view to placing more emphasis on damage potential. But here's what it says: ‘It is assumed that if new information on the potential for damage or other material information makes it possible within the framework of the applicable legislation, a fall in the licence will be opened for the wolf in excess of the number already determined for the current year.’; Many of us now believe that information about the damage potential and damage done by these wolves is very well documented already. Can the representative, Fredriksen, confirm that if new information does not come, then the Progress Party will not go in to trap more animals than the government has so far provided?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e408	To this extent, there is a correct understanding, but it now turns out that in the case of radiolabelling and that bit, it can well be that too many animals are too close to where people live, and can create conflict situations, fears, etc. It is then clear that such a situation should arise, we must also allow the killing of these animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e413	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e418	The background to this debate is the presentation made by the Council of State a few weeks ago. We are pleased with that statement, which, in our opinion, gave the first signals that the government would look at this matter with slightly different eyes than one had previously done. It is not a simple matter we are discussing today. After the wolf was almost gone from the Norwegian fauna for a long time, we now have more wolf than in a long time. It's a result of a policy that almost all of the parties here, at some point, have come to their senses. But the same parties have also stood for, and stand for, a balanced wolf policy, which must also take other interests into account. We from the Christian People's Party are therefore fully behind the wolf settlement, not just as compromise, but because it is a right and balanced policy. As noted in the comparison: « once the stock target has been reached, stock regulation shall be implemented, and then primarily through licence hunting. [[...]] Licensing gives local communities and rightholders/meres both a responsibility and a role in the regulation of stocks that are positive’ – and important in this picture. We must have a balance between protection and extraction when the stock measure we have set is achieved. Without this being realized, it'll be reconciled as we were part of, very little worth. We have – and it has not been for the first time – also stressed the quality of life of people living in these areas. It was important in the context of the 2011 conciliation, and it has been important in this matter. I also perceive that the Council of State in its statement of 17 January, in a slightly clearer way than before, allowed this meaning. The reconciliation balances these different considerations. When you rock too much of the equation, which we believe the government has done in its understanding of the law, it becomes troubled. There will be concerns at a level that we agreed that the settlement would ensure that we did not get, namely that the level of conflict should be mitigated. It was also a very important part of what we agreed on. There we have to see that we are now. is not, and the government bears a great responsibility for it. The four parties have now agreed to clarify what expectations we have of the government's follow-up. I attend with excitement how the Council of State will mention this in its statement. That, I think, is very crucial because whether there is more peace – a necessary calm – on this matter than what we have seen now. Nor can I fail to say, given the way in which the government has informed the Storting in this case, that I have seen matters where it has been done in a much better way, and then I express myself carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e437	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e442	The recent political debate on wolf in Norway started about 1996 with the State Council of Thorbjørn Berntsen from the Workers' Party, which brought with it the Christian People's Party, and thus forced the rest of the Workers' Party to say that we should have wolf in Norway. It's almost history. The argument then was that it was a southern Scandinavian wolf tribe that was genetically unique and important to care for. Now the representative Hans Olav Syversen says that the wolf was almost gone from the animal for a long time. Note the term ‘wolf was almost gone in Norwegian fauna for a long time’. The Ministry of the Environment has repeatedly demonstrated that the wolf was gone. There is no southern Scandinavian tribe of its own that is genetically unique. My question is: can the representative Syversen prove that there has been wolf in Norway continuously until today, and that we have a unique genetic wolf strain in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e449	I think I'm going to be very careful to stand up as a scientist on that very question, but what the representative has to agree with is that all the parties, more or less, in this room have agreed that yes, it has to be wolf, but it has to be taxed. It was also the opinion of the Center Party when they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e454	At least I believe that the Left and Christian People's Party agrees that there should be wolf in Norwegian nature. But the Christian People's Party is concerned with quality of life, and that's important and good. One side of the wolf policy is that it works, namely by reducing the loss rates for grazing animals. With the flocks that you've been talking about here, there's almost no loss in grazing animals. In order to reduce the level of conflict, the Christian People's Party is also willing to look at measures other than increased withdrawals, such as: information to address the concern, to be taken seriously, or the possibility of increased support for wolf-population municipalities, in order to counteract the entirely legitimate dampening of the agricultural opportunities that exist there, or other measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e461	We agree to look at different measures, but we stand firm that what we agreed in the four parties in June is the most important contribution to reducing the level of conflict. That's why it's interesting that as many as might have been skeptical about the deal, the last few days have been very solid about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e466	So I have to say it's a pretty interesting circular discussion when you talk about loss. Well, when people end up with sheep inside the son, what happens? Do the losses go up or down? It is a self-explanatory response and cannot be used as an argument in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e469	The representative Hans Olav Syversen complains about the government's poor information to the Storting about the consequences of the wolf settlement that was adopted before the summer. The question then is: Is it a surprise for the Christian People's Party that we have a natural diversity law that sets specific requirements for how wolves should be hunted and managed in Norway? And is it a surprise to the Christian People's Party that a decision to reduce the Norwegian wolf population would have to be implemented very vigorously in accordance with the natural diversity law that the representative Syversen himself has participated in?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e474	It is no surprise that we have a natural diversity law. What we've been very surprised about is the subtle interpretation that the government has made, which is now increasing the level of conflict, and which now gives us a level of conflict that I'm sure the government itself would wish it had avoided in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e479	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e484	I think it is important to state that today's discussion is not about what wolf policy we are going to have. It has been decided by the Storting. It adopted the Stortinget in June last year. The Stortinget then decided that we should have four to six juveniles and that border revir should be included with 0.5. Today we are far above the stock target, and that's the outlet to come down to the stock target that the Storting has actually decided, we're discussing today. It's not that hard to be a councillor. There are two important tasks when you are a Council of State. One is to implement the decisions of the Stortinge. The second is to comply with the constitutional disclosure obligation to Stortinget. The recipe, whether you are unable or unwilling to implement the Stortingen decision, is that you immediately contact the parties in Stortinget and inform them that this is going to be difficult in relation to the law and regulations etc. – in other words, that you fulfil your obligation to provide information. But today we are facing a government and a government council that does not follow the decision of the Storting, and that did not bother to inform the Storting about it. On the contrary, the Council of State waited until the very last week before Christmas before he most surprisingly left the news that Storting’s decision had been set aside. In this way it could be hoped that the news would drown, and at the same time, it could be almost certain that the planned whaling act could not be carried out as planned in winter. After such conduct one has to ask whether one can trust the government's ability to follow decisions in the Storting and to comply with its disclosure obligations towards Stortinget. The answers given by the Council of State and the Government today and in the weeks ahead, and the actions of the government in the weeks ahead, will have to decide such a question. In fact, as early as July/August, the Council of State could have notified the Stortinget that the Ministry has tightened the assessment theme of the predatory game regulation and given more importance to the damage potential in relation to stock targets than in the past. In fact, as early as early as November, the Ministry was able to notify the Stortinget that it was difficult for them to follow up the Stortingen decision. But none of it was done. Instead of looking for action spaces to comply with the Storting decision, the Council of State has sought arguments to override the decision of the Storing. This matter becomes more and more strange almost every day that goes. With its unwillingness to inform the Stortinget, the government has achieved one thing, and it is that there will be no turbulent act this winter that is consistent with the decision taken in Stortinget this summer. So you could do one thing, that's to train the decision of the Storting this winter. This winter has been lost as regards stock management of wolves, and as a result the stock of wolves will also increase sharply in the future. It's pretty good guess to be able to say that for the autumn we're going to be left with a higher stock of wolves than what we've had at the entrance to this winter season. We will again be far above the stock target, because even with the proposals that are being promoted today, which are price-worthy proposals from the bulk of the population, we are in such a situation that one could hardly take out any more individuals than the Council of State has already announced, 15 wolves that have already been decided to take out. It is probably the case that this matter is, in fact, largely about who is in charge of Norwegian poaching policy. Is it the Storting, or is it the environmental bureaucracy? Perhaps the decisions made today, and their follow-up in practice, could tell us a little bit more about that. What kind of opportunity you have to fulfil the decision of the Storting depends entirely on what is presented by the government later in ours. But I have to say that with the answers given in the line changes from the government parties here today, and also with the posts coming from the government parties today, I would probably, if I had been part of this government, have taken this in a very serious way. I assume that the government is listening, and also that the majority in the process is sticking to their demands. With that I will be able to bring up the proposal of the Centre Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e499	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e507	The representative Arnstad is very concerned about the follow-up to the majority decision from the treatment of the wolf report last year, despite the fact that we now have a withdrawal of 20 pst. of the stock. My question is, what is the goal of the Central Party? Because in the context of the wolf report, the first proposal from the Central Party was to ask for a derogation from the Berne Convention, so that we would not have wolves in Norway. Then my question is: is it the press the Center Party is running, really just having an extermination policy with regard to wolves in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e512	It is right that the Central Party should promote its own proposals in the course of last June's debate. Then we said that we wanted three young people, and that the young people in the border area counted by. That was our proposal in that debate – just as the Left had its own proposal. But what today's debate is about is not. There's no rematch on the decisions that were made last June. What today's debate is about how to follow up the actual decisions taken by the Storting last year and how the government and the state councils have behaved in that context throughout the whole harvest and until today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e517	The next question will be the follow-up. We're going to follow several laws, we're going to follow the Nature Diversity Act, we're going to follow the commitments of the Berne Convention, and we've reduced the limit of getting withdrawals to get more dot withdrawals from the situation we're up in – but within the law. The question is then: is the Central Party still insisting that the Law on Natural Diversity should be applied, and that it should not be changed, but be as it is today, that is, as the Center Party in its time was for?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e522	Yes, we insist that you do not need to change the natural diversity law. The majority, when the Nature Diversity Act was adopted, were quite clear that predatory wildlife policy should be able to function within the nature diversity law that was passed, and we share the majority's view today that the government's assessment theme in terms of the nature diversity law is far too narrow. They have only selected a small, narrow set of criteria and assessed it legally. They could assess it in a much broader way and probably and hopefully then arrive at a different result from what the government did on December 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e527	I think we agree that what the Storting decided before the summer of the robberies deal was a stock goal, and then we also agree that the Stortinget adopted a natural diversity law that provides guidance on how, among other things, it does. the species of wolf shall be managed and the criteria for shooting animals in the wolf population in Norway. Then we have a situation in which, in accordance with administrative practices, the government asks its administrations both in the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Justice about how to interpret this law, and how to implement a demise that the Storting has requested, and they have given an answer to it. Mr Arnstad disagrees with that answer. It's okay. But does the representative Arnstad think that a direct interpretation of the law made by a majority of the population is going to go beyond the interpretation of the law in departments on the basis of the law that actually exists?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e534	If one reads the Law Department’s interpretation, one sees, first of all, that they conclude with reservations. It's very rare that the Law Department does, but they do. They conclude with a clear reservation, and they also say: We do not have a fact of our own, we are based on the fact that we have received from the Ministry of Climate and Environment. And the fact that they got from the Ministry of Climate and Environment is far too narrow, even under the Nature Diversity Act. They have not chosen to have as broad an assessment theme as they can have after today's natural diversity law. It's a fact. In addition, the majority of the Grand Duchy clearly stated that, at the time of the adoption of the Law on Natural Diversity, the decisions taken on the Law on Natural Diversity should not result in a need to change the principle established in the policy on the use of wild game. That's what the Center Party is all about today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e539	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e544	I came back a few days ago from a trip in Tanzania, a country where 70 pst. the population lives in very poor economic conditions in rural areas by what they can grow on the ground. They are surrounded by lions, leopards, hyenas, crocodiles, cheetahs and other animals that supply both game and domestic animals, and sometimes even people. If there had been a debate in Tanzania's National Assembly, which was at all similar to the debate we have now, on reducing the populations of the major predatory species in Tanzania to a level close to or comparable to that adopted by the majority of the population of the Norwegian wolf, it would be an international raffle rich, and Norway and the Norwegian population would participate in that holocaust. It puts this wolf debate that we now have in perspective. Another perspective is that we know that there is a massive majority in the Norwegian population to have viable populations of wolves. Even in Hedmark, almost 70 pst. the population has saved wolves, within some bounded frameworks. That's the real crowd behind this debate. And when we have a debate that reverses the reality of those degrees of the head, so it seems that the population is those who use their democratic right to face up outside the Storting and say that they don't want wolves – well, then a large number of people turn the reality of the Norwegian population's perception of wolves on their heads, and it shouldn't. The Greens believe that today we have a number of wolves that are quite reasonable as a starting point for Norwegian wild game management. I guess we're in agreement with the Center Party and the SV. By basing on the number of wolves we now actually have, one would probably be able to move towards a conflict mitigation – based on a consideration of Norwegian nature consistent with the rest of the Norwegian natural economy and with it as a very large, though slightly more low-level population figure, both in Hedmark and Norway, actually means. It is interesting how the law is interpreted by the bulk of the population – when you want to extend the term ‘damage potential for wolves’ to the point where there is fear of wolves, and the fact that a wolf, which is thus a predator with teeth, can harm sheep, despite the fact that it is not documented to do so, must be a good enough argument for taking out wolves on a large scale within the predatory game zone. It's ripping away the carpet throughout the whole foundation and the protection of Norwegian predators and then Norwegian nature, because how much longer can you draw such a principle? Once you've chosen one species you don't like, you can pick out several species you don't like. I am therefore impressed and pleased that we have an Environment Minister who sees it as his task to follow the law that the Storting itself has passed, and I am pleased that we have a Prime Minister who, at least until further notice, supports him in it. I hope the Prime Minister will continue to do so. The Helgesen Council of State has put forward a number of proposals to meet the self-reliant majority on the Stortinge. Some of those proposals see the Greens as constructive. It is good that the Council of State has asked for a professional assessment of whether the wolf has actually become less popular. It is good that work is being done by the State's nature oversight in those areas, and that Norway's Hunter and Fishery Associations will be involved in the development of information and guidance on the management of elk populations in areas with wolves. I would like to add that it could be good if the Norwegian Hunter and Fisher Association were also given an obligation to inform about the wolf's actual behaviour and damage potential. And it is good that schemes were investigated with funds for municipalities within the wolf zone, and that several types of compensation schemes were investigated. But the basis must be that we respect the professional reality established by the state's own professional body in the matter, the Art Database. The wolf is a critically threatened species, which Norway has a heavy responsibility to preserve, and that is not the answer to eradicating wolves that have not even done harm.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e557	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e562	The representative Hansson stated that he believed that fear of the wolf was not in itself a relevant argument for increased withdrawals. At the same time, the representative Hansson refers to a visit to a country where large predators take people. It can be interpreted that the Green Party actually sees the acceptability of such a situation as it may be in Norway. I want to give the representative Hansson the opportunity to confirm that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e567	I take the sharpest distance from any insinuation that the Greens have more acceptance than anyone else for predators to take people in Norway, but I thank you for the opportunity to clarify the absolutely natural fact. What I stress is that it is an indispensable fact that the wolf has not harmed people in Norway in modern times. It is also quite important to note that the most important argument used to substantiate fear is that people see wolf in their garden, they see it in the kindergarten, they see it on their way to school, and they see it in the bus stop. Then the next question is, what do these wolves do? Well, they don't do anything. In addition, all the wolves that see people from inside the woods come, without people seeing them. Wolves in Norway have plenty of opportunities to hurt people, but do they? No! No! Should we base that fact on Norwegian administration? Yes! We're going to respect people who fear wolves, but we're not going to start that kind of fear -- just like we don't fear cars, hops, cows, immigrants at the heart of the management of those things.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e575	The centre party is certified for predators in Norwegian fauna. It's part of reality, and we're happy about it. What we're discussing here is the predator called "wolf." It's kind of special -- it doesn't eat blueberries. It is in a different situation than for example: bear. The fact that the Green Party and the Central Party have different opinions on this is one thing, but what we are now discussing is the will of the Storting. What's in the Inner East. 330 S for 2015-2016, on page 17, is as follows: ‘The majority of the committee would stress that once the stock target has been reached, stock regulation is to be implemented and, above all, through licence hunting. Licensing gives local communities and rightholders/meres both a responsibility and a role in the regulation of stocks that are positive. The requirement for stock management also applies within sona and irrespective of the existence of harmful potential on domestic animals and domestic animals. The majority of the Committee would stress that the stock targets set by the Storting are the clear overall decision.’;» Why does the Green Party disagree with this clear wording?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e587	I do not disagree with the wording. I'll take note of it, and I'll take note of two other things. What Stortinget adopted before the summer was a measure of substance. What the Stortinget adopted in the previous period was a law that regulates how stock targets for, among other things, Wolf must be reached – what are the criteria for shooting wolves. I expect the Centerpartiet to agree that Norwegian law should be followed, and I expect the Zenterpartiet not to believe that Norwegian law should be interpreted in hist and pist, as different numbers of cavernants believe different things about the consequences of those laws. So the population has to change the law, and it's really nice that you do, but that's not what we're talking about here and now. So my answer is: we disagree with the goal, but there is another discussion, but we assume that all parties on the Stortinget follow Norwegian law – in this case, the Nature Diversity Act, which says how to achieve the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e594	You have to get quite a long way from Stellas in Trysil to make the kind of arguments we have now heard from the Green Party that the management of the wolf should not at all take into account the fact that quite leading scientists in Norway say that when the wolf starts to get so close, and you have it at the nursery and in the garage, you have to be a little restrained. Should you not be allowed – as the people’s representatives – to say that you want to take a certain regard for it? I understand that even the government wants to take that into account. So I'm going to ask the representative Hansson to elaborate on something that makes so close predators not count in the assessment of how we politicians are going to handle this. Rasmus Hansson was also involved in a finding that the wolf did not take sheep, as I heard him. What kind of empire do you have for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e601	Firstly, there is no disagreement whatsoever that the law allows you to shoot nearby wolves or wolves who are about to do damage. It's not about this discussion at all, and it's a total derailment from the representative of Storberget to put it on the track. What we're talking about is a large-scale population reduction and what are the prerequisites for doing that. If a couple of wolves behave threateningly, it is entirely within the legal framework – and the Green Party fully agrees – that they can be taken. With regard to the damage potential for sheep, the simple fact is that the wolf flocks that are being taken out in this big debate have taken very little sheep, and that is the main reason why the Ministry of Justice, led by the Progress Party, and the Ministry of Climate and Environment, led by the Right, do not find any room in the Nature Diversity Act, which has been promoted and adopted by, among others. The working party, to shoot the wolves.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e608	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e613	The government will implement Stortinget’s decision on the treatment of the stockpiling notification of wolf in Norwegian nature. The stock of wolves shall be as close to the stock target as possible, while management must be within the legal framework established by the Stortinge. We now have more wolves in Norway than ever in modern times. There is a new situation for the government and for the administration. There is a new situation for the Stortinget, and most importantly, there is a new situation for those living in the wolf zone. It's hard for us who don't live with wolves inside us, to understand how the situation is experienced by many within the wolf zone. They're taking a load on behalf of the big community. I understand that many react when people's real fear and feeling of reduced quality of life meet with law paragraphs and dry juice. And I understand the impatience that the settlement parties have in implementing the Storting decision. That's why the government is now working on finding solutions that make Storting's decision, the law and our international commitments as closely as possible. I announced in my statement that the government will come back to Stortinget with a case, and I will follow up the decision Stortinget is making today. The Berne Convention is currently not fully reflected in the Nature Diversity Act. It has provisions which may provide a broader legal basis for the removal of wolves. We also assess this in the light of the Swedish Supreme Court judgment and the EU Species and Habitats Directive. Although the Habitats Directive is not part of Norwegian law, EU Member States constitute a majority of the States under the Berne Convention. This means that their understanding of the Berne Convention is also of interest to Norway. At the same time, several other measures are being taken to remedy the situation. The Directorate-General for the Environment is working on an up-to-date professional assessment of changes in the behaviour of the wolf in the field of cloudiness and whether this could pose a greater risk to people. We also closely monitor whether the evolution of the wolf population means a change in damage potential. And we keep radio marking the wolf in the wolfevir. Radiolabelling also provides knowledge of the wolf’s behavior in terms of population and people. The expansion of the hunting season, which I announced yesterday, will give us the opportunity to take account of new knowledge that will continuously come from the radio-labelled wolves. Labelling information will provide us with a better basis for assessing killing. In the Julussa Revir, the leader’s tick has so far not been found this winter, and when conductive animals disappear, we know that it can affect the wolf flock, among others. when changing reviral limits and by allowing the puppies to start acting closer to people. This is the kind of situation we have to follow closely, and I now prioritise radio marking here as well to find out if there are any changes in the behavior. We are also investigating possible financial arrangements for the loss of any rights or other burdens and funds to municipalities within the wolf zone. We will come back to that in the revised national budget 2017. The Directorate-General for the Environment has now been entrusted with the task of drawing up a competitive basis for tendering for the implementation of a new independent investigation of the genetic origin of the wolf stock. I am very aware that in this difficult situation, it is important to find good ways forward, both for those who have to take the consequences of having wolves in their neighbourhoods, and to ensure that the management of wolves complies with the decisions and objectives of the Storting, the law and international obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e634	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e639	We are in a difficult parliamentary situation linked to this field. The proposal that seems to have a majority today is not so common in the Stortinget – the Council of State and the Government are asked to read the law and come back to Stortinget with a different understanding from what has been perceived in the past, with a time limit. At the same time, we have heard a majority in Stortinget expressing rather so harsh criticism of the handling of this matter by the Council of State and the Government. We heard Fredriksen, we heard the good words of Syversen, we heard Arnstad, we heard Aasland – it is a majority that describes a criticism that, according to my concepts, approaches a parliamentary boundary. Does the Council of State see anything critical of the government's management, linked to this question?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e646	I find that the bulk of the population shows great impatience. That was the case last autumn, when the review of the complaint was carried out. When dealing with a complaint, the Council of State – as the representative Storberget knows – is prevented from commenting on the substance of the matter before the decision is taken. But the understanding that this is a difficult and demanding situation, and the understanding of the impatience in Stortinget, I can assure you that I am taking over. And when the majority of the population now express clear views on the law and the interpretation of the law, it is my duty to follow up the decision of the Storting and come back to Stortinget with a case within the time limit set by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e651	On 20 June 2016, a regulatory amendment was made – Regulation 725 on the amendment of the regulation on the management of wild game, with comments. It was made on the day Stortinget went out for a meeting-free holiday, and it was obviously very urgent to adopt that regulation. It was so urgent that it was not even sent to the hearing, and my question to the Council of State is: How in all days can a Council of State not send out such a change of regulation at the hearing, when one knows what the level of conflict in this matter is?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e656	When the Stortinget made its decision in the wolf settlement, it was a very clear decision both in the case of the zone and in the case of the stock. That was what was important to get laid down in a regulation. In administrative practice, it is possible to revise a regulation without consulting it, if there is a clear and clear decision on size. That was the basis for our priority here to get this out quickly, not least because the predators were waiting for government signals and the follow-up to Storting's decision. Among other things, in dialogue with the predators, we decided that we should get this regulation out quickly, and that it was obviously unnecessary to consult because the content of the regulation would reflect the Storting's decision on the new wolf zone and the new stock target.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e668	I am pleased with how the Council of State now expresses itself in following up the decision of the Grand Duchy. I experience that you might see that you should handle this in a slightly different way. Some point out that the problem is the jeez and the jeez alone. If you look at how the government has argued, it has once been the Berne Convention that has been the problem, the next time it has been the Nature Diversity Act. Then it's been the barbage rule, and then after that, the comments of the barbage rule. I almost have to ask the Council of State: what is what he believes legally has been the problem of following up the decision of the Grand Duchy from June?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e673	The government has always laid the groundwork and has always stated that we want to follow up the decision of the Stortinge from the wolf settlement. Then we received a complaint for treatment as a result of the killing decision of the robbers, and that complaint has to be assessed on the basis of the terms of the law. I paid great attention to the fact that it was not my department's assessments alone that were to be taken into account, and chose to present this in a very unusual way, by the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture was also given its views, which differed from that of my department, and presented it to the government's best legal competence on the question of interpretation of the law. In that context, there was the question of damage potential that was the jumping point. Later we have experience, including: on the basis of the Swedish judgment, that there are other factors than that which have motivated the decision on killing, and that is one of the things we are now looking at.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e680	The representative of Storberget is right that we are approaching a demanding parliamentary situation in Stortinget. In today's debate, we see that even the speakers of the government parties do not defend what has happened during the autumn, in terms of the follow-up – or the lack of follow-up – of the Storting decision. And the representative Syversen is quite right that here you have chosen a varying basis to lean on when it comes to law and regulation. First it was the Berne Convention, then it became the Nature Diversity Act, and then there were changes to the Robbery Ordinance, as one has changed after the conciliation. Governments have had many occasions in the autumn to come back to the Storting and indicate that the decision of the Storting will be difficult to implement. Already during the month of October/November, the department set up and discussed that this became difficult to implement. Why did the Council of State not choose to fulfil its obligation to provide information to the Storting as quickly as possible? Why did he wait until December 20?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e685	Let me first point out that the government was clear in the big news about the wolf that such a situation as this could occur – that we are above the stock target, but at the same time that the conditions of the law had to be present. We knew it, among other things. Because we've been in that situation before. We've previously accepted littering even though we've been far below the stock target. So when you have an administrative complaint for treatment, it's a process that's not purely political, it's also legal. A government council should not comment on the content, because then you can become incapacitated. You have to decide on that complaint on the basis of existing law, you cannot go to Stortinget and ask to have the law amended in order to decide a complaint differently. This meant that we went very thoroughly into the matter, as I said. We wanted the Law Department's assessment on a broad basis to see if there was any way out, but the assessment was clear, and we made the decision we made.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e692	There's a lot of talk about a Supreme Court judgment in Sweden and looking at it. But my question is: Is it really relevant to Norway? It is given in Sweden as they have a much higher population at the bottom. Given that the Norwegian withdrawal from the licensing agreement is already twice as high as the Swedish one, is it not that that wording is really only relevant for managing a higher stock, and cannot be used to reduce the population dramatically, as a majority would like it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e697	It is true that the EU Habitats Directive, on which Sweden is based, is based consistently on higher stock targets and more flexibility in management. But there are two things that are still interesting. Although a Swedish judgment is not directly applicable and can be carried out in Norway, there are two important lessons to be learned. One is that the home of the Swedish Court of Justice is in the Berne Convention, but was not included in the Nature Diversity Act when the previous government introduced that law. It is simply an excuse that has gone away, and we think it should be possible to discuss an adjustment that will make the law of nature more loyal to the Berne Convention. The second is that Sweden and the EU countries constitute a majority of the Contracting Parties to the Berne Convention, which means that their interpretation of the Berne Convention may also be relevant in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e704	I am also pleased with the way the Council of States puts forward in this debate, not least in following up what is probably once again likely to become a very clear majority in the Grand Duchy. I have a question about finding the good ways forward. It was referred to that one had changed the regulations without consultation because the decision of the Storting was very clear. The majority's decision will send a message to the government to amend the regulation on the management of wild game. Can the Council of States now confirm that this will also happen without delay, that it is happening immediately, and that it is not necessary to carry out a hearing on this matter as the Storting is very clear, and that it should obviously be considered unnecessary to carry out a hearing on that amendment?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e713	When the collapse decision is available, and if it is available in the form it appears to be, my assessment is that that regulation can be implemented quickly. It's primarily, I understand, a question about the comments of the regulation. I just want to say that when this regulation had to be amended as a result of the wolf settlement, in order to get the new stock target and the new definition of the zone into the regulation, it was estimated that updates could be made to the comments in the light of the Nature Diversity Act, because it was not done when the Nature Diversity Act was adopted. I have no problem adjusting the regulation as quickly as possible, in line with the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e720	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e725	After hearing the debate so far, I have to say that I do not think the Council of State has made it remarkably easier for itself on this issue. But I sincerely hope that what is now in what it seems to be a majority for, the proposals No. 6 and 7, in fact, have an effect, so that people out there – including those who are followers of the two-part goal, including me seams – feel that you can start building trust and legitimacy again in the entire game management, because it's down. I have registered that the Council of State does not take particular responsibility for the process that has been going on now, at least there has been no criticism whatsoever about it. I would also like to state that using – in the line change with the representative Arnstad – stability as a reason for not informing the Storting must be a constitutional innovation. I believe it would have been decided correctly that the Storting got that information a lot earlier than Christmas, just to prevent us from being in the situation we are doing today, where we see that the hunting opportunities just run out of our hands. The message from many of those who are particularly concerned about this is that it is now holding. Now it has to be delivered. We have seen a rare absence of implementation of the Storting's will, which, according to my concepts, can only stem from the fact that you actually don't want to. That's what this has to be about. You can read Professor Eivind Smith, you can read other lawyers who have gone into this matter – the representative Arnstad had a good review of it, I don't have time to draw everything. But if you go into the Nature Diversity Act with a look at the Berne Convention, you can see that the themes are there. There is a political room for action according to my concepts in particular with regard to the assessment by the Ministry of Justice's Legal Affairs department, which has made an entirely correct assessment on the basis of the material and conclusions submitted. It is clear that a law department that gets a conclusion on the damage potential must deal with this, but we do disagree with the description that was sent. We also believe that that description was too narrow. I have never understood why there is no greater distinction between Section 18(c) of the Natural Diversity Act, and it is now manifesting itself as a mission to government. I saw in yesterday's VG that a Progress Party representative asked for an extension of hunting time. The council was probably out last night and said he would get it. Today, we send a clear message to the government and the Council of State with a deadline of 10 March – we do not do so often – that we should go through the law we have and look at opportunities. And you're going to change back the regulation you changed, and then in the simplest way possible. This is, in fact, a broad parliamentary side towards a strongly weakened Council of State. It's on the frontier, I see, but an absolutely necessary detailed management of the executive. My hope is that this action pest is not now helping us to almost never get anything done to both take out pests and actively pursue license hunts, which contribute to achieving the Storting's stock objective. I'm in doubt – many of us are in doubt – if this will lead. We feel that we are facing a strongly pursued state council, and to say so in the Central Party language suit: with ‘loose on the driven, necked dog’. It makes us doubtful whether it is at all the ability to do something now that contributes – and it is important – to provide security for many out there, who live daily in this both inside and outside of sona, and who feel insecurity for people, but also for their livelihood. We must also be able to help, if we are able to do something, raise the legitimacy and confidence of the predatory policy. Without it, everyone will lose big.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e739	The representative of Aasland expressed in his statement that last year’s wolf report was a good deal of compromise – and I fully agree with that. It was a crunching well settlement, and a broad settlement, concluded by the Storting. But there also ends the doorway. Now this is not about the wolf's message itself, it's about the implementation of what the Stortinget has decided, and there's some left over – no doubt! It has been said in the debate here that restrictions on agriculture must be acceptable within the zone, but there are soon no more restrictions to accept again within the zone, because there are no grazing animals left within it. Therefore, no more damage is done to grazing animals within the sons, because there is no one left that the wolf can eat – and therefore the damage is as few as I said. In the wolf message, a stock target was set. That stock target has been set to prevent conflict, it has been set to prevent damage, and it has been set to prevent those living within sona from reducing their quality of life. That's why a stock target was set. The higher we go over that stock, the greater the chance of damage, the greater the possibility of conflict, and the greater is the possibility that someone loses their quality of life, because they happen to live within a zone that has been determined by this house. The more wolves, the more likely they are to be injured, the easier it is. It has been said here that concern should be taken seriously, but concern and fear must be met with knowledge. Who knows more about their concerns and fears than those who live in this area? It is not the representative of Elvesuen or the representative of Hansson, it is those who live there and who feel this on the body every day. They have knowledge of what it means to be concerned and to have fear. So finally, the proposal that has been put forward today, on which the settlement parties in the wolf settlement agree, is basically a good one, but there are two things I want to comment on. One is that by 10 March at the latest, the government will file a case for Stortinget. I hope that the words «inner» and «later» are very clear to the Council of State. The sooner it gets done, the better it is, because the problem is that the hunting time runs out at the end of March, and if it's presented on 10 March and then it's going to be dealt with in the Storting, the licenses I have about 14 days to take out the wolf on a license agreement. I don't know if the state council has tried the wolf's act and knows what the wolf's act is, but it's actually not to take the stock exchange and go out into the woods and shoot the wolf you want. This is a predator that is difficult to take. In the last sentence of proposal No: 6 it says: ‘It is assumed that the wolf will be licensed in excess of the number already determined for the current year’ – and beyond: ‘if new information on the potential for damage or other material information makes this possible within the framework of the applicable legislation’;» This is for me to tell those who live in the area, that there has been no damage potential here, there has been no damage done. It's just that you're boring people the way I see it, and I can't accept such a formulation. I am also in doubt whether I can accept such a long deadline, and I regret to say so: I cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e764	A large number of the parties and the voters in Norway want us to have a wolf population. We've wiped him out in the past. Then, through many years of responsible and meeting work, he built up again. The main concept there was the two - part objective of a boat to facilitate grazing in Norway and to have a limited wolf population. It did so by mitigating the conflict as much as possible by supporting the grazing industries through substitution schemes. The way it worked was, in fact, that one has an extreme in the debate, but one also had the Labour Party and the Right who managed to tighten it up, which over the year stood for a long-term policy, but also that we actually had the party with us for long periods in the wolf settlement that – can say – stood for the extremes in that debate. Was it, and is it, difficult with such a divided goal? Yeah, it's hard. It's hard to run a responsible policy where you try to be careful. Let me also say that this is basically a successful policy. The conflicts surrounding predatory game in Norway are considerably less today than they were five years ago or ten or fifteen years ago. We have more predatory game without it leading to increased conflicts. In 2016 there were seven reported – I repeat seven – loss of sheep within the wolfessa, according to Rovbase. The four current families calculate that together they might have taken the lives of 16 sheep in the same area, in an area where there are about 30,000 sheep. There are very limited conflicts in relation to many other challenges related to grazing. So, in my view, Stortinget makes a serious mistake relating to the so-called wolf settlement again this summer – a serious mistake in meaning that it was completely open to someone who did not participate in it, but who has worked a lot with the question of former environmental protection ministers, that one had to do something that could hardly be done. What do I build it on? Yeah, that Stortinget got to know it himself. On questions from the Swedish Government on our international commitments, it was doubtful whether the new stock target was in line with the Berne Convention – dubious – it is open, publicly available to the Stortinget. The decision of the Storting was intended as a maximum limit, but it was just as obvious that it could not automatically lead to the killing of wolves if the number of Norwegian wolves exceeded the stock target. How could we know that? Yes, it was stated in the main message that was the basis here, that it could be problematic – ‘there could be situations where the wolf population is larger than the stock target while there would be no access to the littering’. The size was informed, and if one is not able to take over the information and understand that he can create problems, one cannot blame others. Then you have to take responsibility for yourself. The government has, in my view, followed up the decision to collapse within laws and international commitments, just as the government's task is. What is sad, on the other hand, is that the two major parties, as usual, are those who try to reconcile different concerns in the Norwegian political debate, balance and create wide-ranging reconciliations, have lost their heads and abdicated in that role in the Stortinget. They do not now appear as builders of knowledge-based settlements, but have chosen to become a support group for some particular interests in this debate, and it is particularly sad because one knew it. As Norway's probably leading wolf researcher, Petter Wabakken, said in an interview at Torp recently: It was quite obvious that the Stortinget made a decision that it was difficult to put into life. It's a pity for politics, but it's a particular shame for the management of the predatory wildlife population, for responsible and good nature management needs it to be the opposite of populism and the opposite of throwing around. A need longevity and long settlement. Instead of having, over the years, a situation where all the parties on the Storting were behind it, where we built up the conflicts, we now have a very contentious debate and a boom in free flow in different directions. That's the main challenge here. We now need to rebuild confidence and the community to build two-part objectives and conflict prevention instead of the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e779	It has been very interesting to follow the debate. Now I see there's still a note here, where it says as point 1 that the majority in Norway wants wolf – I can imagine who has forgotten it again. [[Laughter]] I'd like to confirm it – and that's how it's going to be the bulk of the population as well. In the public debate, some people seem to think that the bulk of the population who were behind the wolf settlement last year is against wolves. No, that's what they're not -- they're for a sustainable wolf population. They therefore agree with the majority of the population and with the majority in Hedmark. But that doesn't mean you shouldn't have a government. What the discussion is about now is: How should this file be managed once the file target has been reached? Since I had the pleasure of joining in and negotiating the first predatory game deal, when, as Minister of Agriculture – I was inspired by previous speeches, which have a history – it was the beginning of building up sustainable populations of predatory game. Conflictful, but necessary – just as the previous speaker said. But then I disagree with the previous speeches, which say last year's robberies deal was populist of the two big parties. No, it was responsible, and that's what we said. What we said then, was that now we've let people, not least the grazing industry, take the strain that we want to have wild game in Norway, then we get yes... – the jam, I guess – stand by saying that when we reach the stock target, we also have to manage the stock that we do with other stocks. [[muttering in the hall]] What is at issue now is not whether we should have predatory game or not – we should – but whether the government respects the Storting decision. That's what this is about. As can be seen from the proposal today: there are many paragraphs in the Nature Diversity Act, that's § 18b, that's § 18c – that's how Jusprofessor Eivind Smith has said two very interesting things. One is that there is a great deal of room for discretion in the Natural Diversity Act. The second is that the Law Department is not a judicial body, it is only courts that can judge the understanding of the laws adopted by a magnificence in Norway. Nor do I think it is unreasonable that the Storting has a view of what they mean by the laws that Stortinget adopts. Jan Fridthjof Bernt has also commented on the lack of information for Stortinget, on which the representative Storberget was involved. I want to mention Section 1 of the Natural Diversity Act, which I was involved in the creation of. At the time, I was a fisheries minister and concerned that we should perceive nature as a living part of society, of which man is a participant and not an outside observer. That is why I am very pleased that it is stated in Section 1 of the Nature Diversity Act: ‘The purpose of the law is to preserve the nature of its biological, landscape and geological diversity and ecological processes through sustainable use and protection, including providing the basis for human activities, culture, health and well-being, now and in the future, also as a basis for Sami culture.’ I believe that the Stortinge's decision last summer met that purpose very well. The question we are now facing is: Can the Storting set effective stock targets, which both ensure that a stock is not eradicated and also ensure that we manage it and harvest it when the stock target is reached? I think that's important to be credible. I understand that many now feel disappointed – when those who live in the areas have almost borne the consequences of stock building – that they cannot trust us in what we said related to when the stock target is reached. To the demonstrations outside here earlier and not least yesterday, with thousands of participants: they didn't say they wouldn't have wolves, even if the representative Hansson said so. No, it was a demonstration with thousands of people in front of the Storting, who had one claim, that the decision of the Storting should be followed up. It's historic – and it's historic that we have a government council that almost declares distrust of the Storting. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e799	Anyway, speaking time is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e806	It is to be admitted that this is an almost unreal situation, that my own Council of State is far more concerned with combating the settlement of the Great Britain in the wolf matter than with realising it. This applies not only to stock targets, but all the Storting requested from genetics to the risk of imports of middlings. For Storting's settlement was not easy. There was nine-time work – many hearings and recordings, and not least compromises. The size did his job, the trenches became a little less deep. The most adaptive and breeding potential of the large predatory game we have is to be managed. Parts of Norway were not to become reserves, where the quality of life and nutritional basis of humans are being displaced for the benefit of wolves. But how long was Adam in Paradise? No longer than until the last day of the meeting before Christmas! Then there was a decision that no one imagined: the council reversed all the withdrawals. Reserveed, explosive growth, the nearby wolf that takes over human habitat, was again bloody serious. After this dramatic decision comes out a lot. The Ministry amended the Roofvilts Ordinance 14 days after the wolf settlement of the Stortingen, making it difficult to comply with the Stortingen Decision. The department could not reveal itself. The Council of State received a note on 8 November stating that there was a legal problem. The council later said that Stortinget was made aware of this in the Storing Message. But what does a Council of State do when he sees that such conclusions are contrary to the decision and decision of the Storting? Well, the Council of State did not come to the Storting to solve the problem, but sent a very narrow one, not wide one, but sneered a case investigation to the Law Department and asked for a legal check – not by the entire law of nature diversity, but by a narrow extract of it. Before the weekend they tried again. Once again, a case investigation that ignores knowledge from NIBIO, the Ministry of Agriculture, Evenstad and common sense was to be sent to the Law Department. The question arises very quickly: Is this a department with an agenda that the Council of State has not revealed? I don't understand that the law department can use this. It's a game that also the Great Mountain was in, about lost credibility, that creates enormous distance and distrust of administration and authorities. This isn't funny. Trust in case investigation and legal work is gone. Humans' quality of life and nutritional basis must be ahead of wolves. We live in the same country. Parts of the country shall not be reserved. The settlement of the aggregate shall be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e821	Robbery policy has been dealt with several times in Stortinget, and today’s management takes place after the leaders in the predatory game likes of 2004 and 2011 and Stortinget’s treatment of Storingsmelda Ulf in Norwegian nature in the spring of 2016. We know that there have been strong contradictions and great debate over the time when it applies to wolf management, which should lead to a necessary preliminary work being done before the end of the stock. The wolf population was reported to be above the Storting population target in June 2011 and therefore, for the first time, the predatory game denominators opened in 2016 for the licensing of up to 32 wolves in four wolfevir in Hedmark. Three of these giants are inside the wolf's son. As usual, these decisions were appealed to the Ministry of Climate and Environment. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has supported complaints and concluded that the potential for damage is not sufficiently likely, despite the Stortinge’s decision on stock targets, which – and I stress – have an assessment of the potential for damage when the population is larger than the target population that was seen. During the discussion of wolf management cases in the Energy and Environment Committee, the following were clarified: «The stock management requirement also applies within sona and irrespective of the existence of harmful potential on domestic animals and domestic animals. The majority of the Committee would stress that the stock targets set by the Storting are the clear overall decision.’;» I just got a message that a dog is attacked on a garden in the Aurskog and is injured. This means that the wolf is getting so close that the damage potential must be clearly reviewed. The clarifications made by the Committee should lead the Ministry and the Council of State to amend, if necessary, the regulation on the management of wild game, in order to ensure that a respected decision on the Trusteeship Decision was taken. 330 S and harmonised natural disasters. If the two-part administration is to have legitimacy – and what I am concerned about is the legitimacy of the unity that was at the time when it was discussed – the decision of the Storting must be respected, and it must be done quickly. During the vote today, the Progress Party will vote in favour of the joint motion by the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party, as mentioned earlier, so that there is no doubt about it. But once again, I would like to stress that the legitimacy built up by the plural decision that was taken last must be respected, and we must put in place an administration that is respected even in the wolf sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e841	We who sit here are elected. We are legislators, and we have a mandate through elections. I hope the Council of State will take note of the contribution of one of those who have been given a mandate through elections, which means that Helgesen is the Council of State – Gunnar Gundersen from the Right. Had it not been for those like Gunnar Gundersen who had led the election campaign they did, the Helgesen government council had never been the Helgesen state council. More clearly, it cannot be said that the government with Erna Solberg and Vidar Helgesen is entirely on a collision course with those who have also given them the mandate. We in the Central Party have never given a mandate to Vidar Helgesen or Erna Solberg, while Gunnar Gundersen and others here in the Chamber have given a mandate to Erna Solberg and Vidar Helgesen. Then it's time to listen to the elected people, to the legislative assembly, to those who have met people, stood in the debate and made difficult settlements. One of the things that has been despairing during this round is that I have personally tried to get Vidar Helgesen to Hedmark several times, sent a letter from Stortinget and challenged Helgesen to meet people who are affected by the policy. I've done it with Trysil Right, along with Trysil Municipality, so that this should be a neutral and good frame. But there hasn't been a Helgesen time to show up. He has had time to travel to Davos. There he's had time to go. But to meet people in Trysil who are affected by politics, Helgesen has not. One of the most unwise things a state council can do is not meet those who are actually affected by the decisions we make, because in Norway we have a government of people, not an elite government. Then we shall not fear the people, we shall respect the people, and that will dampen the level of conflict. One of the challenges of today's wolf debate is that we in the Storting went into and overruled the government in ours, because the government wanted more wolf. So it's like many of us elected people meet every day, and we saw that the government put up with that policy had too much pressure, too much potential for conflict. That's why we subdued the number of wolves here in Stortinget. State Council Helgesen has used every opportunity afterwards to undermine the will of the Storting, and then we have had a historically high level of conflict in the wolf debate. No one had thought that there would be 5,000 to 10,000, as the police said, in front of the Storting yesterday and demand that the Storting's decision be implemented. It is entirely new in our political history that 5,000 to 10,000 people travel from all over the country to stand in front of the Storting and have one appeal: Implement the will of the Storting. It is quite new that the Storting is starting to decide that a Council of State and a Prime Minister should start to read different legal paragraphs and come back with given deadlines. Dear co-representatives! Dear Councillor! It's time to turn around. It's time to listen. It's time to respect the people. It's time to respect the elected representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e852	This is really a bit of a debate! State Council Helgesen says he understands the Storting. That was really liberal of a government council. I am more concerned that the members of the government show that they understand the Storting, not least what we adopt here, and follow up. I repeat: follow up. All the criticisms that have been made today are – in my opinion – very serious. It is seaborne and at its most deserved. The government is silent and the wolf population is increasing out of control. The working party was concerned that the wolf settlement should strengthen local authority and create less conflict, but the government does not follow up. I understand that the reactions are strong and massive, especially in those who have wolves and other predators close to themselves and feel insecure, perhaps every day. We also react strongly, we in the country's highest body, the Stortinget, when our decisions are set aside by a government that does not agree with the sea, where the magnificence representatives and state councils from the same party rush in the twins. It is not just the big demonstrations outside of Stortingen, as several have mentioned, that are becoming special in this case. With regard to what Gunnar Gundersen said here today, I do not remember hearing as much criticism of his own government council as he did. It underlines the seriousness of the matter. Effective follow-up to the wolf settlement means that the decision of the predators to hunt 47 wolves is not slaughtered by the State Council and that the source of the wolf in South Scandinavia is documented. The latter determines the obligations of the Berne Convention for Norway. State Council Helgesen's job so far in documenting the damage potential is poor. Impacts on housing and industrial activities in districts have not been assessed. Why else are we going to make it so much more complicated than they do in Sweden? It is not difficult to understand that politicians with great insight put their powers into the predatory wildlife subjects. The whole robberies of Hedmark, which Helgesen makes a wolf reserve, put down their wards first, and the red-green members of the named Oppland made common cause when the Right refused to turn the council. Upland does not have a wolf zone, but is plagued by stripe wolves from the east. The wolf policy of the government therefore poses a far greater threat to the outreach industry in Uppland. Now the agreement on the wolf settlement is again confirmed by the two proposals presented here today. This time there is definitely no way out of the council of Helgesen and the government. The wolf settlement shall be effectively followed up. It will last now, said Knut Storberget, now it has to be delivered. I want to stress like several others here: and it's urgent – very urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e865	In June last year we succeeded in getting a balanced and broad settlement here in the Stortinget on the wolf. The decision taken on 20 December not to impose the licensing of wolves in a situation far beyond the stock target set by the Stortinget has produced strong reactions, both politically and among people, because the collapse settlement and the stock target decision were set aside by a narrow delimitation of the concept of ‘damage potential’ to damage only to grazing animals. The wolf settlement is an expression of the opinion of the Stortinget as the tolerance limit in the wolf zone, and an expression of the Stortinget’s view of the extent of Norway’s commitments under the Berne Convention. The stock target and stock management also take into account the risk of the stripping of wolves into neighbouring areas and increased pressure on neighbouring regions. It's also a very important consideration for counties like Tree Layer, where predatory pressure is already demanding enough. However, this case is not just about wolves. It is about the fundamental values on which we build society: respect for individuals, for the quality of life and the need for security; respect for property rights, the ability to nourish, feed on their own property in District Norway; respect for minority rights, the fact that those affected are to be taken into account by the big community, not be overrun by the majority. Heathmarks have agreed to give room to the wolf under certain conditions, namely that the stock should be regulated. So we need to understand the feelings and take the reactions of the people who live and have their origins in areas where the big community has instructed them to bear the burden of national politics. To allow the wolf to multiply freely as soon as it is empty for sheep is contrary to the general sense of justice where I come from. A broad majority of the Stortinget has therefore clarified that the stock target is not indicative. It is applicable and shall be followed up. Therefore, the assessment of tax potential must also cover not only grazing animals but a broader consideration of public interests of significant importance in line with the guidance of the Nature Diversity Act § 18 etc. It is good to extend the hunting season to March. At the same time, there is a expectation that there will be licensing in the wolf zone in winter, so that the will of the Storting can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e876	In its time when this communication was to be discussed, it was an incredibly important matter for the Business Committee as well. When we examined it in the committee at the time of the nomination, the majority of the Committee's comments on the follow-up to the stock target were very clear on how it should be managed when it was reached. I also expressed this in the debate at the time, and the Committee said that the stock target should be perceived as a minimum and a maximum target, and that this has been achieved when four have been passed, and should not exceed six. Measures shall then be taken, primarily through the licence hunt. That was the clear decision of the Business Committee. I would also like to stress that I have a great deal of understanding of the frustration that is now felt by all those who are heavily burdened by the government not implementing the Stortinge's clear decision. And like others, I think the Stortinge has never experienced two major demonstrations with several thousand people, the only requirement being that the Stortinge must follow up its own decision. It must be historic. But even though what lies in the wolf zone has the greatest strain, it also has consequences beyond this zone. We saw that yesterday, where it was seen from Agder to Trundellag. If we don't get to that withdrawal this year, maybe we'll get fifty extra puppies, and they'll of course pull out to other areas. Vest-Agder, where I come from, belongs to the wolf-free zone, but nevertheless, every year there have been roaming animals, which have done very much damage at regular intervals. I now expect that, through the clarification of the Storting today, the government takes the Stortinget seriously and implements the Stortinget's clear decision, and does not interpret the law as sloppy as the government has now done. There is clearly a room for action, as Knut Storberget's representative said very clearly. Among other things, the government can make changes through regulation, as the Stortinget has expressed, and I understood that the Council of State also agreed, in connection with the replacement of lines with Terje Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e885	It's a fact that there's no genetic, unique southern Scandinavian wolf tribe – precisely because we didn't have wolf for a long time. The wolf we have is most likely a Finnish-Russian wolf, and it is not extermination threat. There is no requirement in the Berne Convention to reintroduce wolves in Norwegian nature. This, on the other hand, is a major national political space, along with what Professor Eivind Smith has said. The question of whether we are going to have wolves, and how many wolves, in Norway, are therefore some of the majority of the population decide on a national basis. It respects the Center Party. Our overall perspective in the wolf debate is to prioritize quality of life and security for people; it is not to prioritize interpretation of the law that puts wolves in front of people. People have to be put first. The issue today, however, is whether the government has followed the will of the Storting. When we go to the sources, Innst. 330 S from June 2016, a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party and Christian People's Party decided that one should have a stockpiling target of four to six young people per year. And it was in a majority comment: «The stock management requirement also applies within sona and irrespective of the existence of harmful potential on domestic animals and domestic animals. The majority of the Committee would stress that the stock targets set by the Storting are the clear overall decision.’;» Is it going to be more accurate? So can people trust the government's follow-up? Both the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act allow for a different interpretation of the quality of life and the security of people affected by wolves than the Helgesen State Council suggests. I therefore believe that the Council of State has misinformed the Stortinget. The demonstration outside Stortinget with several thousand had one parole: follow up the decision of the magnification. Nevertheless, we have a debate in this room where many talk away from what was the decision to grow up, and what people have expected would happen. And then there's a proposal, which I'm going to get closer to, which probably makes the situation just keep going, and it creates distrust.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e898	Several representatives have called for a wolf policy that gives legitimacy and credibility and reduces conflict. There is an announcement that I can agree to all the time. But what is the status of the wolf policy we are now discussing again? It's that once again we get an eye-catching political circus around the management of a handful or two of mammals that live east of Norway. The situation is that there is exactly as high temperature in the conflict and in the debate now as it was five years ago and ten years ago. And the situation is that we still have a wolf population that the government's own professional body, the Art Database, characterizes as critically threatened in Norway because the population is so small. Even now, the wolf population is biologically small, and no predictions about sustainability and collapse can change the biological fact that some tens of animals in an animal population in Norway are very small. We have a situation where a massive opinion in Norway will have wolf in something that they perceive as a reasonable stock. This is even the case in Hedmark. We also have a situation where the other three major predatory species in Norway are allowed to be found in much larger populations. They do much more damage, but there is almost no conflict around them at all – because one has come out of a situation where keeping the conflict is a political gain. In this situation, the majority of the population themselves have to take responsibility for the consequences of a decision that means further reducing an already critically threatened predatory population in Norway and doing so in a way that the majority of population should understand very well that it is difficult to implement in accordance with the Law on Natural Diversity. Yeah, we're gonna shoot the wolf. Yes – we will take out animals that threaten or do harm. Yes – we are going to go too far, comprehensive and good support for those affected by wolf injuries. It has promoted a number of measures by the Green Party to help – several of them are otherwise downrooted in the Storting – and we must respect people who are afraid of wolves. But we also need to respect the foundations of Norwegian environmental policy and the vast majority of those who want a more wolf- and nature-friendly policy than is currently being discussed in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e907	The Marsjordren was given further to the government today: back. Several wolves shall be gunned, the hunting time extended until 31 March, and to look at the action space to implement what is a solid settlement in the Stortinget, the government shall return to 10 March at the latest. Done before! I have heard that the Center Party mentions that someone has problems with the relationship with himself. I have to remind you that the Center Party should look at the relationship with itself, and that the problems are also there. To listen to Battle Violence Vedum talking about Robbery management is perceived as alarming. He and the rest of the Center Party sat in the red-green government that for eight years built up the distrust between authorities and residents in the field of wild game and wild game-laden areas. Remembering is a cheating companion. In 2009, the level of conflict was high in all parts of the country that had challenges with predatory game in grazing areas. It was about conflicts with all the predatory game species, and the most serious were in the areas where we had wolves, especially in the predatory game zones. We had an administration without trust, and people experienced an arrogance from the administration that had no boundaries. The Socialist Left Party ruled most of the area. The Labour Party and the Center Party put the paralysis of action and took it and considered it. Drag help to improve the situation you could look far behind that edge. Some of us also remember well the negotiated robber agreement that lasted from 2009 to 2013. There were great expectations that the settlement would bring peace and greater confidence between residents of predatory wildlife-laden areas and authorities. It wasn't like that. The wolf file has session. Some of the appeals against the predatory game policy that has led to today's government, and among other things. is the basis for some of the mistrust that lies between the administration, us politicians and people living in the predatory areas, are at the root of this. Many people experience that predatory wildlife management is made up of people and representatives who set their own goals and values in terms of nature protection going ahead and going ahead of most other things. For people living in the districts, I am one of them myself, it is felt that you have no respect for property rights, for landowners and for people who experience good quality of life – or should have it – in the areas where we have predators. Today, this is very confused.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e916	I want to follow up on the previous speaker a little bit, because that's exactly what it's about. In the change of lines, Elvestuen insisted that the agreement be abandoned. No, as I've said, I'm fighting for Storting's settlement to be implemented. It's very special, as many have said, that 5,000 to 10,000 people meet and demonstrate for the decision of the Storting. It's almost never happened, it's largely against the decision it's demonstrated. But what you're asking for is understanding and respect, not being mocked and bored. I want the Stortinget to understand that. The argument that the policy is successful, which Bård Vegar Solhjell had in mind – what does that mean? Well, that means you're saying that we've succeeded in alienating you from your nutritional basis, we're affecting your life base so much that you're afraid of your children. And then the policy is successful! You can't use that word to those who actually bear the burden, and you have to understand that. Compensations in Norway today provide compensation for annual losses. But that day your whole life base is gone, you get nothing. You might get some conversion measures, so that the debt situation doesn't go all the way up to your ears, but a lot of people have also experienced it when you get some conversion-related funds. But, as I said, replacements cannot possibly cover quality of life – in any case. For nutritional purposes, the annual loss is covered, but not when the rights themselves are lost. When Stortinget says that a successful policy has been implemented, it means that it is said that you have succeeded in overstepping your rights, so that loss statistics do not show any loss. Then we are successful! I think everyone understands that is not a sustainable national policy. So a little bit to the explanation of vote: Morten Ørsal Johansen made the suggestions that were there. I agree that the deadline is too long. But I accept that it is negotiation and compromise. I think the debate has been very good. It's been very clear. The acknowledgment that we also do not like in proposal No. 6, I'm assuming I'm not being used to stall any more. Then I expect you to follow the post of the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, and actually read the purpose section of the Nature Diversity Act: it is not difficult to define people into this. With that, I'm going to vote for that proposal, and I hope we're on the right track again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e929	That's the number of population that determines. It is the bulk of the population that determines whether those carrying the loads are to be ‘scorned and trampled on’, as the representative Gundersen said. It's the bulk of the population that decides whether the arrogance that has been in the past, as Mr. Injerd Schou said, should continue. That's the choice of the bulk of the population. What we're going to end with now is to clarify: how does the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party understand its previous decision. How is that supposed to be understood? Two proposals have been submitted by the four parties, including: proposal No 7, ‘to amend the Code on the management of wild game’. It is a proposal that the debate has made it clear that it can be implemented – not quickly, the Council of State, but it can be implemented immediately. It can be implemented immediately, as the Council of State has done in the past, so it is a proposal for which the Central Party will vote. And then it's proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party, the Right Party, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. What's important is the last sentence. It says: ‘It is assumed that if new information on the potential for damage or other material information makes it possible in the framework of the legislation in force, there will be a fall in the licence of the wolf in excess of the number already determined for the current year’. So it's a proposal that comes now, after the same parties wrote in a majority comment, as I said, on page 17: «The stock management requirement also applies within sona and irrespective of the existence of harmful potential on domestic animals and domestic animals. The majority of the Committee would stress that the stock targets set by the Storting are the clear overall decision.’;» It was on page 17 of the section – June 2016. Proposal No. 6 is completely unnecessary if one stands on what one has previously adopted. I'm afraid there's another postponement, there's probably an opportunity to bypass their own decisions. That's what challenges people most so strongly, that repeatedly there are still new formulations to bypass their own decisions, and it helps to weaken confidence in what is happening here on the part of the majority of the Storting. It's sad. The centre party will vote against proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e956	It has evolved into a rather special debate, and then maybe one comes out of focus, like the representative Schou, when she had to use her three minutes of speaking time to make an attack on the Center Party. I understand in myself the Right Need to balance the debate a little later, but I want to remind the Right Party and the Advance Party that during this period, the Center Party has invited the Right Party and the Advance Party to cooperate on the Robbery Policy a lot of times, repeatedly, because we thought that a minority government might need a majority of the Biggest in these matters. But every time we've been met with a cold shoulder from the Right and the Advance Party, sail if it could contribute to a different kind of course in the predatory game policy than we've seen. In the case of wolves, the issue was never dealt with in the robberies agreement in 2011. We were to have a common Swedish-Norwegian administration, and it never happened because the Swedes withdrew. That's why it wasn't until June last year that we were able to reach a broad majority. What we are discussing today is simply how the government should follow up on the broad majority. Because that's a fact that we've always looked at stock targets as the leader of our predatory policy. When one is far beyond the stock target, one must also be able to regulate the stock. I must also say that when stock targets are no longer to be used, but the damage potential is so strong, it seems provocative to many. I understand that. It is provocative for people locally to hear that their forced choices to stop grazing precisely because of the wolf's next round are being made an argument for not regulating the wolf population. Because that is exactly what happens when the damage potential is put ahead of stock targets as a condition. But, as I said, today we are discussing how the government is going to follow up on the broad agreement that was adopted last June. I think that today's debate has clearly shown what the broad majority of people want from the government in the future. I have noticed that representatives from the Left and the Greens have said that we must respect the fact that people are afraid of wolves. It's kind of a bit depressing about saying it that way. I also noticed that the representative Elvesuen said that we need to give people more knowledge about wolves. I think that those who live and live near areas where you have wolves have a lot of knowledge, both about the adverse effects it produces, and also about the uncertainty it gives. I don't think that's knowledge they're missing. I don't think most of them are against wolf as such, but they're in favour of a regulation of the stock, and they got hope when a settlement was adopted last year that would actually contribute to a sensible stock management. And they were disappointed when the government didn't follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e967	This case is about the security of people and their ability to live a normal life without fear. But the cause is also about food production. The Industry Committee deals with a business notification. There we talk about increasing food production in Norway and increasing the use of grazing resources. We then rely on predatory policies to be followed up, so that the goal can be achieved. This matter is very much about the government's respect, or lack of respect, for the decision in the Storting. One has experienced that the state council and the government have our movers in the jessen. I am particularly critical of the way in which an obliging information obligation towards Stortinget is fulfilled, because in the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee, such as the Right, the Progress Party, the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party are behind it: «The stock management requirement also applies within sona and irrespective of the existence of harmful potential on domestic animals and domestic animals. The majority of the Committee would stress that the stock targets set by the Storting are the clear overall decision.’;» When this is happening and the council sees this and doesn't come to the Stortinget and tell them that this isn't going to work, I think it's critical. I also want to associate a comment with the article in Ingrd Schou. Obviously, we're in a situation where there hasn't been any more wolves in Norway in our lifetime. Then it becomes too thin, after almost four years of government, to owe everything to the previous government. This case is now under way, and we are now going to take decisions that will apply in the future. What hangs a little bit after the debate is that I'm not overconfident that the Council of State and the government actually wants to implement the policy that the Stortinget has adopted. I wish the Council of State could use the speech time to overinterpret the Storting that it is what you intend to do, and that we will not experience new curvatures to avoid this. If we are to have confidence in the decision taken by the Stortinget, the licensing agreement must take place this winter, and that is in line with what the Stortinget has said. To next year, the problem, conflicts and resistance are significantly greater than the current situation, and it is therefore important that one act quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e985	It's quite shocking that the Central Party thinks that they should come to a minority relief when you couldn't get through your own policy when you put in a majority government. I think that with this agreement that was adopted in 2016, and which is being reinforced with further marshalling grounds for the government now, the Senter party is still outside. They were outside then, they were outside in the previous government for eight years when it was about to have their hand on the steering wheel in this area, although they were present, and they are outside the conciliation now and seem that it is unpleasant when we remember the time that was. But people living in the districts, people who feel that both management and, in part, politicians are also standing outside a settlement to find a solution, and who do not feel that you have respect for the fact that you actually live in the districts, have a nourishment and income associated with being landowners, or are out and enjoying the outdoors – we do not get their trust. Politics and our solutions must be close to people, they must be where people are. We're going to have wolf, but it's going to be taxed, and now there's so many of it that it actually has to be shot. There's got to be more shooting. And when people experience that we lack acceptance and understanding of the situation that you actually experience, and that we do not have solutions that are offered, that means a loss of trust. We have to secure it and recover it. I come from a state – and I have been sitting for several years in the wild – where I meet this everyday life often, and I meet people who experience a deterioration in their lives in the districts, for which they basically have great love. The 2016 wolf settlement is not indicative. That's true. The understanding is that this is the case, it's a decision we've made. The size is the legislative assembly, and then there is a need to understand what the legislation was supposed to contain, or to change the law. If that's what's going on, this is the place. Juss and lawyers are helpers, and the kiss is only an instrument. It is we, as parliamentarians, who have decided, and must decide, and the government must take action. I'm going to give the government credit that it's so far easier to take out pests, and that gradually there's also become a better trust between people and authorities. But when you stop having sheep or other animals on pasture, it's not the ones you can count on. Then it's the foundation away. These loss rates go down in many areas, but it's also because people have been pressured to stop what was their basis of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e996	When I listen to the debate, I think it's amazing that many people use so harsh words against a government council that just follows the law, and that follows up what's the decision of the Stortinge. We will, after all, be governed by law, both by the law of nature diversity and by following up on the Berne Convention, and we will get this together against what is last year's wolf report. What I am pleased about when I hear the debate is that all parties – at least so far – are behind the law on natural diversity and that there are no changes to the law itself. It gives room, and because we have a higher population, it allows you to have a faster extraction of more animals than you've done in the past. We have to remind more of that 20 pst. within the licensing system – 20 pst., far above what are the Swedish breeding permits, which are based on a much larger population and have a completely different starting point and reality than what we have in Norway. So it's not as simple as just looking at the verdict of the Supreme Court in Sweden and transferring it to Norway. It is also necessary to transfer the whole picture with a higher base and a higher stock base. So to some of the suggestions: in the case of § 18(b) and (c), they are directed towards individuals and individuals who have unusual and threatening behaviour. They can also be taken out today. The left believes that this is well taken care of within the law that we have, and that even if you look at it again, we find it difficult to see that it should provide some basis for expansion beyond what are individual individuals, in addition to what we have today. When it comes to getting back the regulation on the management of wild game, I feel that the Council of State says that this change was just to adapt to the decision of last year. He does not see that there should be any major changes you can achieve by going back on it. I think we should take on board that the policy has been successful. It's less loss. There are also more animals, and then we have to have a slightly different administration to deal with it. There must be quick outings where there is a basis, and then we have to look at where you can have economic benefits for municipalities. There must be good damages for the few damage that are, and preventive measures – they work, they also show this case – and conversion schemes where they exist. Then I must say that we must take seriously the concern... [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1009	There's no time for speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1014	It is amazing to hear the representative Ola Elvestuen from the Left saying that the policy has been successful. It's very easy when you represent Oslo constituency. Engerdal Left does not believe that the policy has been successful, for they have closed down, last week, because of the arrogance they have experienced that the Left National has shown to those who live with the problems on the body. And it is quite important that the Left, who has said that they come from a popular tradition, has become the main defenders of the officials and forgotten that it is the elected will that has been stopped here. For that is what Vidar Helgesen and Erna Solberg have done, they have stopped what has been the elected mandate. The fact that the Left has become the greatest defender to stop the elected will is amazing. That the Right, like the old official party, does, is not quite so wonderful, but it is amazing that the government does not listen when the whole of its parliamentary basis is against it. The Chief Speaker of the Right in the Energy and Environment Committee did not take the Right in Defense in his row round and could not guarantee that it will be hunted. The Chief Spokesman of the Right in the Business Committee, who is the other committee dealing with the report of robbers, gave a framework criticism of Erna Solberg and the government's handling of this matter. When I challenged the Chief Energy Spokesman of the Advance Party, the answer was: The government has not done the job. The main spokesman for the industry of the Progress Party, which is the other committee that has examined the communication, said that he could not support the publishing house – ramsalt criticism. So all the responsible parliamentarians, the elected representatives of the people, those who have a popular mandate also for the government, have come up with criticism, and no one from the government has stood up and defended Vidar Helgesen and Erna Solberg in this debate. Then, dear state councillor, it's time to turn around, to listen, to understand that we have a popular system in Norway, and that it's the best. What is so sad is that those who have been affected by the policy experience that the level of conflict is increasing every day, rather than taking their challenges seriously. For there are many who have got their lives turned up-down because of the decisions being made in this room. And then the government has to take it seriously. Listen to the people, listen to the elected ones, and make sure that the level of conflict drops. Start hunting now!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1023	I'll try a little summary of the debate. I think the debate has been unusually clear. There can't be one person who's been in this room, who can't be in any doubt about what the majority of the population actually means by the June decision last year and by the two proposals that have been put forward today. There can be no doubt about what you mean. The two proposals promoted by the majority, the proposals No. 6 and 7 is a very clear work order for the government – a very clear work order for the government – which can in no way be misunderstood. If there's a word or two now one should be in doubt about, the time to ask questions is actually now. But there's a clear message about what's lying there. It is also a very clear expectation now, in the light of the word change and the line change earlier today, that the change in the regulation on the management of predatory game takes place immediately or immediately – so quickly it is practicable to implement it. I'm very pleased with that. It is essential that we follow up the 2016 agreement. We then argued very clearly that in Norway there should be a stock management based on a stock target set at four to six young people per year, three of whom should be whole Norwegian. The interpretation of this cannot be discussed. It's clearly fixed. So this with damage potential, and other conditions that interfere with the stock target that Stortinget has set, is kind of misleading the debate. The size has said very clearly that we should have stock regulation based on a stock target, and there are four to six young people who are the target. In conclusion, we have to get back into a situation where trust in management can be trusted that one can manage to mitigate the level of conflict with regard to predatory game policy, so that we can base a long-term policy on what I think most people in this room want: a two-fold objective that we on the one hand should be able to have predatory game and people and on the other side society and grazing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1035	I will also briefly explain why I am voting in favour of the proposals to which the Workers' Party is advocating – to a large extent with the same reasons as the Gunnar Gundersen representative, but I believe that, overall, we should have gone further. I just want to express it. I had the same point of view when we dealt with the wolf settlement. I thought we should have tightened something more – there were too many. But that only shows what we need when people give up and try: if we are to have confidence in the decisions that we make, we must assume that they are implemented. That's what's servile in this case. It is no wonder that trust is lacking in this matter when one sees that decisions are taken in the country's main body which then until those degrees are not followed up. It was the representative of Elvesuen who said that those who were injured were met with such fantastic replacement arrangements. Then I just have to be allowed to say that we have recently had a case in Sølendalen Havnelag, which is a complaint case – the state council has got the questions – where the same happens: People invest time, resources and money to prevent damage, and then you experience a process and difficult bends to have to round to get at all a fraction of the expenses you have had. I understand that people are losing confidence. It's hard to go up the Rendalen and explain this. There's little money for this hall and big money in Rendalen. So we're going to be a little bit observant that if we're going to be able to maintain confidence that we're going to be able to take on vital roles together, we're going to have to change course. I think it has also been a good debate, but I have to ask: where has the implementation of this policy been in the debate? I registered that the council spent a few minutes of its measured speaking time originally, and then we haven't heard anything. It could have been interesting, when you've had such striking counter-representations from a majority on the Storting to the process and to the content, and from your own party traps, at least to hear some thoughts about what comes out of the debate. And such silence makes me even more concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1044	The representative Rasmus Hansson has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1049	It wasn't big, but the representative of Aasland is right that there's no doubt about what the majority thinks about the size of the wolf population. But there is great doubt as to what the majority believes about how the government should comply with Norwegian law in the implementation of such decisions as the Stortinget has now taken. What we are really discussing in Stortinget now is whether Norway should have a tiny small wolf population or a tiny, please, small wolf population. That's what the populace doesn't understand. When the Storting somehow raises the wolf population to a somewhat biologically decent level, we're going to experience the same thing that we've experienced with regard to bears, gloat and yerv – the conflict is going to flatten out, we're going to be able to harvest normally of the stock, and we're going to be able to look forward in Norwegian natural management with some wonder about the kind of debate we have about the wolf right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1056	The representative Marit Arnstad has also had the word twice before and thus gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1061	I also want to say a few words at the end of the debate. Unlike the representative Rasmus Hansson, I would say no, this is not about what new type of wolf policy you can have. This is not about having a wolf or not. This is about the fact that, by a broad majority, the Storting has adopted a stock target, adopted a decision, and the question is how to follow up that decision. There has been a serious debate. It is rare that I have seen that the government parties have not been willing to defend their government council, in the way they have done today. What becomes the important question in the future is: Will the decision of the Grand Duchy be implemented? Can one trust that when the Stortinge makes a decision, it will be implemented as the Stortinge wishes? The next few weeks will probably show the seriousness of that question, and I think it is safe to say that after this debate the expectations are great, but the confidence is gradually sluggish.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1072	I was challenged to make an assessment of the debate. I would like to stress that in the post I made, it was such that I had got the debate so far, and the messages are very clear – the messages after my post and in the reply box have not been less clear. The government's starting point is that we should implement Stortingen's decision on the treatment of the wolf report. We need to have a government to get as close to the stock target as possible, while respecting the decision-making decisions on governance within the legal framework – within the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention. The decisions taken today by the Stortinget are to be followed up. They also refer to finding solutions based on both the wolf settlement and existing legislation and international conventions. I announced in my statement that we are working on it and will come back to Stortingen with a case about it. We will come back with the matter Stortinget asks today, within the time limits set by Stortinget. Let there be no doubt that I am very aware and have got very well with me what has been the message in the hall and in the debate today, and what lies of expectations in the decisions that are being taken today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1081	I'm not going to be too long, but I have to make some comments to Rasmus Hansson, who is talking about that there is a "handful" animal and a wolf that's an extermination trip, and that we're walking around fear of a "handful" animal. In isolation one might put it this way, but I would remind the representative that in Western Europe there are about 12,000 wolves, and in Russia there are about 12,000 wolves. 70,000 wolves, once again the origin of the tribe that we have today, which we call the Finnish-Russian. As the wolf as such is not a endangered stock. It's been a good debate. I believe that what the Stortinget adopted in June 2016 is crystal clear and needs to be implemented. The same is true of today's proposals. Then I have a advice to the Council of State: Norway has had parliamentaryism since 1884. It's the Stortinget that's the nation's national assembly, it's the Stortinget that's the country's lawmaker. The impatience of the Storting is being used up, and the confidence of regional predators must be built up as quickly as possible, so that we can have an efficiency in managing wolves in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1090	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1095	I'll be brief. As a legislative assembly, the decision cannot require a government council to break the law! Of course, a government council has to follow the law, and then we have to look at what we have from it. I can guarantee the representative of the Battle Force Vedum that the Left is leading and building its policy in close cooperation with the Hedmark Left, and we are building it on a necessary knowledge to shape the policy based on the situation we are now in. There are four flocks involved, and the situation around them. We're in order for you to be able to get faster than what you've had in the past, and it has to be outside the wolf zone. We're because one has to look at the behavior of animals within the zone. And we are in favour of the policy that has been pursued so far. Then we're also going to work on how to provide good support schemes. And I didn't say it was good compensation arrangements; I said we had to have good compensation arrangements. We must have conversion arrangements, and we must have support in municipalities that today have a wolf population.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1112	I just want to say that we perceive the last post of the Council of State there that there is a strong support for what has been formulated by the majority of the population through proposals No. 6 and 7 submitted for treatment today and followed up in a good and close manner. So we're very satisfied with that. To the representative of Elvesuen, it may be worth recalling that what is at all times the will of the current majority in individual cases should be implemented by a State Council. If not, the Council of State is in a very bad position.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1120	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1136	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines be given with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1149	Norway is a long-distance forested country. About 43 pst. of our country is covered by forest. In today’s attitude, we state that the forest and wood industries have been and are a strategically important industry for Norway that needs to be further developed. We lift the forest as both CO2 friend and nutrient base, and while it is this, it is also home to animals and plants and important to us people for recreation and exercise. This overall approach underpins the Committee's position on the future of forestry in Norway. The forest is an important part of the green shift in which we are. The OECD, with the G7 countries at the head, refers to the bioeconomy as a key element of Europe's future economy. Here, there are enormous opportunities for green value creation, which Norway, with our large bioresources, like the forest, must exploit. The Committee stresses that Norway needs to use the potential space available in the bioeconomy so that we can take a leading role in the bioeconomy. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change believes that increased use of biomass is necessary to replace fossil products and clean energy. The Climate Panel points out that forest planting, sustainable forest management and deforestation are among the most cost-effective climate measures in the forest sector. I did not know until I started working on this message, that Norway is far ahead in terms of seed processing. We have seed plantations that give offspring with about 50 pst. greater volume increase. This results in increased progeny, which is also important from a climate perspective, as it contributes to increasing annual CO2 capture. SKOG22 says that by introducing measures such as planting, fertilisation and plant processing, we can contribute to more raw material availability and increased CO2 capture by 3 million tonnes per year as early as 2050. In this setting, the Committee takes seriously the well-known expression'see forest for more than just trees'. 48 pst. Norwegian red-listed species live in the forest. We also know that it has become significantly more old forest, dead by and several large trees in Norwegian forests. More dead wood has a positive effect on endangered species, and we now see – and I would say fortunately – that the list of endangered species in Norway is getting shorter and shorter. That's good, and this work that's going on needs to be reinforced. We need to continue monitoring biodiversity, and we need to give everyone who needs access to relevant information. To this end, a Joint Committee asks the Government to ensure that relevant public spatial environmental and resource information is made available. The Committee also asks the Government to facilitate the provision of up-to-date information for forestry by the forest portal of NIBIO. Young forest management is also an important tool for producing quality crops and will increase profitability and make forests more robust against climate change. The majority in the Committee therefore consider it important that we increase our efforts in this area. The majority of the Committee also determines the 10 p.m. target for forest protection in spring. Voluntary protection shall be the bottom plank and shall be 10 pst. of all forests. The Committee points out that much of the oldest forest is not economically viable and can therefore be protected on such areas. It also underlines the need to stimulate voluntary protection of smaller areas of high ecological value. Furthermore, the Committee is aware that some forest owners are not subject to tax exemptions for compensation for protection since the proposal has not been given retroactive effect. The Committee is of the opinion that the tax exemption should apply to all, including those who have previously set up voluntary protection areas. The Committee stresses that there has been the intention of the Storting from the start of such claims to be duty-free. We therefore ask the government to come back with a proposal for a solution in the revised national budget for 2017 in this area. I also want to raise the hearing opinion of Women in Forestry, where it appears that in projects related to Norway’s commitment to contribute to reducing deforestation outside Norway, only 0.02 pst. by the women involved. A Joint Committee underlines that women should be more involved in such grassroots work and that Norway should require women to be involved in these projects. I started my post by saying that 43 pst. of our country is covered with forest. Figures from the SSB show that in 2015 there were nearly 128 000 forest properties with at least 25 dekar productive forest land and that the productive forest area of these properties was about 70 million dekar. We have a large overweight of smaller properties, nine out of ten are less than 1,000 dekar, and the average property consists of 550 dekar productive forest. So, as it is today, forestry is most often an additional industry for forest owners. The Government Parties, together with the Left, wish to repeal the Forest Owners Concession Act. In that capacity, the majority of the Committee emphasises the importance of maintaining local ownership of forest resources and will maintain property law and give priority to instruments contributing to it. Forests are important for the climate and play an even more important role in the Norwegian economy. Over the last decades, we have seen that the Norwegian timber industry is shut down, and today we are primarily a three-exporter. Should Norway be a leader within, inter alia: The bioeconomy, we must facilitate industrial development. We know that the timber we export can provide the basis for 4,000 new jobs in this country, and we need to facilitate good framework conditions so that these jobs are triggered. We have to use the whole tree and take advantage of all the parts, as they can create high value creations separately. We need to develop new products and facilitate innovation. In today's Fredrikstad Blade it is reported that Norway's largest wooden building is built on Øra – a warehouse in solid wood of 10,700 m2. Last week a press release was issued that Nordisk Massivtre AS had been established – a new company that aims to become a spearhead to ensure that solid wood becomes a standard in the construction industry. Yes – it happens, and it's going to happen more. An important measure that already exists for forest owners is the Forest Fund scheme. The forest industry is in a special position, as it takes 70–80 years from a three plant to mowing. The Forest Fund scheme ensures capital for long-term investments in the forest. This scheme needs to be continued, underlining today's cancellation. One of the most important areas of forest activity is infrastructure and transport. When we know that transport can stand up to one-third of the total cost of getting raw materials to industrial land, it's important to bet on this. Governments and cooperation parties have done a great deal in this area over the last three years, and this option further strengthens this. Challenges related to the establishment of a satisfactory road network are different in different parts of Norway. In the traditional forest routes, the main challenge is that the existing forest road network does not meet current and future requirements for efficient timber transport. In coastal areas, the main challenge is to establish a forest road network that allows the exploitation of forest resources built up in the last century. In the nomination, the majority of the Committee emphasises the need to make the necessary investments to modernise existing forest roads and to establish a forward-looking forestry road network in coastal regions as quickly as possible. Other important measures to which the majority of the Committee is concerned are a test system with a vehicle with a total mass of up to 74 tonnes, electrification of major sections of the line and the arrival of deep water skis in the Drammen early in the NTP period, together with a bottleneck programme. The Green Competitiveness Expert Committee, which has been set up by the government and which has now issued its report, points out that forest-based nutrient growth must be market-based. In order to achieve this, specific arrangements and economic specific treatment are needed during a transitional period, and this is done most effectively, according to the sample, by stimulating demand for Norwegian forest biomass. The majority of the Committee therefore calls on the government to develop a strategy to stimulate demand for green, wood-based products and return to this strategy during 2017. The majority of the Committee also considers that the risk-adjusted return requirement for Renewable AS should at least not be higher than for purely financial placements and that it must be clearly stated in the mandate that the company should be an instrument for the development of green industrial workplaces in Norway and contribute to the development of activities using Norwegian natural resources. An important change that has already been made is the change in Investinor’s mandate for forest management, so that they can now invest in modern forest holdings. This has been requested. Now we have delivered through the budget agreement in the autumn. Something that has not been delivered so far is the tax credit scheme for forest owners investing in industrial purposes. This is on the government platform, and it is a majority of the committee that is now asking the government to submit proposals for such a scheme in the context of the 2018 budget. Incentives to the increased use of wood in buildings are another important measure to which the Committee points. The public is a major and important developer, and the Committee asks the government to focus on the use of wood in the preparation of the regulation of the new law on public procurement. And a majority asks the government to make sure that three are used more in building in public procurement. The Committee is also concerned with recruitment and vocational training in forestry. Recruitment provides the basis for further development of this industry, and it is therefore necessary to work strategically on this. On the tap, I would like to stress that it is important that we have good safety and preparedness around our forest. There is reason to believe that there are too few concrete contingency plans in forestry. This is serious, and the Stortinget therefore asks the government to work towards several contingency plans. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words about the Christian People's Party's commitment to the forest. The Christian People's Party has worked a lot on forest policy in this period. We have given priority to infrastructure and transport in our alternative budgets and we have also been able to implement this in the negotiations with the government. We have fought for a bioeconomy strategy, and we have raised the forest industry as a strategically important industry for our country. I am pleased that we are now seeing results through the current committee position, where the vote is based on these basic principles developed in the light of the rapporteur's comments, but also on the need to ensure the sustainable management of our forests. I recommend with the attitude of this committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1202	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1207	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the rapporteur for his good work and for his good work. But the Christian People's Party does not have a note where one indicates that, through ownership in Statskog, one is guaranteed the right to have large and important natural resources of great importance to society, and that Statskog can have an important role to play in further developing Norwegian forest industry. The Christian People's Party is also not involved in proposals to stop the ongoing arrondissement sale. To NTB today, Espen Farstad in the Norwegian League of Hunters and Fishermen states the following: ‘In principle, it was only about the sale of savoury people, but it turns out that there is a real sale of moor, hay and water in progress. This is the Norwegian heritage silver itself.’ Does not the Christian People's Party see the possibilities of further developing State Forests to play an important role in the forest industry as a possible important industrial player in the green shift, and that we should not sell out more of this heritage silver?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1219	Thank you very much for the nice words that the representative Omland gives me. For the Christian People's Party, forest industry is a strategically important industry, and the arrondering sales that State Forest has done so far have just strengthened the local forest owners. It is important for the Christian People's Party just to use instruments that we have, to make the forest owners a little more economical, by getting a good forest where they can take out even more functions, be an even better CO 2 friend – and give the representatives Omland and Hemdal a good tour experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1229	Today, Norwegian species die at an extremely high rate – a thousand times faster than normal – and every fifth species in Norwegian nature is at risk of extinction if we do nothing. This list displays the current view of the image. Then there is a comment in the setting as SV is the only party that is not in it, where the committee believes that there is a positive development in the forests, and that the ‘biological diversity of the Norwegian forests is increasing’. I have a very hard time understanding that. There has been a marginal decrease in the number of species on the red list, but that means that all species on the red list are species about to die out – a marginal decrease. How does one then understand this as that the biological deficiency is increasing? By comparison, when you have a sub-account and a sub-account becomes a little smaller, you're not going to get exactly positive. How does the Christian People's Party manage to mean this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1238	Thank you for an important line. As the setting adds up, we'll see the forest for more than just trees. The biodiversity in the forest is important, and when it says that 48 pst. Of the red-listed species found in the forest, we've done a lot of work. And I said in my post that here the pressure must stay up. But the way we read it, and with the knowledge we're sitting with, there's a positive trend here. It has to keep going, we have to work on it systematically. The pressure must be held up in order to reduce the number of species on the red lists and more freshly reported – if we can say so.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1245	When there is a positive trend, it depends on the eye that sees – it's a little less bad. The development that every fifth species is about to die out is, of course, terrible. That there will be a tiny little – marginal – change in that, of course, is positive, but it is still bad. But when the Committee finds out that the biological deficiency in the Norwegian forests is increasing – how does the representative of the Christian People's Party manage to support such a claim?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1250	I also thank you for this line. Yes, it's a little better – if I'm going to use the representative's words – but everything that's better is good in this context. With the knowledge I have as a parliamentarian, we were worse a few years ago in terms of the Red List species. We had bigger challenges. Here the industry has taken responsibility, here the state has taken responsibility, here all men have taken responsibility for taking care of important growing areas, important biological reasons that these species need to develop. I think we should also talk about when we have a positive change, and then I said that the pressure has to stay up, we have to work more in this area, but the trend is positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1257	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1263	It is nice to be able to calm down after the previous matter with a little walk in the woods. Many will need that! We're a lot of people who've been looking forward to dealing with the forest reports here in Stortinget. I would also like to extend my heartfelt thanks to the rapporteur for the work that has been done – not just that practical, but we feel the commitment, and that is very important. The forest is a large and important resource for many of us and has a great potential for increased value creation and industrial activity, especially the last. The Labour Party and I are surprised that the government has not given greater attention to the potential that lies here, at a time when there is a great need for change and the creation of new jobs, and also with the win-win situation in being able to exploit this resource from a climate perspective. As politicians, we believe from the Labour Party that we must be willing to build up under this potential, take action and pursue an industrial policy that facilitates new jobs based on the forest – actually the opposite of business neutrality. When the message finally arrived, we were several who called for action and a real willingness to bet on this from the government. It says quite a lot about the government's lack of active enterprise policy that the government put forward a proposal for the state budget about parallel to the forest announcement, where they proposed to wind up the three-based innovation programme. One boasts the innovation programme, in the message, but the other, in the budget paper, puts it down. We saw it as a targeted program that targets the forest. The programme has also produced good results, as the government describes both in the state budget and in the forest report. Nevertheless, the programme would be terminated. Once again, this was saved by the majority in Stortinget. I mention this as an example, because when we're going to approach this sector as well, it's really about the difference in how we view the use of tools towards those who feed. I notice that the government parties in the vote recognize that the forest industry needs to strengthen its competitiveness, but the following comment from the Right and the Advance Party says most of all: «In the forest industry, these members recognise that there is an entirely industrial environment to be repatriated after many years of low competitiveness. This is a major challenge but is not addressed by political decisions.’ In the Labour Party, we see it a little bit differently. We believe that a forest investment would be part of the solution also with policy decisions relating to global emissions and resource challenges, while giving the mainland economy more legs to stand on. When we presented the Woods of Norway strategy in 2013, it was well received in the industry. Since then, we've had SKOG22, as most people here know, that forms a lot of the basis for this. According to the message, about 43 pst. of our country forested, and the areas are increasing. Over time, the harvest has been lower than the growth rate, and today we have an annual increase of about 25 million cubics, while the harvest is about 13. The SKOG22 report estimates that sustainable production and extraction of forest raw material can be increased by 35 p.m., but then the framework conditions promoting such increased use of the forest and the conditions under which the forest industry operates must be predictable and long-term. It is also necessary to facilitate the availability of forest resources for industrial applications. It is a major challenge, and political decisions are not the only solution, but some political decisions may be helpful. That is why in our alternative budgets we have chosen to increase the appropriations for, for example. logging marks and forest roads, in order to ensure the competitiveness of the industry. And that is why we are now proposing the establishment of a national timber transport plan on which investments are needed to ensure efficient transport by sea, rail and road. In addition, of course, we must also contribute to stimulating new technologies. Then there is a broad consensus that there is a need for capital schemes that can build up under industrial investment. We from the Workers' Party are excited about what the new Renewable AS is going to be. We expect from the Labour Party that there will have to be an instrument for the development of new industrial jobs and the development of activities based on Norwegian natural resources. Finally, this time too, I don't want to link a few words to Statskog. It is the Workers' Party's opinion that the roundabout sale has now reached its limit. I'll leave it down – I'll come back to it. But as an industrial actor and developer, I believe that Statskog should have been given more space, and I hope that the debate will allow for that. I would like to address the proposals to which the Labour Party is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1292	The representative Knut Storberget has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1299	Under the red-green government, the Workers' Party launched a roundabout sale of state forests. They now propose that the ongoing sale be stopped, even though Statskog itself considers that sales will provide a better operational structure for those who can manage the values. Why is it that the Workers' Party feels it is entirely right to sell when they themselves are in government, but does it seem that today's government follows up the Labour Party's policy during the last period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1304	I'll explain. I also received questions about this last year, I think. It's really pretty simple logic. We believe that it is right to make a certain arrondance sale when you buy a forest property as large as you did then – we are not against arrondance in such cases. But that doesn't mean you have to amass almost all of the property, as we know the Progress Party really wants; privatizing everything under the cover of arrondance. It must be allowed to say that a good part of the cadastral parcels were suitable for arrondering, but there is a limit. It's a dynamic process, and we believe that there we are now. We're afraid that selling as large forest properties as you can now do, and such a large volume in total, will help to weaken State Forest, not least in order to develop State Forest to an industrial actor in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1309	It has our broad political agreement that Norway must protect more forests. We have also received criticism of the international nature of our protection. In the past, there have been strong multiples to step up that effort. And of course, there's also a kind of technical question about how to protect yourself here. What we have now done, what has been the international standard for that type of reporting, is that MiS figures, for example. is not part of what is considered to be protection in Norway, but there is something we report to the Parties to the Convention internationally. This is made very unclear in this setting, and one has also been criticised for it. Is it so to understand that the Labour Party has changed its position when it comes to what we are to protect in Norway, and that one is actually going to protect less because it will simply require less reporting with MiS figures?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1316	I do not know whether I am able – I was about to say – to remove the uncertainty of SV regarding this type of relationship. I think it'll always be there. But I feel that the job that the rapporteur and the majority have done in this matter helps to create greater clarity in forest protection than before. I'm very happy about that. I believe that is a bold goal we have set in relation to forest protection. If you had read it from just the productive, I would have been scared, but I think in such a way that this clears up very well. Then I – perhaps in contrast to my good colleague Knag Fylkesnes – belong to the politicians who believe that there is an exceptional amount of good nature protection in good forestry, and that we sometimes overfocus on forest protection and forest protection and believe that it is alone that takes care of the diversity of species and our forests. I come from an agricultural family, and I know it's the opposite in many cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1323	The party of progress had a saying that read: “The future is created – it is not adopted!” As the lawyer finds a very often laws that become the best enemy. The representative himself used the expression: some decisions may be helpful. The question then is whether we should also not bet on removing constraints that lie within the industry, and perhaps especially forest nutrition, and show greater confidence in this industry rather than adopting and adopting. The challenge for the Workers' Party is that by trusting in the industry, no matter what industry it owes, it builds a more future, rather than sitting here on the Bighold and regulating it in detail. Does the representative of Storberget see that such a solution could be better rather than that the Stortinge should sit and control the industry by industry, including forestry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1328	Yes, absolutely. It would be an accident if we here in Stortinget were to sit and regulate the forest industry in detail. As I said in my previous post, I have experience of my own family forestry, and they have never felt it to that extent that Stortinget has operated some detailed regulation in our business plans. I'm glad. So that's where we agree. But if the representative thinks about removing a backbone in Norwegian society like the Norwegian concession law, for example, I do not agree. I think it's a cross of thought that large parts of particular agriculture, but also many in forestry, actually fence about such important regulations. But we can't call that detailing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1333	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1338	One gets to hope a trip to the forest won't be an anti-climate for others in the debate, because it's a cure for the soul in most contexts. I also want to join and thank both the case rapporteur and the government for what I see as a very good message at the beginning. The rapporteur has followed up very well. That's to a large extent what you can say is a happy agreement, that the forest is going to mean a lot in the future in a lot of contexts, there's a lot of agreement in the committee, and that you're going to bet on it. I think they'll notice that out there. It is not every year that Stortinget gets a forest report for treatment. There has traditionally been much more focus on agriculture, which is the second part of agriculture. But forest is completely different from agriculture, as you live with completely open borders, you have no customs protection and you live in a free international market. I'll get back to that a little bit. Since the consensus is so big – we have things that separate us, I'm going to come back to – I could imagine going back a little bit historically, because the forest and forest industries have actually been one of the carriers to develop Norwegian welfare. We were large net exporters of both works and construction materials across Europe. If we go back 100+ years, we had a forest that today would say was cut off. You almost didn't have an old forest. You had a cubic mass that might have been a tenth of what we have today, and probably a lot less diversity. So there are many arrows pointing in the right direction. We have also had a very long period of time when we were net importers of works. This meant, therefore, that Norwegian woodworking and Norwegian forest industry were so competitive that they could import works from other countries, process them in Norway, create jobs in Norway and then sell out into an international market. The situation changed dramatically between 2005 and 2013. Now we're not going to blame all the policy in that period, but it's an expression of what the oil economy did to the general competitive sector in Norway. For forest industries and forests, in fact, one of the value chains we have in Norway that have only Norwegian costs before going into an international market, and the green period – really the black period – is the green branch we put on for 20-30 years with oil, created a very special level of costs in Norway that the forest industry really did. And then there were other reasons for the decline. Norwegian woodworking was left in an old structure with many small factories from which time ran. We were also taken by the digital switch by the fact that Norwegian Forest was within newspaper and magazine paper. But the final point is that it made the impression that you're dealing with a sunset industry. That's far from right. All of the major segments in woodworking are growing. It's just Norway that was inside the crazy segments. It is a bit of a task for politics and not least for the industry itself to lift itself out of the mark of being in sunset and into sunrise. If we take both the message and the setting, it points to the fact that this opens up a huge number of possibilities. It is not just in the climate field, where everyone now agrees that the forest plays a significant role, and where we are already binding up half of Norway's emissions, but it can play a significant role in terms of using more wood. Then we bind carbon into buildings, that's an effective way to bind it. We have the bioeconomy, where you now say that everything that's made of oil can be made of wood. It opens up enormous possibilities. We have Borregaard, who is now all drawing on as a shining example of how well Norwegian industry can explore the opportunities that lie in the bioeconomy. I also think it's a cross of thought, because if you had asked that question 20 years ago, what you would bet on by Norwegian woodworking, was not the answer to Borregaard. Then Borregaard was considered to be the ones who put back in something old, and Norwegian Forest was what you were going to bet on. There's a little bit of learning for us politicians, it's actually the industry itself that needs to figure out the products that are going to carry the industry forward. There's a big challenge. We have the discussion about biofuels, which is not least a climate solution, but which can also open up completely new opportunities for Norwegian industry. So I'm very pleased with what's the focus of the message, and that's that the government has a focus on building competitiveness. It has invested enormously in infrastructure, we heard that from the case-in-law rapporteur how important it is. Getting the timber till the industry was heard in the hearing that was 30 pst. of the costs. That chain is no better than its weakest joint. The fact that roads are written up so that you can now effectively start using the sixty-tonne combination of vehicles throughout the value chain is very important to develop this industry. That committee also asks, a trial project of 74 tonnes so that we don't once again end up far behind our Nordic neighbours and competitors, I think it's important. The government has invested enormously in R & D. It is extremely important in relation to the bioeconomy, and the fact that there are general instruments which also cover the forest industry does not disqualify the enormous effort being made in the sector. As I said, basically, it is the industry itself that needs to find the opportunities, and that needs to create the new industry and invest in it. We've done something for Investinor, but we don't know that it's the private ownership that's going to have to bear most of it. The Committee also agrees to look at taxes and to use forest fees for investment. But it's a significant task for the industry itself to raise that capital. This cannot be achieved without strong private ownership in Norway. So there too the government does a lot. We all know the disagreement about property structure and what it takes to increase the use of the Norwegian forest resource. There I think it was said in the hearing that we need a little more industrial thinking in Norwegian forest industry. I think that would have been done by starting to relax property regulation. That's where we know that there's going to be some dividing lines. So what is essentially the big disagreement, it came out a little bit in the previous post, also applies to the extent to which one can adopt new plants in the Norwegian forest industry. I do not think that is the role of politics. What is the role of policy is to facilitate the framework conditions for good development, and it is up to the actors themselves to find out where the future lies. There's, of course, a clear dividing line in the hall. It's always the opposition's role to be even more impelling, but you might want to see your own drive in the light of what happened in the eight years before this period – but when you propose to create a meeting place between the industry and the authorities where you discuss the development of the industry, I don't think that's the solution. The government has done a lot to facilitate the framework conditions, and I hope that enough of the actors out there can see the possibilities that we can once again have offensive forestry in Norway, which, for me, would be a net importer of work, because that means that we really have competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1361	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1367	I will continue a bit where the representative Gundersen left off in his post. It is quite right that there is a dividing line in the Great Britain related to the forward trend in the use of policy instruments, because – as the comments from the Right and the Advance Party say – a whole industrial environment “after many years of low competitiveness” is a “great challenge”. I agree, but then one goes on to say: but it 'is not solved by political decisions'. It is sometimes that we can read comments that some other reader reads the Bible, but is the lack of zeal so rooted in the Right and the Advance Party that there is no possibility of using political decisions to develop the industry related to the forest?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1376	No, absolutely not – we got news today that Enova can now go in and support pilot plants within a number of industrial genres. We have a totally different view of what is active. I believe that investing in infrastructure and focusing on general research and development is an enormously active policy. I believe that investing in private ownership is a very active policy. I could imagine returning it. The fact that you have to pick up and invest in some industries politically means that you have to deprioritize others, because someone has to pay that bet. I simply do not share the definition of representative Storberget in terms of what is active. I think we're running a propelling policy. We create room for the forest industry to evolve, and it is the actors themselves who must seize the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1383	It is – as the representative Gundersen said – a major consensus in the setting, which will mean a great deal to the forest industry in the future, a strategically important industry. We need to build competitiveness. As the representative was in – and also I – expenditure on infrastructure is approx. one third for a forest owner. In the setting, there is a consensus that you should look at whole packages. We've picked out, among other things. «Inland Goods Package» as a concrete package, agreed by the entire Committee, because it is strategically important to increase its competitiveness. So it's just out of curiosity I'm asking this question to Gundersen: where we other mention an amount – in another remark – of approx. 20 B.C.E. kr, is not the party of the representative of Gundersen. Do you agree on the principle, but not on the amount?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1390	I think that's absolutely right. We seem to be getting involved in what another committee is dealing with and should give priority to. That's exactly why we kept away from that remark. Starting to give priority to money for transportation in the position of the Business Committee, I may not be very well received in the Committee on Transport. But that also means that we agree with that priority. «Inland Goods Package» is a very interesting opportunity – not just for the hinterland, it goes all the way up to Northern Ireland – where you work together on efficient rail freight transport out of the country and down to Europe. That's very interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1397	In fact, I would like to take up the thread where the Storberget ended, because I have also noticed in the somewhat surprising wording of the comment, that a «after many years of weak competitiveness» is going back to «a totally industrial environment». It is ‘a major challenge but not addressed by political decisions’. I thought that it's interesting that it's in a document, it's a big political decision – as it reveals the paradox. So Gundersen mentions that we have to bet on infrastructure, we have to bet on general tools. That's political decisions, so this is very hard to understand. Then one sees in another context that a cut in three-based innovation programs, and one goes loose on Investinor, one takes out the scheme that will intervene directly here. In other countries, when one stands in front of huge industrial possibilities, the public authorities are investing – even the most right-wing governments in the world. But here in Norway, there is an advocacy and wording such as 'not being solved by political decisions'. How does Gundersen explain this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1404	I think you read the comment a little bit as Fanden reads the Bible. Of course, infrastructure, investing in research and development, investing in private ownership through tax havens and the kind of thing definitely political decisions – I don't even want to try to counter or disprove it. The point is that we're going to bet widely and let the choice of what to bet on become the industry. I think that's a pretty significant distinction. I'm using the example of Borregaard: You never had anyone in the Stortinget 20 years ago say that Borregaard would be what was going to be the star in woodworking. I know that situation quite well. Then to Investinor. We didn't want to cut Investinor's wings. We wanted them to invest with private people. It goes again that one wanted to bring state capital together with competent private capital. That, I think, is the way to go to create optimism in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1413	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1418	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office, Line Henriette Hemdal, for his good work. Today's forest report will have a major impact on future forest industries. I'm glad that a joint committee, as stated in the comments, sees the forest as more than just a tree, and as a place where important values and jobs are created. Active and profitable forestry and a competitive forest industry play a major role in the construction, employment and industrial development of large parts of the country. Forest is an important and traditional nourishment for Norway. About 25,000 people work in the forest-based industry, and it provides a range of export revenues. Norway is one of the best in the world when it comes to innovation and innovation around the use of forest-based raw materials, which today covers everything from building materials to bio-economy and processed raw materials. Norway’s forest activity and other tree growth represent an area of approximately 43 pst. of the Norwegian land area. Forest tigers sold a total of 10.2 million cubic metres of timber for industrial purposes in 2015. This is the highest level since 1990. In addition, each year, between 2 and 3 million cubic metres of wood are harvested. The volume of Norwegian forests has ranged from about 300 million cubic metres in 1925 to over 900 million in 2015. This reflects the potential of Norwegian forestry. The forest industry experiences more than a time-lapse of the value of the timber when it is processed. In addition, wood is an important renewable raw material which, in many contexts, can replace petroleum-based raw material. In order to strengthen this industry, it is therefore important that we, as politicians, do what we can to make it possible for the industry to have the framework conditions for further growth. Therefore, I am pleased that this government, with the Right and the Advance Party, is proposing to strengthen the infrastructure of forestry. A well-functioning forest road network is crucial in order to be able to operate profitable forestry. For this reason, it is positive that a broad majority in the Committee agrees with the government to further develop the forest road network even on coastal routes through targeted use of land cover and forest funds without disrupting natural and outdoor diversity. The effort on timber brands is also an important element in this, as well as facilitating the profitable use of forest resources along the coast. It is also very important to repair bottlenecks that prevent efficient transport of timber in cooperation with forestry and wood industries. This is something the Progress Party has had ambitions in a few years, and it is about to be done. Norwegian forest policy shall also provide the basis for a sustainable management of forest resources that takes into account important environmental values and all species living in forests and land. As a result, it is good for the message to be used to estimate environmental values and biological deficiencies. In this way, increasing use of biomass from forests in the short and long term is an important measure to achieve the climate targets we have seen. Forestry has a number of years of work to do with profitability. Therefore, it is important that we facilitate human investment in this industry, and not least live from it. It is therefore positive that the plurality in the Committee believes that forest funds are of decisive importance to Norwegian forest owners. These are important resources that can be used, among other things. construction and conversion of forest roads, forestry planning and environmental measures. So this is part of the important arrangements that secure capital for long-term investments in the forest. Therefore, it is crucial that we continue the forest fund scheme. I still ask myself why SV is not included in the comments, but is not really surprised. Investing in research and innovation is also important with regard to investment in industry. The government, together with the partners, has strengthened the commitment to industrial research and innovation by 2.3 billion. kr since we took over in 2013. Such investments are important for the implementation of good and profitable industrial projects in the woodworking industry. We will continue this work, and it will be important for the future recruitment to the industry. In sum, what we are adopting today will strengthen the forest industry in this country with regard to infrastructure, investment, recruitment and the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1441	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1446	This paper has good descriptions of the potential challenges for industry, but offers few and little concrete measures. The majority ask the government to develop a strategy for a holistic and reinforced commitment to research and development in the forest and wood industries. The Party recognises that the industrial environment is now to be repatriated, but that it is not to be resolved by political decisions. Then it is interesting to hear how this industrial environment is to be repatriated from its own handling.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1453	I have to say that I wonder when I see what the trust is in an industry that in many ways has to find the way forward. We need to fix the framework conditions that need to be put through what I need to do. mentioned in my post. It owes road, it owes transport, and transport, as mentioned earlier, is a cost of 30 pst. We're in there and we're doing what we need to do to bring the cost down. It is such that one cannot adopt future ones. The future needs to be created, and it needs to be created by an industry that has framework conditions around it that allow it to evolve. If you're going to wait for the public to adopt and add proper arrangements, we're actually creating a society that none of us are excited about, because it'll make random future political pluralities what sets the framework. There's no fire.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1461	One of the most important framework conditions for the forest industry is that we are able to find a good balance between use and protection, and that we are not tempted to adopt symbolic actions that provide strong political leadership. An example of this is when the Progress Party went in to protect 10 pst. of the forest in Norway - no focus on protection values, but a target of 10 pst. The centre party has proposed that the size should ask the government not to add protection of 10 pst. of the forest. We had thought that there might be a proposal that the Progress Party had the sense of and could support. My question is, why does the Advance Party want to protect 10 pst? of the forest?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1470	As mentioned in several articles, forests and forest resources have grown considerably, and they also grow significantly in areas where it will never be profitable to take them out. That might be more than 10 pst. of the forest resources that we have. It is not to the detriment of forest nutrition that such a measure is adopted. Of course, we're going to base it on freedom of choice. I believe that in the future we will experience that significantly larger parts than 10 pst. Will grow free and not get high, simply because it is not profitable to take out the forest – it is neither industrial nor otherwise profitable to take out these resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1475	What has marked the amazing technology and competence development of oil clusters in the South of the West has been that the public has invested tremendous resources in the industry. Great successes in the past — the development of hydropower, etc. – in Norway, the signs have been that one has done it well, one has gone together, a cooperation between industrial actors and the public. One goes abroad, e.g. to the United States, one sees that the big space effort there would never happen if the industry had done it alone, or the IT sector for the sake of the cause. There's also an understanding that if you really want to speed up a new area, it's absolutely crucial that the public is involved. Then is the question to the representative from the Progress Party, who is presenting a holding-fing-of-the-fat policy: can he find one example from Norway or abroad where one has managed to achieve great success without the public being a good player?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1484	Several examples have now been identified in this context in relation to the question asked by the representative. But if it were to be so that it was the political decisions in the Storting that solved the major challenges: we are today in the biggest challenge we've had in many, many decades, because the prices of petroleum are very low. Then the question is, What kind of decision does one expect to be made in the Storting, which would resolve this crisis? That's a good example of one being forced to create the future. One is required to be real orientated. One can, of course, take action, as was done by this government with packages of measures to help those who become frames, but it does not solve any problem for the petroleum industry as long as prices are at their level. Therefore, one cannot solve the problem through political decisions in the Stortinget. That's a good example.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1489	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1494	Let me start by thanking the case manager for a good job and a good job today, which is easy to join. Let me also thank the representative Gunnar Gundersen for a good storytelling in his article. I would like to thank the Council of State for providing a message about the state of the forest and the forest industry, as the industry thought it was good to read, without the message being engrossed with measures and suggestions that spoiled the reading space. The forest is amazing. The forest is far more than the sum of the trees. Forest is animal life, biological deprivation, it is important in climate context, it provides the basis for outdoor life and, not least, it is a resource to create values from. We have a lot of forest, but we've been too poor to use the forest industrially to create jobs. Following the examination in the committee, there have been more clear leads, and there have been concrete measures that I am registering are well received in the industry. That's good. In my view, five areas are important. Firstly, infrastructure. Forest roads, but also the ordinary public road network, and measures for larger vehicles must be in place. The second is the balance between forest and protection. The centre party has been critical of the proposal to protect 10 pst. So today we hear that there's nothing to care about because it won't have any impact on the ability to operate forestry. Then one might wonder why this proposal was so important to get through. It seems to me that others who were on the proposal have a slightly different approach to it. The third measure is to implement measures in the forest such as forest planting, fertilisation, etc. There is also a very clear setting. A fourth measure is to increase the use of wood and facilitate the demand for products produced by wood in public supply. It'll be central. One last point is access to capital. To build an industry, need a capital. We in the Central Party believe that the state must also contribute here, both by facilitating fund arrangements and by providing money. We have proposed an own fund for green carbon. We're still waiting for Renewbar AS. We're kind of excited about what it looks like. But the most important thing is that this becomes a powerful tool that can set up with capital and that has a long time horizon and a return requirement that makes one take the risk that it is necessary to build a new industry. There has been a lot of talk about ownership structure. I think it's a blind lead to believe that there's a misunderstanding between ownership structure and efficient operation. It's possible to do both. Of course, it is positive that ownership is traded, but it is possible with a scattered, private ownership while ensuring efficient forest management. It's about organization. As you can see, the discussion of the concession law is oversized, I think, because if the forest is sold at a value that facilitates forest operation, the concession law does not stand in the way. But the concession law was designed to secure Norwegian ownership of the forest resource. I mean, when we're going to have a common forest policy for Norway, the Norwegian ownership of the forest has to be very firm. The center part has a relaxed relationship with the arronding room that was started from Statskog when we were in government. Of course we will follow it closely, but unlike the Working Party and SV we have not found a reason to pull the sewing brake now. We trust that the property will be traded, and we record that it is mostly local, private buyers. It's positive. I would like to mention proposal No. 5, from the Centre Party and SV, and proposal No. 6 from the Center Party. I would also like to inform you that the Central Party supports proposal No. 8 from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1519	The representative Geir Pollestad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1526	In the eight red-green years, Norway went from being a net importer to becoming a net exporter of wood, and the timber industry was shut down. The red-green government did not do enough to strengthen the framework conditions for this industry. Now they believe that today's government is too passive, even though we have almost doubled the infrastructure investment, has a historical commitment to research and development and much more. What's the reason why the Center Party was so passive in the last period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1533	I think that much of the answer to the development of the forest industry in that period we got presented in a good way by Gunnar Gundersen's representative earlier. But I disagree that there was a passive policy. I want to show that we're starting the arrondering hall in Statskog. We established a separate scheme for the forest industry within Investinor. We presented a package of measures for the forest industry, which was well received by the industry. So there were things happening. We made changes to running gear. We facilitated increased use of timber and increased transport of timber on the public road network. It is clear that developments are progressing, so we are making more and more periods of time. Now we are in a transition period for our country. Then it is important to invest heavily in this industry. And I want to add: I never experienced during the so-called eight red-green years that Right shouted: Now we have to stop the oil industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1540	The centre party suggests that we should facilitate greater use of wood. I have had the opportunity to build some buildings myself, both industrial buildings and ordinary dwellings, and I am currently recording that compared to three, it is cheaper to use steel in the framework of the interior, among other things. in these buildings. That means that something just can't compete. It simply won't be cost-effective enough to use wood. How does the Central Party think that we should be able to make greater use of wood other than through the measures outlined by the Department and the Multi-Plural setting, which are efficient transport systems, etc., which reduces the cost of wood? Or does the Center Party think that one of these has to subsidize this too, so that one gets a greater use of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1547	Let me start by saying that when it comes to building houses and what kind of materials are going to be in travel workshops, I have a weak competence in it and trust the assessments of the questioner. But one of the points that we actually point to is that the public that buys can go to the front. This means that one should not only demand the cheapest goods for purchases, but also think about life-cycle costs, and that this is a contribution to the creation of a larger market. I also believe that I would like to be able to work on the private company that makes the purchase. But we have no plans to prohibit the use of steel in construction. However, we point to the specific responsibilities of the public, and I am pleased that a majority in the Committee is doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1553	A little comment on the previous article: One of us has a policy today to suggest that we buy cheap steel from China rather than environmentally friendly steel from Mo. Then one gets the situation one gets. In my world, the modern forest and farmer is a person who is occupied by Norwegian nature and by the proper care of the forest. It's supposed to be real work, and one doesn't like the situation you're in now, where Norwegian nature becomes sweaty day by day and dies at an enormous speed and at an enormous pace. Everyone working on this -- I think -- understands that this is serious in the long term, for the next generations. So the Central Party takes a rather dramatic turn and ignores the conventions that Norway has committed to, and the decisions that we have made in the past on forest protection, and simply suggest that we ignore the 10 pst. goal. Can the representative explain to me how this is related?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1560	The centre party also has great confidence in those who are involved in forestry and agriculture in Norway. Some even go as far as to refer to them as nuclear selectors. We believe that those who live densely in nature have a great interest in taking care of nature. Then there is a key here – «trust» – it is about trust. Trust is important. When it comes to protection, we put ourselves in favour of voluntary protection. And yes, we recognize that we should have protection, but protection must be based on what is the value of protection, not a percentage. That's what the value of protection is, and what has such a high value for the community that we want to use as much action as the protection is, which will be decisive. Let me add that we were also critical of introducing this 10 p.m. protection and voted – as the only party on the Stortinget – against it. So the policy is consistent.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1567	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1572	Forest is an industry and natural resource that is important for the Left. The forest is important as an industry, as a place of recreation, and it is not least an important element in achieving climate objectives. For the left, therefore, the forest is very central in the green shift that we are now inside. Forests have been important for Norway in the past and will become important for Norway in the future. I think it's appropriate to give praise to the Minister of Agriculture and Food for having made a message that describes the forest industry and the industry's opportunities in a good way. I also think that we in the Business Committee have been given a constructive process that has given room to further strengthen the communication on which it has been based. Thank you to the President-in-Office for a good process in the Committee. There are some aspects of the message and the settings that are of particular interest to the Left. In particular, I would like to highlight the important role of forests in climate action. This has been well discussed in the Communication and the Committee's position underlines this work further. The forest’s carbon storage potential is important and the raw materials supplied by the forest can be exploited even better in terms of both construction and bioenergy, as well as increased forest growth. It doesn't at least determine the setting. I am also pleased that the suspension states that Norway must take a leading role in the emerging bioeconomy. That space is important for Norway to take. The three-based innovation programme under Innovation Norway includes, inter alia: The left's contribution has been increased in its framework. It is important that this type of development programme has a good framework for the coming years, so that forest industries can exploit their full potential. In order to take advantage of the opportunities for growth, this includes, inter alia: important with good plant material. It is good that it is now set up to continue and strengthen work on plant processing. In order to exploit the potential for wood use, inter alia: In the construction industry, it is important that, for example: in the country’s procurement rules facilitate the increased use of wood in construction. I am pleased that the majority of the committee in the vote underlines the need for a targeted use of such instruments. I would also like to emphasise that the majority of the Committee points out that more research and consideration is needed on the possibility of using biomass from forests as feed in the farming industry. There's real possibilities here. In the case of forest protection, the Left sees that there is still some work to be done before the target of 10 pst. the protection has been achieved. The state of the environment in Norwegian forests can still improve, and there is still a lot of environmental work to be done, but there is an important majority comment on this in the position. Good transport is a prerequisite for efficient forestry. I am glad that in the setting we were informed about the importance of Freight Package Inland. This will include, inter alia: provide a railway operation which will also have a positive impact on my home country, More and Romesdal, and it will provide better capacity northwards, in addition to the clearly positive effect it will have on the East and the Inland. In addition to the railway operation, the network of lumber tags must be strengthened. The use of a boat for transport is effective and, in particular, large parts of Coast Norway will benefit from such a bet. I think it is important that we get value creation and industrial use of biomass from forest in Norway. It is therefore gratifying that the majority of the Committee has supported the proposals to strengthen industrial innovation, seed funds and eco-innovation schemes under Innovation Norway, as well as the TaxFUNN. These are schemes that are important to the Left, and that we will continue to fight to do even better. The future nature of the forest as an important pre-miss provider is determined by this Communication and not least by the Committee's attitude. The left will continue to ensure that the economic development of the forest industry takes place in good interaction with the rest of society and in a sustainable way that contributes to the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1595	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1600	The Labour Party has always been concerned that infrastructure measures are one of the most important means of strengthening the competitiveness of Norwegian forestry. There has always been a mystery to me – and the representative of Farstad knows it very well – why the Left in budgetary terms is of those who are most opposed to granting some stimulus in order to build up the forest road network in Norway, so I intend to use the last seconds of this line to just point out it very positively as I read in the comments on page 20 in the setting: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the member of the Socialist Left Party, agrees with the Government’s objective of further developing the forest road network through targeted use of grants and forest funds’. Does it now mean that the Left's budget line to cut consistently in subsidies to forest roads has been abandoned?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1610	I think it is wonderful to be able to confirm to the representative Storberget that we are on our way in a direction that the representative likes well. I think that what we've been saying – which is absolutely a majority remark, including the Left – is going in a good direction, and I'm going to end it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1615	On the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1620	The representative of Farstad said in his post that the forest is important to the Left in order to achieve climate targets and also for the green shift. It's recognizable. So it was a little surprising when I read the statement, that the Left is satisfied with the government's follow-up to the bioeconomy strategy. The consensus of the party of Farstad and the party of the undersigned in the budget is that we increased – but nevertheless left satisfied. Is it an incurrence that the Left is outside that note?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1625	I think it's very positive that it's noticed such a detail, if you like – it might not be a detail. But I do think that the bioeconomy strategy and the work we have done, among other things. along with the Christian People's Party, is very positive. I'll be careful to say exactly that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1630	Many people have our surprise at the line of the Left in this matter. Where the left has been very clear on the 10 pst target for forest protection, one in this setting begins to make it unclear whether that target actually stands by layers. And the left is within notes where one claims ‘that the biodiversity of the Norwegian forests is increasing’. How can you get it to hang on to your hands? It is simply a marginal decrease in the red list of species, but it means that there is still a sharp decline in the biological deficiency. Does the representative of the Left really think that they can still accept the wording of the setting, that ‘biological diversity in Norwegian forests is increasing’?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1638	First of all, the ten pst. formulations: I think it must be very clear, what it says in the form of a comment, and I hope that the Minister for Agriculture can also comment on later today, how he understands that wording. It doesn't seem to me to be misunderstanding. To the second question, I base the information I have received on this, and I cannot say anything more than that to the representative Knag Fylkesnes. I have to assume that the information that is being provided here now is correct, and I'm dealing with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1645	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1650	The forest is a very central part of Norwegian nature, of which we are all proud, of which we like to use, and which is important in the ecosystem. Norwegian nature wear. About half of the threatened and threatened species on the Norwegian Red List for Species have their habitat in the forest. For 85 pst. of these, forestry is the greatest threat. The many species have both intrinsic value and a known or unknown value for industry, medicine or ecosystem functionality. Policy must therefore be such that business interests do not lead to an additional weakening of Norwegian nature. It's within the scope of the work we have the limitations we have to set ourselves, and we've also seen ourselves through different conventions, laws and conciliation before, and until now there's a cross-political consensus to stop the loss of natural diversity. In the settings of the nutrition committee, it is very different. Across the board, we see that what has been a unity in the past is now suddenly completely open, for example. how the committee undermines the 10 pst. target for the protection of Norwegian forests, or when the committee goes a long way in suggesting that biomass extraction should be increased to 15 million cubic metres, a goal itself not thought by the government was naturally defensive of entering. Let me take some examples where I mean the Storting today takes decisions that can be devastating to Norwegian nature. Climate change 2020 suggests that it is possible to increase CO2 capture by measures such as tighter planting, planting on new land, forest plant processing and increasing fertiliser use. These are very contentious measures. Afterwards, the Directorate for Nature Management has gone through climate change estimates, and they assume that 20 pst. of the actions in the Climate Action Programme, ‘may conflict significantly with natural diversity and other important environmental values’. The main conflicts are related to the climate change policy measures that deal with just forestry. In addition, climate change underlines that the measures do not represent proposals for concrete actions, but only reveal opportunities and action spaces in a further work on new climate communication. In particular, the rest of the Committee takes the measures literally, without taking them into account. I don't think the authors of Klimakur thought that was the way they would use it. Furthermore, the majority in the committee, all with the exception of SV, uses SKOG22 when they indicate that we can increase the extraction of timber by 35 pst. in a resilient manner. We can't see that it's well documented that we can increase the maximum so dramatically in a resilient way. SKOG22 was also an expert group set down by government, and this became largely the industry's own document and is a weak source. Other sources show on the contrary that increasing the maximum can produce significant, negative consequences for natural disasters and climate. The majority of the Committee applauds what they refer to as a positive development for biodiversity in forests. It shall apply, inter alia, to: the red list species, which may be the most special. Firstly, there is no real decline in the number of endangered species, as the committee claims there is – there are marginally fewer red lists on the 2015 list compared to the 2010 list. But second, just the fact that there are crazy many species in forest that are about to be gone forever, and that there is a marginal decrease in this large number, makes the big picture that Norwegian nature is being destroyed day by day. A marginal decrease in the number of red lists just means that the trend is less negative, not positive. So to the 10 pst. goal. The majority claim in a note: «The size is reported. Paragraph 14 states that the forest's own reserves in the form of MiS figures and unproductive non-proportional land shall be included in the proportion reported as protected in the future.» [[2015-2016]] This is, in my opinion, an error interpretation of what is in the Storing message. MiS figures should be able to count with when reporting to the Bioaccumulation Convention, but not when reaching the target of 10 pst. protection in Norway. The little finta is pretty big. I am a hot follower of the industrial exploitation of forest, but it must be done in a sustainable way. That's the framework we have to set for ourselves. Optimal forestry ensures that the extraction contributes to the strengthening of biodeficiency, maximises CO2 capture and facilitates the extraction of Norwegian forests, reduces the need for fossil inputs. Just think – if we think beyond it – about the possibilities that lie in a larger bioeconomy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1685	Does the representative wish to include SV's suggestions in the setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1690	That's what the representative wants to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1695	The representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes then addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1702	The setting indicates that SV is to create jobs based on the forest, but I am more uncertain about the support for several of the tools to build up under this. For example, SV is not involved in a note on measures for denser planting on new areas and forest plant processing, as the representative also elaborated in his article. They will also liquidate the fertiliser grant scheme. Also, the Forest Fund scheme, which has been of great importance for investing in actions in the forest, seems to be negative to SV when I read in the setting. Does SV not also see the need for a more active industrial policy and targeted instruments towards forestry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1707	That's exactly what we have. If the representative looks at our alternative budget, we have just targeted many measures towards the forest industry. Among other things, we have a commitment to a three-tier innovation programme of 55 million. kr, we have a larger program of 150 million. kr to advance the development of bioeconomy, and we want to increase the investment in environmental technology to around NOK 1 billion. All of these are areas that we know will have great significance for the forest industry. But then there's another area where we think it's not wise to bet, for example. before forest culture. Using seeds, and that kind of thing, we're skeptical about, because it can have negative consequences for the biotope. Those are also thoughts we need to have in our head. The representative could also have picked up forest car roads. We mean that 100,000 km by forest road, which is 2.4 times around the world, which is what we have in Norwegian forests, is sufficient. When it comes to the forest fund scheme, we don't want to go into that note, because we think it's time to look at it and go through it properly and critically. It's a very favourable arrangement, and it should perhaps be corrected and pointed more.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1712	I'm going to go so far into a little bit of the same thing as the previous replicator. Forest fertiliser is a recognised instrument for increasing the growth of trees. This brings benefits to the forest industry, by speeding up the growth of the forest, and also brings benefits to the climate, as increased growth increases the carbon capture of the forest. But this goes against SV when they propose to wind up the scheme of subsidies for forest fertilisation. At the same time, SV claims to be concerned with exploiting the ability of forests to absorb CO2. My question is: why can SV not support actions that are good, both for climate and for business?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1719	There are old forests that may give us the greatest climate effects. That's why we're so busy stressing the need for the 10 percent, because there's just old forest we want to get both more off and prevent it from getting cut off. There's one of the biggest gains. When it comes to using forest culture to increase forest capacity, there are a number of well-documented problems with it, including: for biomalgamation, e.g. one can get acidified rivers and destroy the water in the forests. But the second premise that one builds on in the committee is that one takes too good fish that this will bring great social and climate benefits. It's not safe. Here they fight the learned. So here one has to move forward gently and not just throw at something that some strong lobbyists have come up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1727	SV has a separate comment in the setting that says: ‘The member of the Committee of the Socialist Left believes that there is room for an increase in the extraction of forests, but that this must be done in a way that does not harm the natural diversity.’ There is no one in the committee, so I can read it, which is against taking care of the natural diversity – i.e. increasing withdrawals. In addition, SV is involved in a note that indicates that the forestry network is essential in order to be able to operate profitable forestry: ‘A good forest road network ensures access to resources and their efficient use.’ SV is also involved in comments where the Committee points out that: ‘in recent years there has been a strong commitment to upgrading and expanding roads, railways and quays. The Committee considers it important to continue this effort’. Then I'll be a little stunned when I hear the answer from the representative of Omland, that you don't need more forest roads. Is that the written or oral I hear, which is SV's policy here?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1749	That's both of them. We in SV don't add – and it will see our state budget – a very funding of forest roads. We mean there are two negative consequences of that. First of all, this makes very many of the productive forest areas that we want protected, available, and second, we already have a pretty extensive forest road network in Norway today, over 100,000 km. We believe that the major challenges ahead of infrastructure are two things: one is to get the large forest areas connected to the railway network, so that one also becomes connected to the sea. There are several positive effects, including: to obtain the large bioeconomy perspective, which allows a link between forest inputs and marine industries. So for us this hangs closely together. One must understand our context in the state budget and in the setting, but also what I am saying here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1754	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1759	The Green Party wholeheartedly supports a development in which Norwegian forest industry is a much more important part of a future in Norwegian bioeconomy than it is in Norwegian business today, which creates new products, new jobs and new industries based on Norwegian forest. We already see some nice examples of a new spring in the forest industry, with Norwegian Forest, Statkraft and also Bergene Holm's investment in Norwegian biofuels. We already know Borregaard's well-known product range from what was previously just a timber. Obviously, the potential is much greater, and we will undoubtedly facilitate the development of this. This is a necessary future both for the replacement of lost oil workplaces and for the use of competences that come out of, among other things. the oil, while at the same time the economic conditions of a slightly less viable industry as the forest industry improves with the cooling-down of the oil economy. That is why the Greens welcome an offensive report from the Greens to support this development. We have had a debate here, among others. whether political decisions are what can drive and drive a new industry, and we basically agree that we cannot adopt new technologies and new industries here in the main hall. But at the same time, it is quite clear that it is essential to establish a political framework that ensures the development we want and that sets the objectives that we want the industry to meet and pursue. We see this in many other industries as a crucial way of driving industrial development, and it is obvious to us that it must also be done in the forest industry. This is not the same as the detailed management of the industry. One of the key framework conditions for the development of a new Norwegian and multi-spectrum forest industry is that it delivers on the goals that any industry must have in the green and sustainable future, and that is not the same objectives that we have today. They are more demanding, they hang higher, they impose higher environmental and natural requirements. This is also crucial for an industry that can emerge in an international market as an industry that creates confidence in the market and that sells its products on the basis of quality and trust. That is why we are concerned about the trend in the message and, in particular, in the setting, which helps to narrow down under an expected – or a reconstructed – conflict between economic development and nature protection. First of all, we believe, of course, that this is a very problematic direction for the commitments we have to preserve Norwegian nature, but we also believe that this is a very problematic direction for the industry itself. To think that a Norwegian industry should be developed into the green shift on the basis of exempting it from natural and environmental requirements, it is – with respect to reporting – stupid. It does not serve the industry, nor does it generally serve Norwegian economic development. It is a problem that the forest industry is very small in relation to the natural possibilities and the natural challenges that lie in the future. An example of a very important challenge for Norwegian forests that this notification and setting does not at all address is the plans for ferries-free E39 that, as County Lars Sponheim puts it: can destroy very many coastal forests in this part of the Norwegian coast and will be the biggest intervention against one of the most important forest environments in Norway that we have ever had in modern times. There are several such examples. That there is question mark at the target of 10 pst. the quality protection of the productive forest is another example. The third example is when even the Left is in favour of the further development of forest roads, which by definition will be the development of roads where there have not been roads before, and where natural diversity is strongest. This is bad thinking for Norwegian nature diversity. I refer to the proposals of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1774	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1779	Let me start by thanking the committee for delivering an adjustment to the first forest message that has arrived at Stortinget in 18 years. It's an important point in itself that we've created a forest report that now gathers broad support on the Storting for important priorities to ensure that we can manage to have a profitable forest industry, a profitable logging, in Norway as well as the coming years. There are positive developments when logging from Norwegian forests goes up despite the fact that the price has fallen. It shows the willingness and ability of Norwegian forest owners to harvest, to use the forest resources lying there, whether it is for export or to look for new markets at home. Then it's funny actually to be able to assume that this government, along with our two supporting parties, has in many ways reintroduced forest policy during this period. That is the starting point for this message. She's late for a big period, but we don't have doctors on the lat side while we're making it. On the contrary, we have systematically worked to help strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian forest owners, and we have done so in many ways. But first a few words about the message. What this message is very clear is that there is a division of labour and a division of responsibilities between what is the responsibility of the state and what is the responsibility of the industry in the forest sector. There is an unlikely potential to exploit the forest resources available to Norwegian forest owners, to an even greater extent than today. The way in which the state has to facilitate this is to have a competitive policy for all business as a means of ensuring that there is capital that finds the profitable projects also in the forest industry, realizes them and gets to travel new industry. At the same time, it is crucial that we continue to solve the challenges of infrastructure: at the end of the day, the forest owner, who owns the forest, has to decide what assessments you make. This message says clearly that we need a division of labour on it. The bioeconomy strategy presented by the government says the same thing. Some of the most important things we actually do, and as we've already done in this period, is that we've had a significant investment in infrastructure, and not just in road and road. When, from this government's side, we have reduced the maintenance run in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, both on the road and on the railway, it means something for those who have high transport costs and bad intentions to get logistics up. When we wrote up 1000 road lists, there is something that previous governments could have prioritised to strengthen the basis of competition, to reduce costs. But they have chosen not to do so. Now, when we propose a new bottleneck system, which is supported by the plurality here, and when we wrote up several ways to tolerate 60 tons and increase the length of the wooden wagon train to 24 meters, it means something for the cost of the forest owners getting on their way to the market. Therefore, this government is building on well-managed work in this forest message, for example. a doubling of the set-aside, an almost equal increase in forest roads and new blending requirements for biofuels, which the four co-operation parties have been behind. It's nice when you've been following this debate for almost half an hour, to spend a little time on the tap to reflect around some of the points from the debate, among other things. that the Labour Party is now to stop the arrondering room in State Forest before we have sold out as much forest as the Labour Party while they were in government, said it was reasonable to sell at the arrondering room. At least it's okay to mean the same things when you're in position, like when you're in opposition, if you're going to have trustworthiness in forestry policy as well. The second thing that is worth noting is that the Centre Party and the Labour Party are potentially going to continue to get multiple numbers together with the Swedish Forest Policy Department. After following SV in today's debate, I think it is important to wish them luck, because they have shown a complete derailment of all logical reasoning. When they say that we need to strengthen the ability to use wood, one also needs to provide infrastructure into the forest to extract it. It's only in the Storting it's possible to have such a debate. For most forest owners, it appears to be relatively remote from reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1792	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1797	I almost want to say thank you to the Council of State for tonight. It sounds more exciting than it was. We were at a very lengthy agricultural debate on the Jären, which shows the eagerness to exploit the resources we are discussing. I have registered that the government parties particularly want to find out that it is appropriate to improve further processing, more industrial development, that we get bigger and stronger actors also on the owner side of forestry. I want to ask, what is the logic of that? Where is the idea and the rationale that it is like that? That's the one. The second is, if that's the case, wouldn't it be natural to think that you're more developed and expanded State Forest's work portfolio, like a big forest owner?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1802	One of the things that might separate me from the representative of Storberget is the genuine threat to private ownership. Most of the Norwegian forest is owned by private forest owners, fortunately, for local management, own management of natural resources, is what has developed Norwegian welfare. Whether it has been in forestry, in agriculture, in fisheries, in aquaculture or in the power industry, it is a question of whether local ownership actually affects the use of resources. It is open-minded to provide a basis that strengthens private ownership. On the other hand, I think it's the way – we see so far also numbers of it – that for forest owners where the forest actually means a part of the total value creation, add it to a larger crop. Then the cloud is that the owner structure in many areas is too fragmented. It would have been more profitable logging if he had been more concentrated.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1807	I actually asked questions about the relationship between the size of the owner's side and the possibilities of processing, but I'm going to leave it. If you really want to take action in relation to ownership structure – because I see, also surprisingly, that there are unfortunate conditions in both small and large forest owners – would it not be a more effective tool, rather than always having this debate on concession law and ownership legislation, to put in place a real and quite binding national land change related to forest property? Has the government been into that idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1812	I would have liked to end the discussion about concession law and price control, but I would like to do so in a way that makes it more numerous for the proposals that the government has made in the past and that have now been hearing. Because it would actually have given greater flexibility to forest owners, it would have given greater scope to get a property structure that both in agriculture and in forestry is more in line with how it is actually operated. I hope that we will end that debate with the greatest possible say to those of us who actually want to modernise the law, so that the law and the ownership structure are more related to the actual exploitation of our natural resources. I'm not in the foreground to consider other approaches that are conducive to providing opportunities for a sensible ownership structure in forestry, but I think that one of the most important things we can do now is get through the proposal that has been on the ears.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1818	The Council of State said that he – or the government, the department – has worked systematically on this communication and that some of its main aims are to increase competitiveness. The Communication states that a bottleneck programme will be set up by the government in the national transport plan. The setting says that we agree, but we want it early in the period, precisely with the intention of increasing competitiveness. But I know the Council of State as a powerful man, who wants something, which is as impatient as the undersigned, and we know that it is especially on county roads and municipal roads that the bottleneck is the largest. So the government has some meetings with the KS where you can deal with things. Will the Council of State make use of the possibility, the consultation with the KS, to pick up the bottlenecks on municipal and county roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1823	The answer to that is yes. In addition to that, I think it's time to add that what's one of the main challenges for the overall use of infrastructure is to ensure a tighter connection between the places where we're already using money. When we spend money on improving bottlenecks or the standard on the national road network, and we spend money on forest roads or timber marquees, we all too often end up in a situation where the county or municipal road network is back on the ground. What I think we should look at is a system that helps to ensure that once an investment is triggered by the government, it helps to put pressure on other actors – for example. by saying that if a person makes money to invest in the forest roads in an area, he must also have obligations from the municipality to release the bottlenecks on the road into the national road network, so that we can get this timber out effectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1828	The Council of State has now been sitting a little over a year in the Council of State chair, and he answered ‘yes’ to my question, and added that if you get money, you also have to think completely in that area. But then the question is, has the Council of State already used the year he has been sitting in the Council of State to address the bottleneck programme – these were well-known policies and challenges on the part of the Council of State when he delivered the message – or is it just a ‘yes’ to the questions of the undersigned?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1833	Unfortunately, I have very little seat in the Council of State for the last year – or maybe luckily, too many? I've tried to be out there and look at the challenges people experience in everyday life in Norwegian agriculture and in Norwegian forestry. But this is one of the themes I haven't addressed – so it's a direct answer to the question from the Christian People's Party – among others. because I have spent time recording e.g. the soil protection issue with KS in the past. And it is that even when one is a Council of States, an ability must be a priority, but this is an appropriate response to the wish of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1838	In order to give priority to the Council of State, I would ask him to give priority to the conflicts in the government of which he is a member, and not to the conflicts which may arise when negotiating for a new government after the election. We can do that ourselves. The target of 10 pst. the protection has been a theme before today. The representative Oskar J. Grimstad rejected the idea that it would in any way challenge forestry. Then my question is: does the government also base the goal of 10 pst? protection is practised in a way that will not affect logging of forests where there are potentials for efficient and good forest management?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1845	I can't say that it could affect the possibilities of using productive forests, because when it comes to voluntary protection, individual forest owners can choose to protect productive forests because they actually do. So you'll never get any guarantee from me with the leads Stortinget has put on. The size is very clear in this setting that the 10 pst target is fixed, that it is voluntary protection, and that it applies to both productive and unproductive forests. These are the leaders that the government can hold on to, and that we will follow up in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1850	That's the 10 pst. goal that's my basis for the question. There has been some dispute about the understanding of point 2.7 of the setting. This is a particularly important point for the Left and for me. The uncertainty that Knag County is trying to create here now, I will try to get a clarification from the Minister of Agriculture. Is it the understanding of this point that the Council of State wants to include in the further treatment, or is it the understanding of Knag Fylkesnes?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1855	Without being unfair to the representative of Knag Fylkesnes – he does not have the reply – I believe that in this matter and in this process we should at least pay attention to what is SV's proposal. That would be a disaster for the forest industry. It would actually contribute to less logging, it would not contribute to improving the climate accounting for Norwegian forests. We'll be able to do that. I therefore share with the representative Farstad's actual understanding of what the Stortinget now accepts in connection with this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1860	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1865	This is a very big and important matter, and it is therefore very good that a joint committee determines that forest and wood industry is a strategically important industry for Norway, which needs to be further developed through a long-term interaction between industry actors, research institutions, authorities and other strong industries in Norway. I am also pleased that the forest industry itself is so clear that they want to take a key role in the green shift. However, the message suggests that the Solberg government has not taken this enough into account, and we see that the same thing is repeated in this message as in other government messages: they provide good descriptions of both potential and challenges, but are passive in terms of policies, and little concrete in terms of new actions. Fortunately, here in Stortinget we are much clearer about the great potential for value creation that lies in the forest and wood industries. The majority of the Committee also emphasises the need to be concrete in terms of action and makes a number of proposals for further follow-up, as the rapporteur explained in his statement. It is worth noting that all parties in the nutrition committee – with the exception of the Right Party and the Advance Party – consider it important to facilitate industrial development and further processing of the timber rather than sending raw material out of the country. We also call for a more active industrial policy towards the forest industry through a more targeted initiative – among others. the industry must be seen in the context of the instrument. The public must also facilitate infrastructure and new markets for three and a larger targeted investment in the bioeconomy of the instrument. The majority of the Committee also calls on the government to develop strategies for research, development and innovation in the forest and wood industries and a strategy to stimulate demand for green wood-based products. At the same time, we ask the government to ensure a more targeted use of government procurement, so that wood as construction material is more widely used. Due to the large volume of public acquisitions, the public sector is an important customer for Norwegian business and an important market incentive. A Joint Committee also agrees that access to capital is necessary to revitalise the Norwegian forest industry in the future and has pointed to different options. And it is good that the government has finally adjusted the mandate to Investinor, but the demand for returns is a challenge here. The forest is at the heart of the bioeconomy, which many people talk about, and from the Workers' Party's side we follow up words of action and will have a targeted focus on both the green sector and the blue sector, which we have put into practice in our alternative budgets for both 2016 and 2017. It is good that a majority in the Committee agrees on this, but I also note that the Right and the Advance Party are not included in the comment that it says: ‘The bioeconomy in general and the wood processing industry in particular are an important part of the answers to what will become the major industries of the future in Norway. [[...]] But this does not happen by itself; it requires an active industrial policy on the part of the state." Yes, we see that there are hardly any new jobs created during this period of government. One of the reasons for this is that they have left the active business policy. Furthermore, the Workers' Party is committed to ensuring a national, but also local, ownership of forest resources and will maintain property law and prioritise instruments that can contribute to it. We note that the proposal that the government has had at the hearing on amendments to the concession law has met with a lot of resistance, and we are therefore excited about the law change the government has announced, and as they will present to the Stortinget. It is now heard that the Council of State has great hopes here. Through the treatment of this Communication, the size has taken important steps to achieve the objectives of this strategically important industry. But then it is necessary for a much more active industrial policy to be pursued in the future than what we now see.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1894	Four years ago, Minister of Industry Trond Giske presented a growth package for Norwegian business. It would make it even more profitable to invest and invest in skills and innovation in Norwegian companies. It would help to continue the strong growth in employment in Norway. In the revised national budget for 2013, he then presented a separate package of 750 million. kr to strengthen the forest and wood industry. He would continue the active industrial policy that had so far ensured that Norway had the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. Then come Meld. St. 39 for 2012–2013, on industrial policy towards 2020, in which concrete challenges, initiatives and strategies within a number of key industries were described, including in the forest and wood industries. SKOG22 was established, largely composed of people from the whole value chain from forest to industry, as well as research and academia. Neutrality in industry was a concept that did not occur in that message, on the contrary. It was targeted, based on the needs of each industry, that was addressed. But it was then, and not now. I attended a well-attended meeting at the Treklängen on Ringerijk just before the 2013 elections. The clear feedback from a global industry was: No matter what happens in the choice, this message will not be withdrawn! Nevertheless, that was what the Right Party and the Advance Party did. Now we've been waiting for almost four years. On several occasions here in Stortinget, I have asked Sjøl where it was of the 750 red-green forest and three million, without a response – not of the former Minister of Agriculture of the Progress Party, not of the Minister of Economic Affairs of Höre. We're still waiting for the industry message. The forest report has finally come, but to a rather lukewarm reception from the industry – good descriptions, but little concrete on action. That job had to be done, with many important suggestions and comments, in part without the support of the Right and Advance Party. Having witnessed the ever-growing ‘conversion’ and ‘implementation’ of the Prime Minister, Minister of Labour, Minister of Industry, Minister of Transport, Minister of Agriculture, and the entire Government since the 2013 elections, I am greatly surprised that the Right and Advance Party are today going to vote against the development of a strategy in 2017 to stimulate demand for green, wood-based products and to ensure that wood as building material is more widely used in public procurement. At least as surprised I am that they do not agree that renewable AS, once they have established it, must be able to enter established companies that will raise new projects. Nor do they participate in the majority opinion of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the SV on a return claim that at least does not exceed the requirement for purely financial placements. Here we talk about future industrial workplaces – change, as it is also called. Nor do they agree with us that Renewable AS will contribute to the development of jobs using Norwegian natural resources. As a Busherud representative, it amazes me even more. Buskerud is one of the states that have really noticed the major changes in the forest and wood industry. But Busherud is also a state with great opportunities and with environments that are willing to bet, both on Ringerike, on Hurum and on Modum. At Modum lies an exciting, environmentally conscious enterprise, Splitkon, such as operates with solid wood as construction material. Today the raw materials are being sent out of the country, and massive trees are being recovered again. The company wants to invest in its own production line, but is struggling to provide sufficient funding. For this company, the majority’s proposal is a major step in the right direction, in terms of both funding and provisioning opportunities, but the Right and Advance Party are not involved. It is strange, because in October 2016 the Building Post under the net rule ‘Industrial Plans can set new Norwegian standard’ could tell the following: ‘One of the biggest politicians after another has trodden down the doorstep of Splitkon in the last few weeks. All will help." And there they were listed in turn: First Vice-Chairman of the nutrition committee, Morten Ørsal Johansen, had taken the tour over the county border from Uppland, there were his party traps Jørund Rytman and Morten Wold from Buskerud and Buskerud Right Anders Werp and Jon Hovland, who promised gold and green forests. They now have the chance to live up to their promises to Splitkon. They don't choose to use it. Clearly, there is a long way between life and learning. I have previously noticed that the Right Svein Fleet believes that the Workers' Party does not have any business development business, so I allow myself to send that ball in return.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1914	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1919	So far in the debate, many have underlined the importance of forestry, and it is easy to agree on. The forestry message that came was relatively passive and, as the representative Lise Christoffersen said, was received quite lukewarmly. But it is much better after the Committee's consideration, which is now the basis for the decisions we are about to take here today. As Lise Christoffersen had in mind, forestry is one of the areas where active industrial policy is important, and where business neutrality is least suited. It requires investments that take a long time to recover. We were in a situation a few years ago where we actually planted much less than in the 1930s and 1940s. It would be a great shame if we were to be the generation in Norway that made sure that we picked up and relocated the one-time revenues from the oil sector while not reinvesting in the renewable forest sector. It requires planting, and it requires young forest care, and I am glad that the attacks on the Forest Fund, as we have seen from right-wing governments, have not been followed up now. There is something special about forestry, and it is important to understand when creating a non-nutritional policy. It goes 60 years, maybe, from a plant to a plant in the ground, to one that can pick up the returns, and it requires a slightly different way of thinking than when a day-trading driver or short-term share investments. Therefore, the instruments are important. The climate has become an increasingly strong justification for active forestry. I have listened to the debate and am thinking that I have planted 100 000 seedlings in my time. It's bound a lot of CO2. But I couldn't put a single plant if it wasn't hogged first. Anyone who talks about the forest as important in the climate, but who is against having, for example, forest roads, or contrary to the fact that we're going to use the forest, are really talking to itself. I am surprised when someone says that there are so many kilometres of forest roads in Norway, and that therefore we do not need more. It has a little to say where these forest roads go, and where the resources to be extracted in the future are. We believe that we should actively invest in this too in order to get into an active forest industry. It's a challenge to make good use of the slip. That's exactly why the Workers' Party's commitment to its state budgets is important, that we are investing in bioeconomy, and that it is now said that we are going to have a biofuel deployment plan, so that we can support under Bergene Holm and others who contribute to the development of the next generation of biofuels.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1932	A small greeting from the forest region Trøndelag, where the forest is an important industry and creates great values, significant export incomes and lots of jobs. We have complete value chains and strong competence environments that are leading nationally, from each forest owner to Forest Nutrition Trøndelag, the forum that the government has given as its national clustering and innovation arena. Forestry has an enormous potential for further growth and is important for our green future. The Forest Communication provides a basis for development and increased profitability. For increased value creation from the forest, it is assumed that a greater proportion of the productive forest area can be actively used and operated economically. For some years, the forestry industry experienced a change from being a net exporter of timber to being a net importer. Now we see better signs. Tree layers of 3,642 forest owners have increased the logging of forest by more than 10 pst. from 2013 to 2015. We see an industry that's still on the offensive. The publicly-appointed sample SKOG22 considers it possible to double the turnover of the forest industry to 180 billion. kr. The figure may be discussed, but that the forest industry can become even more important as a food player in the future, there is no doubt about it. The government got praise from the forest industry when the forest news was presented. All forest pronounced: ‘The government understands us and they want to bet on us who have the forest as the basis for value creation. [[...]] The government describes the potential for increased value creation and the challenges that hinder the profitability of forest industries in Norway, as we see them ourselves. They recognise our climate contribution and environmental work in the forest, they give a detailed description of the benefits of active forestry [[...]] Yeah, I guess that's better than that. Forestry brings many concrete measures, such as investments in forest roads, railways, berths, reduced taxes and taxes and improved access to capital. Good forest highways are a prerequisite for profitable operation, and a number of roads have been written down to 60 tonnes of total weight in recent years. A number of bottlenecks have been mapped and repaired. Several upgraded forest roads reduce cropping costs. Together with reduced corporate tax, there is an increased contribution to profitability and safer jobs. Access to capital has also been strengthened by changing the mandate of Investinor. We are moving towards a renewable future, and the forest is a fantastic resource. It can help replace fossil energy with second-generation wood-based biofuels. The integration requirement is increasing in the years to come, stimulating this development. The government strengthens the framework conditions and allows further development and industrialisation of the forest industry. But it is the industry itself that must create the exciting future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1956	Several have been concerned with the importance of the forest in their area. We from Hedmark and Uppland – where I come from – represent 40 pst. of the forest land, so there's a big business in those counties. The main effort for the forest industry is that we build more in three. Anyway, it gives you more of a provision. For the left, we talk a lot about a green shift, and that also means a green industrial effort. When we talk about industry, it's long-term investment. This predictability must be there in order for those who wish to be in this sector to invest. Fortunately, the working party is talking about biodiesel start-ups now. It's not that many years since the tensioned legs under a Norwegian bet on it. It is important that we have a long-term and predictable policy, while at the same time having a strategy that builds up among those players who want to bet. We see that the Swedes have been good. Today, the rescue for many forest owners is that the industry, especially around Karlstad, has invested heavily over a long period of time. There is a lot of timber going through Mjøsbrua to Karlstad today. It keeps the wheels running both in the sawmill industry and for the forest owners. So we're going to remember that domestic unemployment is about 2 pst, so it's not all the world's capacity to take off there. That's why this is also the bet of the long lines. There has been a large-scale improvement in efficiency, including: in the sawmill industry, which means that there may not have been more jobs, but they get much more out of the stick they send in. Here the Swedes have been much better than us for a long time – they get a lot more out of the stock. We've been good at industry at sea and at sea. Now we have a great opportunity to switch to industrial land-based investment and use some of that competence to get more out of stock. Massive-three bet is one of the possibilities we have. Splitkon is one of the really great possibilities, that we can do industrialization of building modules and make better use of wood. But then the forest sector is quite diverse – from many small forest owners to a fragmented industry – considering how we set up the instruments here. The country’s inputs are quite important. If we want a green industry in Norway, we must actually bet on it. And then we have to decide what we want to bet on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1969	I was too ambitious considering what I should say in my first post, so I have to continue a little here. Optimal forestry ensures that the extraction contributes to the strengthening of biodeficiency, maximising CO2 capture and facilitating the uptake of Norwegian forests, reducing the need for fossil inputs. Therefore, we need to pursue a policy to ensure the best possible use of the wood, and all of them at the top are use in construction and furniture. Withdrawals must be followed up with good rejuvenation and re-growth. Take-offs must ensure minimum CO2 leakage from land and soil. This is the reason why we propose the bytes in the option. Furthermore, optimal forestry is part of a much larger and more interlinked bioeconomy, where different industries interact with each other, and where nothing goes into play – at the highest possible value. Just think about the potential of bringing the nutrients into the sea, on land and in the forest closer together, where the waste in one industry is feed or fertiliser in the other, where cross-product can really make the vision of zero emissions and full exploitation of both raw materials and waste! SV's goal is to do this in Norway. A central part of the green shift is to stop being a pure commodity supplier and rather create jobs, not just transporting wooden sticks and round fish out of the country. There are exciting visions, but all of this must of course happen within a resilient framework, without compromise for Norwegian nature. It's not until we've done our job. For us, the railway effort in the internal Austland is an important infrastructure. It brings sea, land and forest together and at the same time creates new connections out of the country. After much doubt, we in SV have also found that we support the expansion in Lier, for the same reason. So to what the Left had a line exchange about, where they absolutely did not get answers from the minister to the question. But also in this context is the devil in the details. We are linked to a bio-diversity convention. There we are connected to the Aichi painting, where we are obliged to 17 pst. protection. Here we can report the so-called MiS figures. But then we have another goal in Norway, which is a little bit different, in 10 pst. the protection of productive forests. MiS configurations should not be included. But what a daunting plurality in the committee has now come into play is that the MiS characters should be able to count for the 10 pst. protection. Thus, an active reduced 10 pst. target has been significantly reduced. That's what I mean Left can't be excited about – I can't believe and understand that it can be Left's policy that one should go free of it. There is also a breach of the bio-accident notification agreement – just as it has been said.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1982	This debate shows that there are many in the United Kingdom who greatly appreciate forestry. That's good. Forestry is an industry that has served the country well, we can establish that. Over hundreds of years, it has contributed to industrial travel, to export incomes and to district work in tens of thousands. What characterises Norwegian forestry when compared with most other countries in the world is that Norwegian forestry is largely private owned. Private individuals, men and women throughout the country, owning Norwegian outlying areas, manage Norwegian forest resources for the most part. These are owners who go out into the woods and spend money and their time planting and investing in an industry that their grandchildren, or perhaps even their great-grandchildren, will reap. It is not for their own profit they rates on this industry. There is a generational perspective to which there is every reason to highlight and give honor. What is it about this industry, which operates with a generation perspective, perhaps the longest time perspective any industry has in this country, which means that we have more forest than ever in this country, and that we have a biodiversity and biological values that have grown, not become less, as a result of active forestry and active ownership? Well, it's been a forest policy based on freedom under responsibility. We give forest owners the freedom to manage their forest properties for the benefit of themselves and their descendants. It brings great social benefits. It is a perspective and a principle that we are going to continue, and I am very pleased that in this debate there is much confirmation. These are administrators of an important national heritage in which they also put a lot of energy and knowledge. It is history written by the Workers' Party when they highlight their own efforts in forest policy during their reign. I don't understand what they're talking about. I just mention the key chord Xynergo – the closure of that project hit at least Buskerud very hard. The board of directors of the Forest Society said when Södra Cell dropped in Tofte: If the authorities had listened to our recommendations, this situation would have been avoided. That was the message to the red-greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e1993	I'm not going to try to extend the debate, but I have to come up with a few words. A forest report and its treatment are closely linked to issues in the Energy and Environment Committee – as the nature diversity communication, but to the greatest extent also the energy communication we adopted last year. Now much has been done to make more use of the forest resources we have, especially in the transport sector. In budgetary terms, we have gone from a sales order of 5 pst. last year to 7 pst. This year, and we have a measure that we're going up to 20 pst. towards 2020, which is a challenge for Norwegian business but also a great opportunity. This will not stop in 2020. It is clear that the biomass we have is a very central part of the transformation we are going to have towards 2030 and beyond – perhaps not in private cars, there is enough zero-emission solution coming, but in the areas of heavy transport, air transport and shipping biofuels are a necessity in the years to come. That's a long-term bet that we have to base. But what's so important when you use more of the residues, is to be a lot neater to use the stock, that's as construction material. There the state has to go to the front to a much greater extent, whether it's State Building or Rome Property. Municipalities should take a much greater responsibility just to be in front of the work of using the wood. I also believe that there should be opening within the planning and building law instead of just dealing with minimum requirements within the TEK system. Municipalities should be able to impose requirements to extend further in this field as well. I think that is absolutely necessary in the years to come. So, of course, that's the potential of replacing fossil materials with green carbon, where we're just at the very beginning of a larger bet. So there is a great potential for Norwegian forestry and it is absolutely necessary that this is done much more in the years to come. But we have to do this while preserving biodiversity in the forest – in what is driving, where more needs to be done, but also having protected areas in the years to come that need to be expanded. It is referred in note form to protection in productive forest, including the MiS areas, and it comes up in 6.5 pst. But I have to say that in ours, when you come to an agreement on a long term goal of 10 pst, that's the 3 pst. with productive forests which have been taken into account in the decision of the Committee on Energy and the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2004	As the rapporteur-in-Office, I would like to thank you for a good debate, a general debate, a debate in which we point forward, and where there is a great deal of consensus, but also something that separates the various parties. I believe that this debate, in addition to the attitude and the big message underlying the debate, shows that the forest industry is a strategically important industry for Norway as we move more and more from black carbon to green carbon. I feel that there are small differences between the parties in how to create values and increase competitiveness. The direction is the same, but there are some small shades. The same applies to CO 2 – using the timber as a good friend of CO 2. Then it is no surprise that the Business Committee has transitions to the policy area of the Energy and Environment Committee in this area. After all, we refer to the big message that was dealt with in our settings, but we also refer to the big message that we now have for treatment, where the description is that 6.5 pst. now protected. So here there's no disagreement, but we're referring to two different texts and different facts. I think the most important thing we can sum up this debate with is that the nutrition committee and an aggregate increase will invest more in forestry, will use it as a valuable resource, will use it in the climate struggle – and will also see the forest for more than just trees, use and harvest. The forest should also be used for recreation and exercise for all of us – including representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2019	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2035	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2045	The proposal we have to deal with is to extend the quotad fishing of king crabs to entire Finnmarks and to introduce a stepping-up model for the activity requirement to ensure that the right to feed active fishermen. The Storting handled the Solberg government's royal crab message in June 2015. The evaluation which concluded that the two-part administration set up in 2008 by the Stoltenberg II government has been particularly successful. This means commercial fishing with participant regulation east of North Cape, or free fishing – so-called desimation fishing. At the Fisheries Directorate's dialogue meeting in September, it was also established that this administration has been successful. It is a good thing that a total accumulation is also determined today to pass on this principle. Most of the discussion during the big banging process in 2015 was just as full if the municipality of Måsø came in under the category of ‘most pest’ and was to participate in the king crab fish, and introducing an activity requirement to ensure that it was the active fishermen who had the biggest disadvantages and thus were to be compensated for having to fish king crabs. It has been mildly said that it is a strange process in this matter: State Secretary Berg declares that in the royal crab fish, it will be opened for fishermen from his entire home country, Finnmark. Not the government, but Mr Bakke-Jensen and Mr Grimstad are making representations in the Stortinget. The Committee shall be responsible for handling the matter and decide on both the hearing and the consultation of the Conseil. But then it turned out that the department had already submitted a new administration on hearing. The Committee therefore decided to wait on the matter. It's a messy management from the government's side. I am therefore pleased that the Committee has nevertheless gathered on a solid plurality for the further administration of royal crabs. The principle that full-time fishermen are the ones with the biggest disadvantages of the king crab is fully settled. Furthermore, more than the fishermen in East Finland are plagued by the royal crab, but the disadvantages are diminishing westwards in Finnmark. But the plurality of the committee, all the unbecoming Right Party and the Progress Party, is determined to hold on by the fact that they with the greatest scourges are those who will have full access to the lucrative quotas. This plurality also states that the king crab now affects traditional fish in Másøy to such an extent that the fishermen here must be characterised as very pesty and thus should have access to the quotad crab fish. For example, Másøy fishermen today are filled with crabs for disinfestation, something that does not allow them to fish normally. On behalf of the Labour Party, I would say that I thought it was a very bad thing that we could not find a broad political compromise on this matter to ensure long-termity and foresight in the fishing industry. This was in many ways a testament to whether the political environment at Stortinget actually thinks that long-term and far-reaching conditions are the most important for the industry, or whether it is something that belongs to home only in celebrations. For the Right Party and the Forward Party, there were pressacts. The positive thing is that all of us other parties are together. The following proposals for decisions have been submitted by the majority: ‘The Government asks the fishermen in Måsøy to have full access to the fish for royal crabs from the quota year 2017 onwards.’ And... ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Storting with a case concerning the consequences of a change in the activity requirement and any extension of access to king-fishing.’; It is a paradox that government parties will also not support the elimination of the consequences of their own suggestions. In other words, the Right Party and the Progress Party will not base their policy on knowledge. One of the things that counts as a big policy is the best way to set a proper income limit, and it's completely without a case-by-case approach and an impact analysis, which would disrupt the image. The rest of the Stortinget doesn't think that the Swedish Government is in possession, and that the policy is to be based on knowledge, and will have the consequences at the forefront of decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2076	Finally, the merger is to be consulted on such matters as these – it has always been clear to the committee. Of the protocols we have seen, it appears that there have not been formal consultations on the submitted. Nevertheless, the Progress Party and the Right propose that the Storing should support it. I'm glad that the majority of the committee here is in favour of a solution which we have been consulting on, simply to extend the commercial fishing to Mashøy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2079	In Finnmark, the fishing industry is very important. Gradually, the royal crab is also managed to become a resource for industrial development and for all-year operations for the fishing industry. Today, commercial fishing is taking place east of North Cape, and west of North Cape, it is disembarkation fishing. The large number of ponds used in decimation fishing has become a major disadvantage for fishermen also in the west, and the crab is causing much damage to the rest of the farm. Allowance fishing for crabs has been and must be part of fishermen who suffered losses in other fisheries due to the presence of crabs. Today, this is more true than previous fishermen in the West, although East fishermen still seem to have the biggest challenges. For the Right, it is important to create a framework and legislation that ensures industrial development and that ensures annual work places. In recent years, positive developments in the fishing industry in eastern Finland have been observed, but unfortunately negative developments have occurred in western Finland. Some of the reasons why we do not see the same joyous developments in the West as in the East may be a lack of raw materials to operate all year round. In addition, we know that investment in new equipment and new boats requires a large amount of equity or mortgage in a boat or allowance. Crab quota fishing has never been meant to be a supplement to other occupations on land, but compensation for the loss caused by the presence of crabs as a fisherman and for the uses that are being destroyed. This means ensuring that this resource benefits the active fishermen. In addition, the Right wants to facilitate increased fishing activity throughout the county, and with the quota growth we have seen in recent years, we believe that there will still be enough crab quota available to active fishermen in the east, even if fishermen living in the west are allowed to apply for a crab quota. Today’s fish disembarkation in the west will still be possible for all fishermen to participate in. On the part of the Liaison Committee, there is no majority in favour of equal treatment of fishermen in Finnmark as of the current date, and there is no majority in favour of ensuring the nutritional basis of active fishermen and increasing fishing activity throughout the county. Nevertheless, we are pleased that the fishermen in Másøy, who are obviously the hardest hit, will be able to come under this scheme as early as this year. We are also pleased that the majority of the Business Committee does not reject our proposal to increase the activity requirement and access for the whole of Finnmark, but that the government is asked to come back with a case that makes the consequences of such a change visible. Therefore, the Right subsidiary wants to vote in favour of the majority voting of the Business Committee. From the Right, we hope that this case will return to Stortinget before the summer, so that there is more, necessary, predictability for both the 2018 season and the years to come. We recognise that there has been little peace around the framework conditions, but since this is a relatively new industry path, time has been spent finding the fairest arrangements and also trying to find schemes that can actually secure jobs and increase business activity in Finnmark, where resources are. Finally, I would like to comment on what was pointed out about the consultation with the Sameting. The Industry Committee has received a letter from the Sametinget that consultations have been held. They have asked the Business Committee to take the matter further and have requested a hearing with the Business Committee. As a member of the Business Committee, I am not aware that neither the chairperson of the Committee nor the case rapporteur has taken the initiative for such meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2094	Would the representative like to take up the proposals of the Right and the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2099	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2104	The representative, Laila Davidsen, has taken up the proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Right and Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2109	Fishing for king crabs has evolved over time, since the first fish were fished 39 years ago, to become an important reintroduction for many fish that have been heavily plagued by crabs in traditional fish, with full nets and loss of use as a result. There has also been a significant increase in the total quota, and we see that from 2015 to 2016 it has been increased from 1 300 to 2 000 tonnes, which provides a good quota basis for extended fishing by proposing to extend the area allocation of the quotad fish for royal crabs. With a background in, inter alia: This was a proposal from Frank Bakke-Jensen and me to extend the access to the area of the quotad fish for open-group royalty crabs. At the same time, however, there is also a concern that the system should benefit active fishermen and promote an activity requirement that supports this. There are several good reasons for the proposal to extend the area access and without calling for a common understanding of the fact that it is those who are the most vulnerable that should have access to this fishing. During the hearing in the autumn of 2016, it became clear that fishermen from West Finland were plagued by crabs, and that there is going to be intensive disinfestation in West Finland at the cost of traditional fishing. And then we find that there's a multiple that wants to figure out the consequences of integrating whole Finnmark into crab fish, while the majority find that they want to integrate the fishers into Måsøy now. The majority also suggests the need for an impact assessment of the activity requirement. But we focus on the realities and, as was also said from the Right, subsidiaryly, when our proposal falls, will vote for I and II. Finally, I would like to mention that the discussion about consulting the Velocity no longer seemed to have the same importance, despite the extension of the area access to Måsøy. The discussion that goes around it is whether it is the Ministry that has taken the initiative or whether it is the Stortinget. This time it was the Stortinge that took the initiative, and it was then actually up to the Stortinge to comply with this right of consultation, which is referred to by several here. It is not the ministry's task in this context, as it was also called by the representative Davidsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2122	The administration of royal crabs has been up in Stortinget on several occasions, which was also discussed by the President-in-Office. By 2015, we discussed a matter on this issue, and Stortinget adopted the legislation we have today. These rules have now worked for a little over a year, and I think it is somewhat hasty for the proposers to propose changes, especially given that it was their own government that proposed and got a majority for today's legislation. I note that this is also the position of several of the hearing bodies that have expressed their opinion in the hearing in connection with the regulation of king-fishing for 2017. Here the Minister for Fisheries proposes the same as the proposals in the proposal for a representative we are now debating. Having said that, as politicians, we must listen to new knowledge. When the situation changes, changes in policies and legislation may also be needed. An example of this is shown in this case: In 2015, the Stortinget voted against the proposal to open up the possibility for fishermen from the municipality of Måsøy to have access to fishing for king crabs. Now a majority of the committee wants to open up to this municipality, because even fishermen here have problems with the king crab. The aim of the administration of the king crab is to prevent dispersal, but also to enable the fishermen affected by the king crab to make use of it through this fishing. We'd probably rather be in addition to this introduced species, but when it's here, and when we know that there are great values in the fishing of this species, it's important to make sure that this very intention of today's administration is met. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposal that Másøy should also be admitted. When it comes to opening up access for the whole of West Finland, we do not see the need for this at present, and believe that it is the principle of the disadvantage of the royal crab that will lie at the root. I would also refer here to the opinion of Finnmark County Councils – those who know the situation well, believe that the proposed changes are not sufficiently illuminated, and stress that the very principle of disadvantage must be based on. The Christian People's Party believes that any changes to the activity requirement can be assessed, but that we need to know more about the consequences of the changes that are being made than we are told in this proposal. We therefore support the proposal that the government should come back with a case concerning the consequences of changes in the activity requirement and any changes in access to king-fishing if new knowledge so requires.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2133	The center party's starting point is that we want to extend the right to participate in king crab fishing. This applies to fishers from Finnmark as a whole. Now, when we don't vote for it, it's about two things that are related, both an extension of who has access to the fish, and a significant increase in the activity requirement, which we think will be a condition for such an extension. Then we don't know what it will mean for fishermen in East Finland to increase the activity requirement, nor should we know what the activity requirement should be for fishermen from the west of Finnmark. In the case of Måsøy, this theme was mentioned in connection with the Royal Cancer Message. The centre party then proposed that Måsøy be included in the who got access to the fish. We didn't get multiples for that, we're happy that all parties join it now. When it comes to the process that has been: let me say that it's hardly an example to follow. There are many, including the Center Party, who have contributed to the fact that this process has been as he has been. But now we're making a decision that's been pronounced, that's why we're expanding to allow fishermen from Måsøy to access it. So it's important to be clear that now it's the department's job to do this, consult Sametinget and come back to Stortinget with one thing. How fast it is possible to get to the ministry to decide. We are ready to deal with this matter when she comes out in full width.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2142	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a steady hand in the work on this position by the Economic and Social Committee. This is not a simple matter, because there are very different views both politically and among fishermen – not least among fishermen – on the quotad fish for king crabs. I even participated in a king crab debate in Honningsvåg before Christmas, where the area access was intensely discussed. I brought with me especially the plagues that the fishermen in the municipality of Másøy have had. I've noticed them in the process we've had in the committee. I want to say that all in all, there is a good solution that it is now becoming the majority for, by giving the fishermen in Másøy full access to the fishing for king crabs from 2017, although I think we should strictly give today's arrangement a little more time. Today's regulation has hardly been settled before we change. I think the Sameting has an important point when they point out that it is important to provide the industry with predictability in management, and that a little more experience with today's regime before any changes are made. It has also been mentioned by others here today. But all in all, I think it's a good solution for it to be a majority for here today. I point out that the majority of the committee points out that fishermen from other parts of Finnmark are also plagued by the royal crab, but that the further west one comes, the less the disadvantage. In this picture, there is reason to point out that areas in Troms are also plagued by royal crabs and that any extension of the area should not necessarily or should be linked to the boundary of the county, as proposed by the proposers. Before any further extension of the participation in the king crab fisheries, it is necessary to investigate the consequences of such an extension. I think there is reason to stress that the Sameting should be consulted on such matters, as a single committee points out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2153	This has been a very special matter, on which the case spokesperson was involved. I don't understand what's wrong with this kind of cowboy treatment of such an important administration. Here's a very unique management model, which I think is very exciting -- the two-part administration model of the king crab -- where one has divided it into where it's going to be commercial fishing, and where one is going to have free fishing, where one is going to try to stop, prevent, the problems of going on. That's quite right, what's being said here: if one opens up this fish even further down the Finnmark coast, we also have to start discussing how far down it will go, and what principle should govern this. The principle of inconvenience has been the guiding principle. If only one is thinking back: the Russians release royal crabs in the Barents Sea in the 1960s, and one began to see the problems in the 1980s, and after the time when the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission set the limit for a western spread limit to 26 degrees east, much has happened. I have followed up on what the Minister for Fisheries has done, and I am pleased that an increase in the quota, because what creates problems here, is that one simply cannot get enough fish. Now the problems start to spread down the coast, and it's not clearly positive. We still know too little about what effect this can have on the ecosystem and on fishing or otherwise, so increasing the quotas and making sure that a person really manages to keep the crab more in check than one has, think I'm a huge challenge. He's got a hard time. And at the very bottom of my county, Troms, one starts to get huge disadvantages – not in the vicinity of the disadvantages that one has in East Finland, but one starts to get huge disadvantages that can be compared to the disadvantages that one has, for example. in the Altafjord. What we've landed on as a committee is a slight change that was a controversial decision not to include Mashøy in this fish last time. A lot has happened since that time. We in SV have a slightly divided layer. We have them in the party that think one should expand the whole fish, we have them in the party that think one should just take Mashøy, and we have them in the party that think one should only have East-Finnmark with – all palettes are represented here. What we have landed on is that we can agree to this change. So essentially, we wouldn't make any major changes to this round, it's a compromise for SV's part. I think it's good to have a little adjustment in this round, so we'll have a bigger and more protective treatment in the next round. What the future of this fishing will be, is something that will probably have to come up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2161	I want to say at least that when it comes to increasing the requirement to participate in this fishing, I think that the way in which a young person has set up this model, which allows him to get into the fish, has shown so many great successes on the Finnmark coast, with so many young fishermen who have managed to get out of it, that should start raising the demand, we start moving away from what is the point. And at least I can signal that already right now that we're very sceptical about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2164	Here are two big-time representatives, the representative Bakke-Jensen and the representative Grimstad, who have promoted a Document 8 proposal to extend the area access to the quotad fishing for king crabs in Finnmark. I have so much respect for the Storting that calling it cowboy-proposals when our top elected representatives are promoting proposals that they obviously believe in, I think are a little strange. The question of giving all vessels in Finnmark an opportunity to fish king crabs in this area has been background to the fact that there has been a lot of water in the sea since 2005. Not least as regards the size of the allowances, not least in terms of price, not least in terms of obtaining a significant income from crab fishing, much has happened since 2005. But then there has also been a new political leadership in the department – if there is someone who has not registered it. I am pleased that the Committee in its position notes that there is a broad political consensus on how we should manage the royal crab. There is a consensus that has lasted over time – and also that management has been a success. We all agree on that. Because it is clear that the principles underlying the administration of royal crabs remain firm, as reported in the Notice. St. 17 for 2014–2015, which was submitted in the spring of 2015. The representative proposal requests that vessels from all over Finnmark be fished with king crabs in the quotad area. I hear more say and am a little skeptical that more and more people are starting to get some challenges – even down to Troms, in fact. It may also be an argument to expand and get more people to catch, drop more vessels. If, in spite of increased quotas and increased activity, this crab has still not been controlled, which is soon walking in the main streets of some areas up in Finnmark, then perhaps something more should have been inserted. As I said – in the last few years, quotas with royal crabs have increased significantly, and a very high price has been achieved, so that the performance is now significantly higher than when the premiums were made in 2015. That should also have been taken into account. Therefore, the undersigned also believes that the participation should have been increased. I notice, of course, that the proposal that has been put on the table, and the vote of the majority of the Trade Committee, in the first instance, is asking for an agreement to give Måsøy access in the quotad area from 2017. Then it was a good thing that I set provisional, temporary quotas with a background in respect of the Storting because I understood it so that in December there was a majority in Stortinget to include the whole of Finnmark. That is why I set temporary quotas. Now, of course, after the decision in Stortinget today, I'm going to set the full allowances for the rest of the year to create predictability, and then take in Måsøy. I believe that the royal crab has an impact on the entire state of Finnmark, and that ships from all over Finnmark should participate. Now, of course, I'm going to work out as quickly as possible and as best I can and I'm going to get a document for Stortinget that gives all the possible data on the table on the consequences of expanding to the whole Finnmark. Then I follow up on the desire to investigate the consequences and, of course, to assess how the activity requirement, increased or changed, will turn out to expand the area, etc. Then I have to say to those who come to the consultations with the Sameting, that it is at least certain that I have followed the necessary procedures there. In fact, I believe that I have also gone beyond what is prescribed in the procedures for consulting with the Sameting. I've had two meetings this year, one was unfortunately cancelled due to some structural changes in the Sametinget. In this case, the Sameting itself has attended a hearing in the Directorate, and they have asked for consultations with the Business Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2179	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2184	The fact that everyone is going into crab fishing may be a great principle – I agree with it – but it broke what so far has been an overarching principle, that those who are the most plagued by the king crab's inception, are also the ones who are going to have the full quota to fish king crabs. Mushrooms are today the most plagued, and they don't have access to royal crab fish today. How does the Council of State explain that the Right Party and the Progress Party are for everyone to enter, but is opposed to the entry of those who are most plagued?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2191	This principle remains firm, but that principle also contains that the longer west one comes, the less plague one should be. It has never been like this that you have excluded everyone from participating in crab fisheries in that way. I'm assuming that's why you're taking in Mashøy, because they're very troubled with royal crabs. And then there are others in West Finland who have the same challenges with regard to crab fishing. It is also said here from the pulpit that today you see that the challenges with the royal crab may be greater than what you assumed at the time when you put this principle, which I actually agree with. But then there are also other things here, as I said in my post: we have increased the quotas considerably, the prices have increased considerably, the performance has improved considerably, and when the performance gets significantly better, you get a better pay compared to the consequences of the royal crab.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2202	I thank you for your answer. But the natural thing would well be a gradation according to how plaguing one was, and not that all in Finnmark would have full access. The Committee, in its opinion, supported the principle of king crab management, underpinning the principle of the most plagiarism. But the committee is also gathering in the view of different grading of the plagues of the royal crab, and that the plagues decrease the longer the west one comes – just as the council also pointed out. The Royal Crab has come to Troms, and the Marine Resource Law states that the fishing resources belong to the Norwegian people in common. The Council of State, the Right and the Advance Party ignore this with the most plagiarism and enter in order for the entire Finnmark to be allowed to enter the crab fishery without any consequences being seen. When an abandoned principle of ‘most plague’, why did it limit it to Finnmark states?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2209	I'm well aware that even fishermen in Trøndelag want to participate in the royal crab fishing, so I've got criticism from there as well. But then I would like to stress that this is a proposal by representatives of big business and is not – as the rapporteur pointed out – a proposal from the undersigned. This is a proposal that has been promoted in Stortinget. It's clear that you like to rate it, but based on – and I repeat – the performance that existed in 2016 versus what you laid down in 2015, and based on the consequences of the principle of the size of the allowances, which is considerably larger now, that's why you can expand to a much greater extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2214	Inflammation and high quota are closely related, and last year's high crab quota was consulted with the researchers, as opposed to the year's high quota, which is so high that researchers recommended a lower number. Can the government say what he's building this year's quota?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2219	The allowances are well justified in respect of the 2017 set. It also shows the results for 2016, and it will also show up in 2017. It is also said from the Chair of Representatives that the problem may be much bigger than what we were actually aware of. That is why I also believe that both the department and the Stortinget have made quite good progress in harvesting and catching royal crabs in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2224	I understand it this way at the Fisheries Minister that if one is a bit troubled in the Altafjord, one should be able to go to South Varanger to fish – that is what is the principle. There's a reason to poke it a little bit. The Minister is very concerned that borders should be broken, by lifting borders in many other areas of fisheries, but this is where the borders should be. There it is that immediately one comes up with something that smells like the Fragment, it should stop. What is the principle of state council building on – that it should stop right in Finnmark and not go down in Troms?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2230	I have not made any suggestions here. It is the Stortinget that has made a proposal. Now I'm going to figure this out with the background of what's going on in the Stortinget today, and then I can also figure out the consequences of going further down, and bring Troms, Nordland – and Trendelag for that part too – and make different models of it. But today, I am following the principle that it is the ones who have the burden to have the catch. Then I'm willing to pull it out and remove the border in Finnmark, because I see that even in West Finland, there are challenges and burdens to it, which say that the quotas have become so high now, the revenue has become so high now, that even in East Finland, you will have enough revenue in relation to the consequences you have of the royal crab. I think we can use some of the earnings up towards letting more people out of West Finland, so that they can also get compensation in relation to the burdens they have. That you have these burdens in Troms to the same extent as in West Finland or in East Finland, I'm a little uncertain about that, but I'd like to explain that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2237	Then I hear the Council of State say that he said that he supports it with all of Finnmark, that is only partially correct. He's actually open to expanding the whole area according to the disadvantage principle that's to be served. We're very concerned that here we have to have a proper review to see how big the problems are around before we start to worry about this. But there's one thing I'm really wondering about. The quotas have been shown to be too low, as the fishermen have said. Here you can find a collaboration between fishermen and researchers. It's kind of the sources, it's the ones that are in this every day. They've seen that there's too low quotas. There is a proposal from the party comrades to the Council of State that one should raise the requirement to participate in this fishing. But at the same time, the Council of State says that we need more people to run this fishing. But if you raise a requirement, you don't get any more people. How do you make this happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2244	It's related to what I think I've said three or four times now. As the representative also points out, allowances have increased significantly. The performance has increased significantly. What you might have to lose on other fish should be compensated for. And when your earnings have grown so high on royal crabs, it's easier to compensate for what you lose on ordinary fishing. That also applies, I believe, in West Finland now. And even though the representative Knag County wants me to have said that, I haven't suggested including Troms, Nordland and Tøndelag. I have not proposed anything in this case. This is a proposal for a representative. I have said that I share the thoughts of those representatives who have promoted this proposal to include West Finland.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2251	When the Secretary of State of the Council goes out and says that he will include Finnmark as a whole, was it said as a private person, or was it said as Secretary of State of the Ministry of Food and Fisheries?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2256	I expect that when the Secretary of State has expressed during a lecture that he shares the idea of including West Finland, the Secretary of State is probably behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2261	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2268	The committee has had a long day, and we're actually a block into the listener we should have started too, so I'm going to be short. I want to discuss it with consultation and the Sameting: it is absolutely right that the Sameting asked that it be the committee that should have this consultation. We discussed this in the committee, whether we could – first of all – do it in the committee, and we found that we could – and secondly – if we were to do it. Then we came to the conclusion that no, we would ask the government to be in charge of the consultation. But this was before the representative Davidsen entered the committee, it was while Bakke-Jensen was a member of the committee, so she's sorry, for she couldn't know it. The committee concluded, as I said, that it was best and most correct that the government stood for this, and I just have to admit that I thought it was done, and I asked for a copy of the protocol. It was when we got the protocol that we realized that the consultation had not been carried out properly, because it is very clear that this had to be seen as a conversation and not as a consultation. That copy has all been received in the committee, so there is no problem for Davidsen to get hold of. But I'm not going to spend any more time talking about snow falling last year. I would just like to ask what a joint committee has now said very clearly about, that future consultations should be held in such cases, and it is important that one should take with him. Then you have to make sure that the formal requirements for a consultation are met, because it was simply done in the Royal Cancer Message of the Solberg Government. It says quite clearly that consultation has been carried out, and we also have to expect that in a new case that comes from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2283	This matter is marked by a happy chaos. Now blue chaos is not new after three years with the Right Party and the Advance Party in government, but chaos is spreading when our blue field is hit. There are a few things that have made my phone boil more than the crab flocks at the bottom of Varangerfjord than this, because the fishermen are mentioned, the fishermen are desperate, and the fishermen have been confused. And it is not so nice when Secretary of State Berg announces a draft representative from the Stortinget at an event in the home state. I said control of the jam! It's especially when the government apparatus alerts initiative from the Storting, and then it's understandable that people get confused. The proposal would be a fundamental violation of one of the main principles of crab management, namely that those who bear the greatest burden – in the form of damaged yarns, in the form of poorer conditions for fishing – will also have the greatest benefit. Then it's no wonder that fishermen have been confused, because they know so very, very well what there is room for in the feathers, and what there is no room for. Crab fishing is now changing ordinary fishing, and it's not just because of the crab itself, you know that the tendons are also taking place. And then it's no wonder that fishermen and people along the fjords are listed. Because there is a question of predictability, there is a question of which signals to send to those interested in investing in the industry and those interested in entering the profession. Then I have to say that it is positive that Mashøy is incorporated. It is in line with something Finnmark SV has worked for. It is good that the committee has managed to gather on it. It is also good that the parties that have previously announced that they support the Secretary of State, the representatives, the government – all because who speaks – have now seen the facts, have listened to the fishermen in the East and turned around. I want to give a great deal of thanks to those parties that have actually seen the serious consequences the proposal would have given. Then I hope that the signals can now be clear and that the blue chaos in the fisheries policy can soon be halted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2294	When there is incorrect information from the pulpit, I find it timely to comment on it. The representative, Hegø, has argued that since the Committee was set up, the Party of Progress and the Right is opposed to the participation of Måsøy in quota fishing, and it was also claimed by the same representative in this Chamber in her reply to the Council of State. So let me make it clear: both the Right Party and the Advance Party are for Mashøy to participate in this fishing. In the original proposal, we wanted the whole of West Finland to participate – of course also Måsøy, which is part of West Finland. To the extent that Heggø in the future will refer to other parties' policies, it would actually be an advantage that it was correct. The protocol the representative Heggø refers to, I have read, and it was probably the one we were allowed to see that the Sametinget wanted a discussion with the nutrition committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2301	First, to the representative of Bergstø, who is concerned that it creates confusion. Yes, and confusion may have been created by politicians, through, among other things. to give the impression of supporting a proposal to include West Finland. Some decisions have also been taken by political parties in Finnmark, which have led to the inclusion of West Finland. As I said in the middle of the main post: When I became aware that there was a majority in the Storting to include West Finland in December, I actually set temporary quotas pending decisions in Stortinget, out of respect for the Storing. So that's the confusion that exists. It is not surprising that two representatives of big business are promoting a proposal for a representative. After 18 years in Stortinget, I do not know how many representatives I have promoted and how many are being promoted, but that is democracy in that way. When it comes to consulting the Sameting: I have been reading procedures and guidelines for consultation with the Sameting. I can't see that I have broken anything or done anything about these procedures, which should be critical. But the representative Hegø is quite right in saying that if this had been a matter I had raised, if it had been a matter I had prepared and promoted for Stortinget, it would of course have been missing if I had not had consultations and got a signature in that respect. This is a proposal from the Stortinget, and I have had discussions – both politically and administratively – with the Sametinget. As regards the issues of both the extension of the area for the capture of king crabs and the activity requirement, the Sameeting has responded to it in the hearing. But I fully agree with the representative Heggø: now it is time to look forward. I'm going to do what is absolutely necessary to make the size of the next session the best possible preparation, in terms of both knowledge and consequences related to both expanding the area to capture and the activity requirement. So I'm assuming that the majority vote will have a majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2312	I must say that the rightmost strangely hollowed out when the Labour Party goes to the pulpit and says that this has been a strange thing – at least when the representative Heggø owes to us who have our proposers, and the discussions in the department. It was a period of several years, and that was when the red-green side concluded that West-Finnmark was going to be there. It meant that the case was delayed, and so she still did as she had done. I also registered that the Central Party took self-criticism in its post here from the pulpit. Then the working party should not be so busy criticising that an unaddressed person, for the address to which the representative Hegø sent it, is just wrong. The blue chaos, to which the representative Bergstø referred, is actually the red-green ones that have contributed. Neither such nor such has it been from our side. When she's talking about blue chaos and fishers who want tough conditions, we can understand that. The world is changing. But it was also the case that fishers from eastern Finland wanted to be welcomed by fishermen from West Finland, so the picture is not as clear as an attempt to give the impression. Now SV has to decide soon. The representative, Knag Fylkesnes, who came out here, said the following: we almost don't get enough king crabs. Well, how do we manage to fish enough king crabs and make sure that the dissipation becomes effective, and that the crab doesn't expand its area? Well, it's about getting more fish, or driving a more intensive fish. That was the background to our proposal to extend the area access. I thought it was also a goal for SV that the blacklist crab, which provides both good payment and good income, should not go further down the coast. As has been referred to here from the pulpit, the problem has become bigger and bigger. There's a discussion about what's the reality: are there fishermen's descriptions of the situation or are they researchers? I record that some people are talking about that we now need knowledge-oriented management, and then it's the researchers that focus on it. But this time it's the fishers that are being stressed, so one is not a good argument when it comes to who should trust in the administration. I have to say that SV's way of arguing in this context is mildly confusing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2326	I must say, it was a rather confusing article from Grimstad. 1: There will be a State Secretary for the State Council here and announces that now an extended area for participation in commercial fishing in the East to Finnmark. 2: It is clarified that this proposal will not come from this State Secretary, it will come from others. We're excited: who did it come from? Is it from that representative, it's from that representative? It's full of confusion at Stortinget. Then you can think about what it's like around the coast. And then it comes out: two representatives have suggested about what the Secretary of State has come with. We wonder: is this government policy? How can it happen that a state secretary suddenly comes and announces that there is going to be a case here, and then she comes through the Storting? So the Council of State comes here today and tells us that this is democracy – this is what it has been: the Council of State sends out the Secretaries of State and announces that there will be cases through the representatives of big business. Then all of a sudden, the Minister of Fisheries himself is going to start to settle – in parallel with this. Afterwards, a consultation with Sametinget will also be initiated, while we have this for treatment – towards Christmas. Find an error in this! One will find many, so the confusion is complete and total. The representative of Grimstad is busy getting this fish. It has never been such in Norwegian fisheries management that it has only our information from researchers who have determined how the administration should be. One has always used people at sea as part of the knowledge acquisition. That's the way it is. There's only one thing to do here. It's increasing the quota when you see that it's just become too much of a king crab. That's the problem -- not that there are too few fishermen. The problem is that it has too low quotas. Just to create even more doubt about Grimstad's intentions: in his proposal it is that one should increase the requirement to be able to participate in this fishing. So it's going to be harder to get into this fish. There shall be a slightly larger number of operators to be involved in this, which shall dominate this fishery. If the point is to get more people to fish king crabs, one has to have low demands, and – not least – the youth can come. What's happening, as the Council of State travels around and proudly tells? What is happening in Norwegian fishing, and especially in East Finland? It's the youth coming in. What's the reason for that? The King crab is a huge reason for that. Leave it!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2349	Just a short line – perhaps – to the representative of Knag County. Democracy is that the highest elected representatives in this country in this Chamber – I repeat, in this Chamber – are promoting proposals. That is the foundation wall of our democracy. So Knag County is trying to make fun of it. A State Secretary does not promote any proposal in this Chamber. I thought Knag County knew that. It is the representatives in this Chamber who are making proposals. If the representative of Knag Fylkesnes thinks it’s bad – yes, that’s a challenge. The fact that a State Secretary signals at a meeting somewhere that there is a proposal in Stortinget on one or the other matter is not relevant – if you are aware that proposals will be made in this Chamber. One can be aware that proposals from SV are being made, one can be aware that proposals from the Workers' Party are being made. What Knag Fylkesnes has problems with is that he does not accept that other representatives in this Chamber are promoting their own proposals, while he can do it himself – that's fine. He started this debate by calling a proposal from representatives in this Chamber for cowboy proposals. It says something about the representative Knag Fylkesnes, and it says something about SV's view of democracy and this house.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2358	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2363	It was a very special post to the right. It is Secretary of State Berg who launched this proposal. That's it. Then came the representatives Grimstad and Bakke-Jensen with their proposal much later. It was the big launch. I was at that meeting. That's what happened. It wasn't the people-elects – who are so concerned about here – who launched this. It was the Secretary of State to the Council of State. Then one doesn't have to be so extremely good in math to put two and two here to understand where this comes from. If that's the kind of democracy you're looking for here, that even the representatives that come in to the Storting should be run by the Council of State, then one is on the wild path. Otherwise, I would like to warmly welcome all the good proposals for representatives to come, especially in the fisheries sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2370	The representative Oskar J. Grimstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2375	The representative Knag Fylkesnes has a sense of reality that is, to put it mildly, strange. He describes a reality based on his own ability to interpret both what is said here and what is far from reality. What are the facts is that we have been actively involved in a debate on extending fishing westwards, and have concluded that it is appropriate to address that debate in Stortinget. So we made a representative proposal and, of course, informed our people in the department that we wanted to make a representative proposal, and that it would be put like this and so, in line with what has been presented. The fact that a State Secretary then referred to it at a meeting, we were fully aware and thought was quite fine. To reverse this issue as Knag Fylkesnes has done in this matter, it is shameless.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2382	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2398	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2407	I believe that, regardless of what governments we have had, we can state that Norway has worked actively to strengthen the implementation of human rights both nationally and internationally – a work that is firmly anchored within the United Nations system, in the European Convention on Human Rights and in several other conventions on human rights. Five central human rights conventions have also been made into Norwegian law by the Law on Human Rights, among which we find the European Convention on Human Rights, the UN Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is also worth clarifying that, unlike a number of other countries, Norway has made central human rights conventions an internal right with precedence over other legislation. This means that Norwegian courts can apply these on an independent basis to specific cases. It is also worth pointing out that central human rights conventions are used as legal sources in the courts in this way – only it underlines the strong protection of human rights in Norway. It is important to note that Norway is already a party to the UN Conventions on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, on the Rights of Children and on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This debate on whether Norway should accede to the three optional protocols on individual complaints, which this communication addresses, may also be opened. There have been two open consultations during the examination of this Communication and the Committee has listened with respect to the comments made by many organisations and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this matter. Both in the notification and through the hearings, arguments were put forward to join the new individual complaints systems, on the grounds that they would further strengthen the legal status of individuals and the implementation of the conventions in Norway. One example is the consideration of the child's best, but also whether this consideration is well taken into account, as reflected in proposal No. 6 from the left. When the majority of the committee does not now promote proposals for Norwegian membership of these three individual complaints schemes, it is because it is associated with considerable uncertainty about the consequences of Norwegian accession. Common to the three new individual complaints schemes is that although the general comments and recommendations of the Convention bodies in the context of the periodic reports of the States give some indication of how they interpret the Conventions, the majority does not believe that it is possible to make a clear view of how they will interpret the conventions in individual complaints. This view is reinforced when the majority is also aware that the Children’s Committee has not yet dealt with a single individual complaint and the other two Convention bodies have dealt with only a few issues. These include: unclear to what extent countries will be granted a discretionary margin for the realisation of economic and social rights. In addition, the majority has stressed that any opinion of the United Nations Committee on breach of obligations could address fundamental political issues that could lead to substantial legislative and budgetary changes. The majority of the Committee therefore endorses the government’s decision not to propose Norwegian membership of the Individual Complaints Scheme to the Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, SV and the Christian People's Party shall submit a proposal asking the Government to re-examine whether Norway should ratify the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child as soon as the Committee has addressed a number of issues which enable its practice to be assessed. Furthermore, the entire Committee is aware that the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is a non-discrimination convention and therefore supports the Government's assessment that the provisions of this Convention are, in principle, better suited to international individual treatment. The majority of the Committee will therefore not, at this stage, endorse the individual complaints procedures for the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Committee has also noted that the Government will continue its efforts to strengthen the implementation of these Conventions nationally and internationally and will stress the importance of giving this work a high priority. Then I assume that representatives from the other parties will argue for their proposals in relation to this vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2424	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2429	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2434	The representative Kåre Simensen then addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2439	Human rights are very well protected in Norway. We have a well-functioning rule of law, democratic institutions, a high standard of living and a well-developed social security network. Norway performs its international human rights obligations in a good way. Several key human rights are included in the Constitution, and central human rights conventions are made into Norwegian law by the Law on Human Rights. Norway is a party to most of the UN’s core conventions on human rights. This applies, inter alia, to: the Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. The two former conventions are incorporated into the Human Rights Act. Norway is also a party to the European Convention on Human Rights. The first 15-year communication on human rights – ‘Facilities for all – human rights as objectives and means of foreign and development policy’ – was promoted by this government in 2014. Five central human rights conventions have been made into Norwegian law by the Law of Human Rights. The provisions of those Conventions shall, in the event of a conflict, prevail before the provisions of other legislation. Thus, contrary to a number of other countries, Norway has made central human rights conventions the priority of national law over other legislation. This means that Norwegian courts can apply these human rights conventions on an independent basis to specific cases. The fact that central human rights conventions can be used as legal sources in courts in this way is part of the strong protection of human rights in Norway. For the time being, there are only a few countries – at the top of 20 – affiliated to the Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. For the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, there are several — approx. 90 countries. For the time being, there is little or no practice from the UN Committees in relation to the individual complaint mechanisms. The Children's Committee has not yet dealt with a single individual complaint. The Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities have dealt with two and eight cases respectively. These include: unclear to what extent countries will have a discretionary margin in the implementation of economic and social rights. A clear premise must be that the Convention bodies place great emphasis on the assessments made by the democratically elected authorities of the countries concerned. It may take time before there is sufficient practice from the Committees to ensure that the basis for a review is sufficient. The government is therefore not promoting proposals for Norwegian membership of the three new individual complaints schemes now. Key considerations to which the government has focused are: the adequacy of the composition, working methods, resources and interpretation methods of the Convention bodies concerned to ensure the proper handling of complaints; whether the provisions of the Conventions are suitable for the international treatment of complaints by individuals on the inclusion of individual complaint mechanisms will result in increased legalisation of policy issues and limit the scope for action of Norwegian authorities, including: the possibility of defining economic and social priorities; Although the general comments and recommendations of the Convention bodies in the context of their periodic reports give some signals on how they interpret the Conventions, it is not a clear picture of how they will interpret the Conventions in individual complaints. This applies to all three new complaints. It is difficult to foresee the consequences of the conclusion of the optional protocols on these complaints to the Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Therefore, Norway should not now join the schemes. At the same time, I would like to stress that the government's efforts to strengthen the implementation of human rights both nationally and internationally are important and supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2477	The progressing party supports the suspension and the recommendation in this big message. It is concluded here that there are too many uncertainties in joining the individual complaint schemes and it is proposed that Norway does not join them now. We are pleased that the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party will also end up doing this. The Progress Party will stress that the protection and promotion of human rights is very important, both in Norway and in other countries. Norway is all an international driver of children’s rights and of compliance with UN conventions relating to children. But we believe that joining the individual complaints mechanisms of the relevant UN conventions is not the way to go. I want to point out four reasons: Firstly, the Conventions are already well protected in Norwegian law, and Norway, as the only Nordic country, has given the Law of Human Rights precedence over other laws in Norway in case of conflict. Important human rights are also included in the Constitution. Secondly, the conclusion of the appeals may result in legalisation of political issues and restrict the scope of action of the Norwegian authorities. This may be the case in issues relating to economic and social priorities and foreign policy decisions. Thirdly, questions may be asked whether the Convention Committees responsible for dealing with these complaints are best suited to it, both in terms of composition, working methods, interpretation methods and resources. The country’s own democratically elected bodies usually have the best basis for assessing such issues. It may also be that UN bodies are not necessarily champions of human rights when we have with Saudi Arabia, which was recently re-elected to sit in the UN Human Rights Council, the main body to strengthen, promote and protect human rights. Fourthly, questions can be asked about whether a connection to these arrangements contributes to a distance between the rulers and the people. Should decisions taken in Norwegian judicial bodies really be subject to a review by a United Nations Committee which is far from Norway, without democratic anchoring and democratic review? The Progress Party believes that Norway does not need to join the Individual Complaints Schemes in order to strengthen human rights. We believe that these can be protected and promoted in other ways, in countries and areas where it is really needed. That is why we will not support the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the SV, where they ask the government to come up with a new investigation into whether Norway should join the individual complaints scheme linked to the Children's Convention when it is more tested.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2494	The UN is very important both as the international debate venue and in the development of international law. That is why I support the UN. At the same time, it is important to find a proper division of tasks and responsibilities between the UN as an international body and the Member States. Not all decisions are as good as those of the United Nations. Important political decisions and legislative decisions should be taken by elected bodies. Jussen has to interpret the law. The legal rules should therefore be as precise as possible. If not, we will open up an unfortunate legalisation of the space for action that should lie with democracy. The issues we have to deal with now, are just traveling such difficult decisions. The question is: is Norway going to join the individual complaints schemes, which are voluntary additions to three conventions to which Norway has acceded for the longest time? The first relates to economic, social and cultural rights. The other one deals with children's dishes. The third convention applies to the rights of people with disabilities. The first two conventions are also incorporated into the human rights laws. This implies that the decisions taken in the event of disagreement are to be taken in other Norwegian legislation, which the representative Brataas has just done well. By giving them priority in this way, Norway has gone international. In Norway, complaints are well developed. For example: If we disagree with administrative decisions, we may complain to the Civil Ombudsman. Infringements against children may be brought against the child care centre. We can also bring complaints before the judicial system, in principle up to the Supreme Court. In addition, we may appeal to the European Court of Human Rights. If we also add individual complaints schemes at a global level, based on the UN Conventions, we bring in another level. Before we do that, we have to answer three key questions. Firstly, are the Convention's decisions so precise that they are suitable for an individual complaint scheme? Secondly, is the composition of the Board of Appeal safe? Thirdly, has the Board of Appeal relied on an interpretation of the Convention that is consistent, so that we know the consequences of a Norwegian accession? If a convention has rather vague statements, they can give a lot of space for discretion. Then it may be more natural that decisions are taken by our national elected bodies. This applies, for example: how to build up the welfare country and give priority between different concerns. We do not want a legalisation that unnecessarily restricts national democracy. Neither the Stoltenberg nor the Solberg government has chosen to recommend Norwegian membership of these three individual complaints schemes. The proposition prepares the reason for that. A large majority in Stortinget believe that the UN Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of Human Beings provides a room of discretion around positive dishes that he does not have the right to an individual complaint scheme. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is in a special position. There are conflicting considerations. Many suggest that it should be reconsidered when we have more experience in the practice of the Convention. As the case-speaker, Kåre Simensen, did well, there is a proposal that the Christian People's Party, SV and the Labour Party ask the government to present to the Stortinget a new assessment when we have gained more experience of how the practice is. I hope the Boards of Appeal will be practised to reinforce the arguments for Norwegian membership. Initially, we from the Christian People's Party are particularly positive to the two final review bodies, but it has to be careful, and we have to know the consequences of joining. We know more about this when we've been able to deal with several things. That's why it's hardly the last time the Storting evaluates these individual complaints.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2530	Report. St. 39 for 2015-2016 gives a good account of the consequences of Norwegian accession to the Optional Protocols on Individual Complaint Schemes to the Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Through the notification, the government recommends that Norway not sign the additional protocols. The central party supports that position and does not want the Storting to contribute to the signing of the optional additional protocols on individual complaints schemes. The background to this is both the uncertainty about the consequences of signing the Additional Protocols and the fact that signing could lead to an increase in the legalisation of Norwegian policies and administration. Norway has been a member of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child since 1991. Norway is also associated with the Protocols to the Convention on Children in Armed Conflict, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography. In 2011, the UN General Assembly adopted a third optional protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on Individual Appeals, which entered into force in 2014. Following a mandate from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in 2013, lawyer Frode Elgesem made an assessment of the benefits and disadvantages of possible Norwegian support for this protocol. The investigation was sent to the hearing in the same year. There is a clear argument both for and against joining the protocols. However, the central party supports the government’s recommendation that Norway does not join these three individual complaint schemes now. We share the government's assessment that there is considerable uncertainty about the consequences of a Norwegian accession. I would also like to point out that the Central Party is very positive to the cooperation within the UN and sees the UN as an important body of which Norway is to be an active part, but one must also consider here the fundamental aspects of the fact that the United Nations as a body can actually review Norwegian administrative and judicial decisions. The notice of cancellation questions the composition, working methods, resources and methods of interpretation of the Convention bodies concerned and asks whether they are appropriate to ensure the proper handling of such complaints. Many of the provisions of the Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Affairs are not suitable for international review procedures. Many of the provisions are vague, they are marked by objectives and give countries a great deal of discretion. How shall a person assess whether he has fulfilled the right to the highest achievable health standard or the right to an adequate standard of living? The Central Party considers that there are good reasons why the type of terms must be decided on the basis of political and legal assessments by each country. The interpretation of that type of rights can have major societal implications. One must also take into account that strengthening the rights of one group may lead to impaired rights for other groups. One also needs to look at what measures are being taken to realise the rights, and we believe that the best way to take those assessments will be popular in individual countries, and that it is based on economic and political assessments in individual countries. At this stage, it is a little unclear how far the Convention bodies will go in reviewing national authorities’ assessments of such issues in dealing with individual complaints. It is also uncertain to what extent the Norwegian courts would put on the point of view of the Convention bodies in complaints against Norway. This kind of uncertainty also suggests that one today does not accede to these additional protocols. I would also like, like other speakers, to stress that Norway does not support the signing of the optional additional protocols today, since Norway does not stand back for other countries in incorporating the central UN conventions into our legal system. There we have gone beyond many other countries, including many of our Nordic neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2549	I have to say that I believe that the whole issue of human rights has had a strange development in this period. In the previous period, the Right was at the forefront of the incorporation of human rights into the Constitution, for example: The working party was a little skeptical. In this period, this has turned around a little bit. At the beginning of the period, we have talked a lot about how important it is to strengthen human rights, and that they are weakened everywhere on the globe, while here, suddenly, party by party, we have begun to argue that it feels that accepting human rights formulations in Norwegian legislation restricts the power of the state. That's the point of human rights. The point of human rights is that the majority should not violate the individual. The point of human rights is to stop the state from perpetrating abuse against the individual. I am proud that when the Left was in the Ministry of Justice, we had the entire Children's Convention incorporated into Norwegian law. That's good. But also in this case there has been a strange performance, because I remember well when Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre stood here, and Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, representative of the Right, and Karin Woldseth, representative of the Advancement Party, ran a hard race against Foreign Minister Støre because he would not ratify this protocol. So here, most of the parties have waved from one position to the other, but in sum, there is a weakening of human rights in this room as well. It's perfectly clear that there's a development in the world that weakens human rights, and it's probably worse in Saudi Arabia than it is in Norway, but we shouldn't be so busy seeing the other people's beam that we don't see the tiles in our seas, anyway. I believe that if a reader reads the recordings of the hearing on this matter, it is clear to the sun. There is hardly any professional environment that supports it that we should not ratify – whether it is Amnesty, who believes that this weakens Norway in terms of human rights, the Children’s Ombudsman, UNICEF, Plan, Save Barna, Press, LNU, NOAS or what it should be. I think maybe we got the best and clearest consultation input from our national institution, the National Institute for Human Rights of the United Kingdom. They clearly point out that if we do not ratify this, then how are we going to be able to beat the table internationally and say that we are going to press other countries to ratify protocols, when the Norwegian Parliament is going on again – this is not the first time, this is the third or fourth time I have been involved in dealing with this matter here – actually says no to ratify the protocol? How, then, should we turn the table to the other countries and say that they should now ratify different protocols in the field of human rights? They also point out that there is excessive concern about the narrowing of national action spaces. Well, it's like this room is terrified that there are some children out there who are actually going to invoke human rights that will then restrict our national power. What's the challenge this is about? The third is that we actually need to reform the UN Conventional Body. We would have had the opportunity to also be able to push, if we had been part of this system. I believe that if you sit down and read all the hearings, or were present at the hearing, as we were in the committee, it is quite clear that there are few arguments other than national power over human rights to do so. It's actually an argument, I accept it, but then at the same time claiming that it's everyone else that weakens human rights, it doesn't hold, because it's actually we who ratify less than what we should have done. It weakens us internationally, and it weakens the rights of children in this country. I think it's incredibly sad that we have to use as many laps in this room, because it's going to go to last, it's going to be a majority for that, but there's a lot of laps we have to go to to get it to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2563	Is the representative going to come forward with the Left's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2568	Yes, all as one!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2573	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2578	Shortly after the setting-up for this matter was released, the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee celebrated its 100th anniversary with a big stake here on the house. One of the invited tenants was first amanuensis in international history, Hanne Hagtvedt Vik, who went through the history of human rights in Norwegian foreign policy. She said that we were one of 14 states in total who designed the European Convention on Human Rights from 1949 to 1950, but she said that Norway was pursuing a braking policy and continuing with it afterwards. We argued first against a convention and were sceptical about the proposals for individual rights of appeal and a court of law. Then we voted in favour of the convention not to dissociate ourselves, gave consent to ratifying, but were some with the government to wait with the voluntary clauses, and so we did not recognise the individual appeal court until 1955, and the court in 1964. So since then, we've gone from being braking to being an important driver in a number of international human rights issues – but not in this case. Concluding will contribute to the strengthening of human rights and provide us with a legitimate basis for putting pressure on other states where the need for supranational individual redress systems is great. It will not least contribute to strengthening the UN Conventional Body, and it is entirely in line with what the government itself writes about the importance of human rights as the goal and means – and the driving role of Norway – in the big message about the work of human rights. To leave it is the opposite of being a driver. If all States had taken Norway’s stand to await the practice of the Convention Body, no UN Conventional Body would have had any practice. Being a driver is necessarily being out early. Without a driver there will be no change. We're not the country in the world that needs the most surveillance of human rights, but when Norway itself is not willing to join that kind of surveillance, it's hard for Norway to have confidence if another state asks to do so. And while we often think about it in everyday life so that we should protect our children even better than ourselves – yes, extra good – it is a fact that in most states, including Norway, children have poorer legal security than adults. This is also important in Norway: a ratification of all the additional protocols mentioned in this message will strengthen the legal position of Norwegian citizens by opening it to independent complaints through such ratification. The specific ratification of the individual complaints regime of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on Persons with Disabilities was supported by all civil society organisations participating in the hearing. Frode Elgesem, formerly mentioned here, who has handled the cases for the U.D., the Children's Office and a number of legal experts have recommended the ratification of the individual complaints scheme to the Convention, even after assessing whether the State's action room would have been limited. A collective independent professional environment and civil society believes that ratification is an important contribution to strengthening the legal position of children and promoting the rights of children internationally. The same collective trade union environment in which anti-arguments are highlighted by the government and the plurality of the committee is strongly exaggerated. Norway is already a party to the Conventions, and the appeal mechanism will not create any new material obligations. The United Nations Committee's statements do not have legal force in Norway, and Norwegian authorities may refuse to follow the statements if one is inconsistent. Norway has already joined four UN conventions on human rights, and we have received very few complaints against Norway. Several of our neighbouring countries have ratified several of the additional protocols without any clear, demonstrable negative impact on the space for action of these states. So this does not constitute a significant weakening of the space for action of national authorities, but it constitutes a strengthening of the legal security of children in Norway and is perhaps a particular contribution to strengthening children's legal security in states where he is much weaker than in our country. I can accept the argument if it's the concern about the bond, as I understand it, but then one could – as SV here has suggested – sort out and propose an independent arrangement in Norway where children can appeal against Norwegian law and the Children's Convention. However, we would prefer to join – and therefore also contribute to the conclusion of a broad international convention. I say as State Councillor Ine Eriksen Soreide said that it is ‘incomprehensible and very regrettable’ that we do not join – that is to say, before she became the Council of State, with the support of all the other bourgeois parties at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2599	The issue discussed in this Communication is whether Norway, in addition to joining the conventions under discussion, should join the optional complaints to the Conventions on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the rights of the child and the rights of people with disabilities. The government's conclusion is that it will not now submit proposals for Norwegian membership of these three individual complaints schemes – this because there is considerable uncertainty about the consequences of such an agreement. It is important to stress that Norway is the only Nordic country that has incorporated some of the UN Conventions on Human Rights with priority over other national legislation. This applies, inter alia, to: the Children’s Convention and the Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. This may also lead to other legislation being interpreted restrictively or set aside, i.e. this has a higher height of step. The connection to these individual complaints schemes will therefore – and I think it is important to note this – have a greater impact on the action rooms of the Norwegian authorities. So I think it's important that we don't talk past each other. There is no doubt that Norway is bound by these conventions, and no one is proposing any amendment or weakening of the conventions. In a situation where we feel that important human rights are under pressure, let's not at least reconstruct differences that are not there, or a situation that does not exist. What we're going to discuss now is whether we're going to ratify these individual complaints now, or whether we're going to wait and see how they evolve. I think it's important to remember that that's what's the question today. There is no specific situation related to this in Norway. Take our neighbouring country Sweden, which we often work closely with in these questions: Like the Norwegian Government, Sweden is waiting to analyse the practice of the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. The Swedish authorities state that, in part, the rights are of a upresis nature, which may make it difficult to determine when faced with a breach of the Convention. And in the case of the Children's Convention, Swedish authorities have also said that accession raises questions that need to be analysed in more detail before taking a final decision. Why do you say that? Well, the Children's Committee has not yet dealt with a single individual complaint, and in Norway, where we have incorporated the Children's Convention with primacy in Norwegian law, this could have consequences. The Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights has dealt with two issues and the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has dealt with eight. So there are a number of specific issues that distinguish these complaints from complaints to which Norway has joined, as well as what I said, that these complaints are very little tried out. The Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child contains several vague and far-reaching economic and social rights, to which several representatives have been subject. An example is the right to the highest achievable health standard. Such targeted rights are basically not suitable for international trials in individual complaints. How they are interpreted can actually have great societal significance. Popularly elected bodies are most likely to assess which measures are appropriate for the realisation of the rights. The individual complaint mechanisms already in force in Norway relate to civil and political rights, and the authorities are primarily obliged to refrain from intervening. Freedom of expression is an example of this. In addition, as regards the Convention on the Rights of the Child, it is difficult to predict how the Child Committee will apply the principle of the child’s best interests. For the time being, it is not dealt with a single matter, as I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2616	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2621	The size is now so lucky that we finally got our own body under the Storting, which is our national human rights institution. They have delivered a very good consultation opinion on this matter, and one of their objections is that this could weaken Norway internationally. Norway supports human rights, and they have been important to the current Minister for Foreign Affairs, and one of the first things that this government did was to provide a notification of just human rights. But as our institution points out, our job for human rights and the power of the example will be weakened when we cannot exert the political pressure that is needed, by not ratifying it. Is there anything that also concerns the Minister for Foreign Affairs? Shouldn't it be?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2628	I think that both in the message and in my post is argued why it is not right to ratify these individual complaints now. Ratifying an individual complaint scheme when the committee has not even dealt with a single case and we have already given in Norway, for example. The Convention on the Rights of the Child in Norway was a priority in the Norwegian judicial system, so that it could potentially also increase its scope in Norway, which we need to think thoroughly through. This does not apply only to Norway. Take our neighbouring country Sweden, which is also not prepared to ratify this individual complaint system now. They have not even given priority to the Convention on the Rights of the Child in their legal system. It is important that we now do not talk Norway down in a situation where there are real balances related to this. But the Children's Convention is incorporated into Norwegian law. We know, for example. that in Norway there are more human rights even raised in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2635	I know well that it is incorporated into Norwegian law, because it was the last time the Left and Right government put together that it was fixed. But let me ask the question from a different angle: doesn't the Foreign Minister think it is important that Norway is also a foregone nation in order to be able to raise human rights high in our international work?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2640	Absolutely! That's where we're on the whole line. That is why we have also promoted our own big message on human rights. What we experience in the day, where human rights, including the traditional human rights related to freedom of expression, assembly and freedom of the press, are under great pressure – we have our own interpellation afterwards where we are going to discuss the situation in an allied country, which is worryingly linked to this – is Norway uncompromising. We have to stand up for these important human rights. In the context of these conventions, it is important to recall that Norway provides reports to the United Nations Children’s Committee and other Conventional Bodies on the implementation of human rights in Norway. It is the reporting process that is the most important monitoring mechanism in the United Nations system.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2647	I draw myself in line to say that I believe that neither the previous question nor I have as my starting point to talk down Norway, but to talk up the value of human rights, and perhaps a particular side of them, that it is understandable that a state will retain its political space. It's part of the essence of having a democracy. But the essence of human rights is that one should have them independent of the political plurality of a country, which we are getting these days to prove how important it is. We know the systems of individual complaints from Europe, our own continent, and they have been an important but controversial hub. I thought we should take some time – there has been a little time, under two governments – for this matter. But maybe I can ask the Foreign Minister about the following, because his most important argument is that there have not been many things tried, and that is a real argument: Is he agreeing that it may be valuable in a few years, when it has been trying a lot of things, to make a new assessment, as there is a suggestion here?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2653	What the government has concluded is that we will not recommend ratification of these individual complaints now. That's a point of view that we share, for example. Sweden and a number of other countries. Then you have to come back to this question later whose things should have changed. But there are also fundamental aspects of these individual complaints and legal proceedings that one must also think about, where we have not concluded. That's why we're saying that we're not now going to recommend a ratification. I see that there are arguments in both directions, but I also want to remind you that it was not I who said – and now I am not referring to Mr Solhjell's post – that we are weakening human rights in Norway by not ratifying now. I don't think we do. We just don't make a decision on the basis we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2658	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2674	The interpellation will be taken up by the representative, Mr Vegar Solhjell.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2679	On 4 November 2016, Turkish authorities arrested 11 MEPs from HDP, who are the left-wing party in Turkish politics, among others. known for their fight for the rights of the Kurdish minority. Among them were the two party leaders Selahattin Demirtas and Fig Yuksekdag. The accusations against MEPs are that they support the use of power by the Kurdish Workers' Party (PKK), despite the fact that on several occasions they have taken a great deal of distance from their use of power. HDP has fought an important battle for its Kurds' rights and against Erdogan's attempts to strengthen its own power. They have a struggle for democracy and for a more authoritarian government. Arresting elected politicians is a serious commitment to democracy. If elected representatives cannot do political work without fear of being imprisoned, a functioning democracy is not possible. We in SV have followed this development closely and are deeply concerned, because the arrests of MEPs in HDP are just one example of a rapid and dramatic deterioration in the conditions of freedom of expression, human rights and democracy in the country. It is now time for European leaders to put words into action and put real pressure on Turkey to reverse the authoritarian turnaround. As an ally of Turkey, in both NATO, the OSCE and the Council of Europe, it is important that Norway reacts, and that we do everything in our power to prevent a further deterioration of the situation. It is in the interests of the Turkish people and in the interests of Europe, but also in our own interests. That's the background for today's interpellation, and I look forward to righting the Foreign Minister's answer to our challenge. The conditions for democracy and human rights have been progressively worse over several years in Turkey, but especially since the coup trial in July 2016. In addition to the arrests of HDP leaders, I would like to mention some other serious signs that Turkey is rapidly moving in the wrong direction. Since July 2016, over 40,000 people have been arrested and 120 000 have lost their jobs. In general, these are ordinary people who work in the school system, in health care, as judges or in public administration. Erdogan has two-thirds of the majority in Parliament for extensive constitutional changes that give the President far more power than he has today. The constitutional changes are going to take place in a referendum in ours, and if they are adopted, they are going to give them, among other things. Erdogan's right to dissolve the elected parliament. The state of exemption introduced after the coup trial is still valid and gives the authorities wide powers to carry out arrests without good cause for suspicion. If it is not lifted, the arrest wave we have seen since June may continue. A number of opposition television channels and newspapers have been disconnected, among others. the largest Turkish opposition newspaper has been closed to its offices. I experienced myself during a visit to Ankara with parts of the Foreign Affairs Committee last year how one of the invited guests for a dinner with the Norwegian ambassador did not come because his newspaper was the victim of a raid the same day. Action on the democratic movement that fights for Kurdish dishes is continuing. Several mayors and leading Kurdish local politicians have been arrested without being held accountable for their debts. Last week, three new people from the HDP were arrested: Huda Kaya, Altan Tan and Meral Bestas. Now HDP soon has an equal sized population in prison as in Parliament, and that is an unsustainable situation. It also has for a long time our struggles between Turkish forces and PKK in the Kurdish-dominated South-East Turkey. The contests have been going on since the negotiations with the PKK were broken, and have escalated in the last year. Cities like Cizre and Diyarbakir have our victims for action, and large parts of the population are driven away. In Cizre, the population has fallen from 120,000 to 20,000 in less than two years. Developments in Turkey threaten freedom of expression, democracy and the security of the inhabitants. It is decisive that we do what is in our power to meet these developments – for several reasons. First, assault and human rights violations shall be fought wherever they occur. Secondly, Turkey is an ally – we have an obligation to tell our friends, and we are forced to stand up for the principles on which the alliances we are in are supposed to be built. Thirdly, it is in both European and Norwegian interests to ensure a free, democratic Turkey. If we allow these developments to continue, the security situation can get worse and the country goes from being a country's people to being a country's people's refugees. I hope the Foreign Minister is in agreement with my description of the situation in Turkey. In that case, the question is, what can we do? I have taken with me some very specific ideas that I want to hear about the Foreign Minister can and will follow up. There are some steps Norway can take on its own: we can increase support for civil society organisations working for democratic development and against human rights violations in Turkey. We can give our explicit support to newspapers and television channels that have been suspended by the authorities and that have been an important part of the media gap in Turkey. We can also temporarily stop the arms export to Turkey because there is a real danger that the weapons can be used to suppress their own population. It will be an important and powerful signal. However, the most effective is to seek joint action with our allies. Turkey is a NATO country and is a member of the OSCE and the Council of Europe. All these organizations are based on a community of values where human rights and democracy are central. When these values are broken so fundamentally by a member of the organisation, there should be a basis for different kinds of reactions and sanctions. I'm a strong fan of maintaining dialogue with Turkey, but we also have to be realistic. Erdogan will not be willing to turn to the call from Europe if we are not also clear that we can put power behind the demands. Such a pressure will be a proper step on the road, and such a joint initiative should make clear demands on Erdogan. In the short term, the most important requirements we should make, in my opinion and in the SV's view, are that all the arrested parliamentarians are released and can have works in Parliament which elected parliamentarians must, that the state of emergency, where it has been for a long time, is immediately lifted, that opposition newspapers are reopened, that journalists are released, that the freedom of the press and freedom of expression are taking place in Turkey, that an independent commission is being set up to review human rights violations that have been committed after the coup, that the referendum on the constitutional changes is cancelled as long as there are no real possibilities for the opposition to express itself, that the negotiations with the PPK are taken up again, and that there is a truce in the country. We need international solidarity for Turkey now. Norway and Europe cannot sit and watch an allied country go in such an authoritarian direction. I used to refer to my and other members of the Foreign Affairs Committee's visit to Ankara, Turkey, where we met both authorities, parliamentarians from different parties and a number of media people and organizations. I must say that it made a very strong impression to meet people who so clearly warned against the developments in their own country and asked for European solidarity and support and that they were taken note of the situation in which they were in. As they said – the fact that they have the world and Europe’s eyes on them is an important contribution to legal certainty and security for people who are oppositional or who work in different ways for democracy and human rights in Turkey. Norway may be one of the countries where a contribution is made. I therefore look forward to hearing what plans the Foreign Minister has to follow up the situation in Turkey, and would also ask him to comment on the proposals that I have presented here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2715	The conditions of our NATO ally Turkey are demanding and cause concern these days – for Norway and for the rest of the world society. The situation is complicated and versatile. It requires our attention and our commitment. In the last year, Turkey has experienced attempts at a military coup and thirty terrorist acts. As a result of the coup trial, a state of emergency has been introduced. The authorities in the country believe that the imamen Fethullah Gülen is behind the coup trial and that his movement has infiltrated the Turkish central government. Approximately 100,000 public employees have been suspended. Parliamentarians, journalists and writers are under arrest. At the same time, the constant military strikes between the authorities' security forces and armed Kurdish forces continue. The Kurdish Workers' Party (PKK) and the militant Turkish freedom falcons (TAKs) are behind a series of bloody acts of terror. ISIL is also responsible for brutal actions. The suffering of the civilian population is extensive. At the same time, Turkey has taken on considerable international responsibility in the migration crisis. The flow of refugees into Turkey has been massive. From Syria alone, the country has received 2.8 million refugees. This is more than any other country in the region. The large number of refugees puts great strain on the social, political and economic situation of the country. The situation in Turkey is alarming, as the interpellant also struck. It faces a number of security challenges. At the same time, we must recognise that democracy, legal certainty and freedom of expression seem to come under increasing pressure. Journalists and parliamentarians must defend democracy and freedom of expression in freedom, not in prison. I therefore agree with the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Thorbjørn Jagland, when he says in a chronicle of today's VG that'special journalists and parliamentarians should be released from prison so that they can defend themselves from freedom'. Turkey has the right to combat terrorist activities within its territory and also to place coupmakers in charge, but this must be done within the framework of the rule of law and in accordance with the international obligations of Turkey. Armed action must be proportionate and in line with international law. The government is following developments closely. Good and reprobable information and understanding of the complex picture are necessary. Active diplomacy is crucial. The embassy in Ankara follows the court order carefully after the coup trial. Whenever possible, we are present in the courtroom, as we are, for example. attends the court meeting held in connection with the case against parliamentarians and HDP leader Selahattin Demirtas. In Oslo, the Turkish ambassador was called to speak in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs after the arrests. Diplomatic relations between countries are based on trust and respect. That is a prerequisite for the exchange of views. In our dialogue with the Turkish authorities, the government has always been clear that the principles of the rule of law and freedom of expression must be respected, even in a difficult situation that Turkey is facing. The Government is taking every opportunity to bring human rights up with Turkish authorities. I myself spent three times in Turkey during the last year discussing the various matters with both the President, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The situation is also discussed with the opposition and with organisations working for freedom of expression and legal certainty in Turkey. The government also cooperates with other countries both within and outside the EU in order to establish a global international contribution to make Turkey comply with its international obligations. And it's no secret that when I was in Brussels yesterday and met the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs, Federica Mogherini, and also the European Commission's first Vice President, Frans Timmermans, who is dealing with these matters, we spent a relatively large amount of time in Turkey, but for which there might be some understanding, there was also another matter that was discussed, which I understand is also a certain interest in outside the Chamber right now. Multilateral diplomacy plays an important role in the management of the situation in Turkey – the International Standards Agency is the yardstick. The Venezia Commission has assessed the Turkish state of emergency and concluded that the introduction of the state of emergency was legitimate, but that the measures in place go beyond the Constitution and international law. The Commission will also consider the proposals for the constitutional amendments before the forthcoming referendum. Turkey is a leading member of the Council of Europe, which has a key role in today's Turkey. The Council is an important venue for political dialogue with the country. The situation in Turkey was discussed, among others. of September. The government's emphasis is on meeting Turkey in these contexts. I also attended this meeting in the autumn to target Norway's vision. I thought it was important to be there and pass on our concerns directly to the Council of Europe Ministerial Meeting. An important part of the Council of Europe’s work is the expert dialogue held with Turkey. One of the Council of Europe's main recommendations has been that all persons are entitled to individual testing on their own merits. As late as the last week, there was a positive development at this point. In order to meet the demands of the Council of Europe, Turkey has now amended the rules on detention in the state of emergency. Steps are also taken to establish a Commission which will be able to apply to the persons covered by the Decrees. The large number of things suggest that this will take time. Turkish authorities need to facilitate the rapid and safe handling of these issues. Norway wholeheartedly supports the work of the Council of Europe in Turkey. The Prime Minister stressed this during his official visit to the Council of Europe in November, where Turkey was also a central issue. We are also actively using other multilateral arenas to illustrate the human rights situation in Turkey. This was done before the coup trial last year. I would like to thank the representative for this interpellation, which gives Stortinget the opportunity to discuss the worrying developments in Turkey. In addition to the Council of Europe, the Government of the UN Human Rights Council has expressed concern about the human rights situation in the country. We have noticed that the UN Special Rapporteurs for Freedom of Speech and Torture, respectively, have visited Turkey and made critical comments on the situation. The reports will require follow-up from the Turkish side. It is positive that the visits were made after an invitation from Turkey itself. Norway has also addressed the situation in Turkey in the OSCE Council. In our speeches, we have stressed the demanding working conditions of the media and unfortunately the increasing restrictions on freedom of expression, arrests of judges and others in the judiciary and the need for respect for human rights and other international obligations. It is when the world community and the international mechanisms work together, in dialogue with Turkey, that we see the results – that the country facilitates the restrictions. Norway is a clear and central player in this international cooperation. It is certain that the government maintains a strong search for democracy and human rights in Turkey. At the same time, we respect the challenges facing Turkey and the efforts Turkey is making towards refugees from neighbouring countries. We also have to have a clear but balanced dialogue with Turkey. As the government sees it, it is central to helping Turkey remain a stable and democratic country. That is good for Turkey, and that is good for the region, for Europe and also for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2755	First, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the review, and I am pleased that he shares the concerns I have for the development. I also appreciate the initiatives taken towards Turkey, as well as the personal commitment to which he referred by several examples. It is also true that perhaps no country in Europe has been the tougher frame of terror during the year that went — with a series of brutal attacks of quite different character. And there is no doubt that Turkey has a great responsibility – perhaps the greatest responsibility – in connection with the refugee crisis in Syria. Only in Istanbul can there be as many refugees as in the whole EU area together. It says a little bit about the amount we're talking about. But at the same time, I think we need to see that it is not possible to find a clear connection between – or the reasonableness of – the development here, and the developments when it comes to democracy and human rights that we see in Turkey, both because it has happened over a long period of time, and because there is no clear correlation between them. There is no need to weaken human rights in Turkey in order to take greater responsibility for refugees in the neighbouring country. The second is that Turkey was subjected to attempts at a military coup — a serious and difficult situation for a country — as they are in their full right to strike back, as they did. But once again, as the Foreign Minister said, the measures that have been implemented, in sum and in time some of those now in place, are not reasonable in terms of the attempted coup. That's why I think the time now is in there to at least talk about going beyond concerns messages, because Turkey is a very important country in Europe – important for Europe and an important player in the future Europe. It is a country that has a quite wide democratic and secular tradition from more recent times to take care of, and it is very important to support him. In some cases, a reasonable dialogue about the relationship may take place. In other cases, one must also consider whether there is a thicker tool to be evaluated, as well as a dialogue. I thought that the Foreign Minister’s post should now have been more open at all to discuss this — taking a position on it, considering from the Chair whether there are the types of measures we need to assess with our allies. I had also imagined that he might comment on some of the different suggestions I mentioned here, both the ones we can do with others, and the ones we might do alone. What specific proposals will the Foreign Minister make? And what own proposals/initiatives – in addition to those he has now gone through – is he interested in evaluating Turkey in due course?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2766	We should be very pleased that we have built institutions like the Council of Europe, the OSCE and the UN Human Rights Council. These have set a legal standard, and if you don't comply with the standards that are set, we also have mechanisms that can be used. Both President Erdogan and Foreign Minister Çavu?o?lu have stated that they must comply with the guidelines and rules such as: is valid in the Council of Europe. If they get a judge against them, they'll take it a note. We should remind them of this, and we should also be very careful that this is followed up. Now there are many cases before the court, and there is a sign that there are a lot of people in Turkey who feel that their rights are not respected. As I also said in my post, the Venezia Commission is important here, and they have e.g. assessed the state of emergency and concluded that the introduction of state of emergency following the attempted military coup was legitimate, but that the measures in place go beyond the Constitution and international law. They are now also considering these proposals for changes to the Constitution. There will be important assessments. Then, in my speech, I was concerned about the importance of now following the legal proceedings and the legal proceedings that are, and the Norwegian Embassy is active. We have also politically placed great emphasis on meeting Turkish leaders and passing on our concerns and also on specific issues. I myself have met the opposition and representatives of the Kurdish groups in this Parliament in Turkey. And to the proposal of the representative Solhjell to further escalate what we are doing in Turkey in support of civil society, to human rights defenders and also the free and independent press – at least strengthen the possibilities of having a free and independent press: this is something we are working on, and we will step up that support in the current year compared to last year. I'm open to that kind of input, which we're definitely evaluating now in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2777	I would first like to thank the interpellant for a top-notch interpellation and also thank you for the answers to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and for how clear he was. Turkey is a NATO ally who, both during and after the Cold War, has had close cooperation with Norway. But when allies and friends go in an authoritarian direction, human rights break, prisons parliamentarians and journalists and oppress minorities, then it is time to deal with them – as the EU has done. In the annual status report on the country’s application for membership, the European Commission strongly criticises Turkey and considers that they have gone too far in the settlement following the coup trial. This, in addition to the campaign for the reintroduction of the death penalty, is incompatible with the desire for EU membership, believes the Commission, and also expresses concern at the confusion of Turkish democracy. I can add that there have been many accusations of torture and mistreatment of prisoners after the attempted coup. Freedom of expression is restricted, and it looks like the law is being used very arbitrarily. As elected representatives, there is particular reason to respond to the imprisonment of parliamentarians, that we stand up for the imprisoned parliamentarians. On 4 November last year, the Progressive Alliance, which is now a member of the Labour Party, came with a strong opinion expressing concern at the arrest of parliamentarians and other political leaders. This is particularly pointed to the Progressive Alliance’s sister party, People’s Democratic Party – HDP – in Turkey, which has several imprisoned parliamentarians. The opinion underlines that prisoners are an attack on Turkish democracy led and executed by Erdogan and his government. As was also said by both the inter-pellant and the minister: we see that the Turkish Government has problems with terrorism. There is probably no country in recent times that has had more terrorist attacks than Turkey, most recently in Istanbul. However, terrorism cannot face repression, the elimination of human rights, torture and tendencies towards despotism. State oppression can lead to even more political unrest and instability. I also registered yesterday that Turkey presented threats and warnings against Germany in connection with the application of political asylum by officers who participated in the coup trial in Turkey. We are not going to interfere in this, but I noticed the wording of the Turkish Minister of Defence's statement that the German authorities are absolutely not allowed to accept these asylum applications. So Turkey is hard hit by terror and notices the war in neighboring Syria. They have the right to defend themselves against terrorism, but it must be done with the means of the rule of law. It is in crises that democracy is put to the test. Turkey failed that test. Instead, opposition politicians, torture and repression are arrested and not exempted. Turkey is heading in a worrying, authoritarian direction. President Erdogan extends his powers, tightens his laws and criminalises the opposition. Turkey has always been an important flanking country in NATO. Today, European countries and the EU depend on Turkey to secure the external border of Schengen, and the country, as we heard, has between 2 and 3 million Syrian refugees. This is also a challenge for NATO, not to talk about a challenge for Europe. It is important that the Norwegian Government actively cooperates with other European countries on how to deal with this whole situation, not to say to be enforced. But it has to be said very clearly that what is happening in Turkey now is absolutely unacceptable. I would also like to support the proposals made by Solhjell and the measures he mentioned in the interview.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2798	More than 100,000 public servants are imprisoned, outsourced or under investigation in Turkey following the July coup trial. Among them are teachers, judges, policemen and soldiers. So the situation is far worse than the representative Lightbakken describes in his interpellation. In isolation, this should qualify for a total diplomatic violation of Turkey. The arguments for that are many. But the world is unfortunately not as simple and black-and-white as the representative Lysbakken wants it to, speaking today by the representative Solhjell. Interestingly, you can stand here and highlight the situation in Turkey for demonstrations against our leading partners and allies, Trump, out in the lawn. Diplomacy involves safeguarding the interests of one’s own country – i.e. Norway’s interests – and it has not been given that Norway’s interests are best safeguarded through independent, high-level protests against Turkey. Very few Norwegians applaud the authoritarian development in Turkey, but it is not as obvious what should be Norway’s response. The aim must be to achieve a change in Turkish behaviour. In fact, Norway may be best served with a multilateral approach to development. Over time, Norway has tended to react slightly too quickly and to respond alone to possible human rights violations in different countries and others. That is basically correct and gives us a good conscience, but it is far from certain that it best respects Norway's interests, as the definition of diplomacy implies. Neither is it certain that it takes care of the interests of those we actually want to help. On its own, foreign policy alone rarely leads to the result expressed as an objective. Yes, developments in Turkey are worrying. It has gone in a more authoritarian and Islamic direction, and Norway's relationship with the country is a living paradox. Norway and Turkey are allies through their membership of NATO. Turkey is challenging the alliance concept. Article 5 of the NATO Treaty states that an attack by another country on one of the Member States of the Alliance is an attack on all 29 members. This is a reaction and consistency that happens automatically and without consultation. In other words, we are obliged to stand still with our military capabilities and soldiers if Turkish territory were to be attacked. There is no question about or if – we are obliged by definition. Then, of course, it remains to define what an attack is in reality. It's not always as simple as that. It is in any case a challenge and a paradox that the efforts of the NATO countries against the IS in Iraq and Syria provide support to the Kurdish peshmerga forces in their struggle for greater autonomy. At the same time, Turkey is fighting both the Kurds and the IS, and sometimes one can get the impression that the fight against the Kurds is probably as high a priority as the fight against the IS. Furthermore, Turkey, Russia and Iran may have similar interests in Syria. In such a very unclear political and military picture, it would be unwise for Norway to play a leading role. Sometimes it is wise to recognise the national interests and limitations of our country, not least. In this picture, a national assessment of the role of Turkey as conductor and constable in refugee traffic must also be included. In other words, it becomes too simple, perhaps simply too politically correct to assess the situation in Turkey with national glasses. Nor should Norway ask itself, is the extent to which our country has served to play a central military role in conflicts far beyond NATO’s borders, so-called ‘out of area’. But that's another discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2819	Let me also first thank the representative Solhjell and SV for addressing an important issue, the development of human rights in Turkey. I would also like to thank Mr Burnde for his commitment to this matter. The arrest of the eleven Members of Parliament heightens our concern about developments. This concern has grown ever since the failed coup trial last July. The attempted coup detonates our condemnation. It is not in accordance with a democracy. However, the coup attempt must not be used as a pretext for a long and accelerating development in the authoritarian direction. Nor is it in accordance with a democratic principle. The charges against the eleven members of the parliament of the Pro-Kurdy Party (HDP) are to support the use of force by the Kurdish Workers' Party (PKK). But, as the interpellant Solhjell pointed out, the arrests of parliamentarians have, on several occasions, taken a clear distance from the use of force to the PKK. What they've been busy about are the Kurds' dishes. What they have been critical of is Ergodan's attempt to strengthen his power. These arrests are at the top of the massive mass recovery stations found after the coup. Since July 2016, over 40,000 people have been arrested. About 120,000 have been deprived of their job, and as many people have pointed out, these are the most common people, working in school, in health care, as judges or in public administration. This wave of arrests is exaggerating and gives cause for great concern as to which direction Ergodan will take Turkey. The state of exemption introduced after the coup is still valid. It is the one who gives such unusual powers to the government to carry out arrests without good reason for suspecting anything criminal. It increases our concern. Switching off a series of opposition television channels and newspapers confirms that developments have taken a serious turn. Free media are important in liberal democracy. Once even the largest opposition newspaper in Turkey has closed its offices, it is impossible to right the alarm bells ring. Developments threaten freedom of expression, democracy and legal certainty. These are the foundations of free societies. This threatens to keep us high -- core values of democracy. Therefore, Norway must speak with a clear vote against what is now happening. The prisoners of parliament must be freed. The Mass Organisation stations must be converted. The media must regain freedom, The state of the exception must be lifted. I am pleased that the Foreign Minister confirms that Norway has everything and will continue to address developments with responsible Turkish government powers. But more needs to be done. Turkey is a member of the Council of Europe, of the OSCE and of NATO. There are organisations to defend freedom and democracy, the legal security of individuals and the security of nations – membership requiring Turkey. But it also obliges us to say clearly from when Turkey is on a dangerous trail. It must be followed up in the international forum where Turkey is involved. We who have long wanted Turkey to be shut down in developing its democracy and ensuring its peace, are being filled with sadness at what is now happening. Power should not be misused. Those who have been given power must respect human rights and also respect democratic fundamental principles. Throughout history, we have seen that such a principle is ignored by dictatorship. Turkey cannot become another number in that row.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2858	I also want to start by thanking the interpellant for a good interpellation and thanking the Council of State for the answer. The starting point here is – as for Norway’s foreign policy for a long time – that we are a very small country. We're dependent on others. Using ‘America first’ as the starting point for Norwegian foreign policy, I don’t think I had been carrying it over time. We're probably very dependent on building community with others to achieve the goals we've set ourselves. Then it is really good that the concern for the development of Turkey is so broadly anchored politically in this Chamber. It was a tragedy that the coup trial was conducted, but it had been a wrong development even before the coup attempt came. This is a country that has experienced a lot of terror and cruel terror. Some of it is due to disagreements within the country. The location makes them get it, but they're also a buffer zone for us in Europe. Then I'm back to some of the things that both the interpellant and the Council of State said about NATO as a community of values. When, through our foreign policy, Norway has to build a community with others, it is clear that NATO is not about land, but it is primarily about some values that we share in Western democracies. Then we also have to be willing to fight for each other's values, and then we have to divide those values. I share the concern that almost everyone who has been on the pulpit has expressed, as we now see developments, especially with the calculations that have taken place after the coup. Journalists, judges and not least teachers are at the very heart of democratic construction, with the values that the professions convey: participation, equal rights to law and freedom of expression. It is also important to stress the freedom of parliamentarians and their ability to exercise their political functions. I also think it is important to say that we must be grateful for the amazing job Turkey is doing in accepting refugees. That's what I think it's important to recognise from this pulpit. This has not been easy, nor has it been the relationship with Europe. But we had seen quite other challenges on the European continent if not Turkey had taken the responsibility they take. What has struck me during a visit to Turkey is the way you talk about the refugee group. These are refugees who get quite a lot of social rights as they cross the Turkish border, but they do not meet with the disapprovals with which many other Western democracies may have met refugees. So I think we're going to recognise Turkey for the job that Turkey is doing, but it's important to say that if you're going to be part of the community of values that NATO is, you also have to manage those values. It's important that we push and use all of our meeting points to get progress on the right track. During the last visit of the Foreign Affairs Committee to Turkey, we probably felt the slightly depressing mood that was among many NGOs working with human rights in the country. There is nothing about the signals we received after we left there, which indicates that things are going better. So I'm glad that Norway can help support the NGOs and the important job they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2874	I would also like to thank you for the interpellation. This is a very important matter, which is also very important to me in the work I am doing. I'm sitting in the Council of Europe, I'm one of two reporters for Turkey that's been appointed. I started my work as a reporter in June almost two years ago. I've been a lot in Turkey, both before and after the coup. It's true, as Skei Grande says, there were great challenges before the coup. I've also been to Diyarbakir down south-east. I've talked to everything from ministers to ordinary people, all kinds of organizations, journalists, and it's been incredibly exciting and incredibly difficult. Because even if you get very different feedback, the sum of everything you get is scary. The immunity of parliamentarians was lifted last year. That is why they could arrest the parliamentarians they did. Right now eleven are in prison, and so did they when I was down there two weeks ago. Then, as now, they put the same eleven in prison. They were imprisoned in November last year, for various reasons. There are many journalists and many other people in prison down there who may not really have done anything. We want to visit them in prison to see the conditions under which they live. That was not the reason, because we were actually denied. We're two reporters down there called Marianne Mikko. It's very bad, because we want to be there and see what we can do through the Council of Europe with this. They spent six weeks reviewing their new constitution in the ministry. We were down there while they were doing it. There were intense debates, violent debates, there was a fight in the showroom. It's supposed to be a secret choice, it wasn't. It was pretty hot and hard to be there. But we were very happy that we could be able to experience the difficulties where the opposition really has. Usually the opposition in Turkey is not present in Parliament when it is a majority government. Then they don't have anything they should have said, and they're mostly not present, but of course they're now being treated like this. When they started working on the Constitution, all four parties in Parliament were involved. But the opposition has fallen off along the way. What was presented came now from some of their employees. We were down there two weeks ago, and we're going to make a new report on Turkey. Turkey is in something called post-monitoring, i.e. they are under a weak form of monitoring by the Council of Europe. That's enough to make them go back to a monitoring, which is a much stronger form of monitoring, but they don't. They realized it would come out of our report, and therefore, as the minister said, they lifted something from the arrests and custody. It came because in the Council of Europe at the end of the month we were going to raise this particular issue about whether they should go to post-monitoring monitoring. Now there was no debate in the Chamber, but we have made a strict statement about this. Today I have been in contact with the adviser to the President of Turkey, and that is why I can say that the eleven parliamentarians are still imprisoned. But what is perhaps as bad as the eleven parliamentarians being imprisoned, and we should also be looking at, is that 150 000 have lost their jobs after the coup. I visited the Ombudsman in Turkey, and he told me that 150 000 – policemen, people working at the university and in the health services, judges – have lost their jobs. They are actually non-existent, because they are excluded from the passport and are not allowed to work elsewhere. So there is also something that I would like to ask to be included in the assessment of what we are going to do when it is to be reacted by Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2891	Let me thank you for the debate and not least for the last very good and insightful article here that I had great pleasure and interest in righting. I expect that the Foreign Minister will also note the work done by the Council of Europe there, and that it will be important to support that possibility not least when we have a Norwegian rapporteur to follow it up. So a couple of comments. There's one thing I don't think I'm going to ever slow down with the Storting, and it's that a person always writes his post based on what a believer will be told by someone who's going to hold a speech, and then one doesn't get to do anything about it when the number doesn't turn out to be quite like that. I wonder if that was perhaps what the representative Tybring-Gjedde was hurting to do, because I don't think my posts were particularly black-and-white, and at least I didn't speak for a diplomatic boycott. Nor did I say that we should have unilateral measures in the first place. Rather, on the contrary, I clarified that there were measures in consultation with our alliances, for example. The Council of Europe, which will be the most effective, although there are some things we can do ourselves. But at one point I think there was an important discrepancy. The most governing and important thing about Turkey for Norwegian foreign policy is their role as a gatekeeper, as an important actor, and as one who – we say – has made the management of the refugee crisis easier for Europe – a real role they have played – or whether it is the revolution in democracy and human rights that takes place in Turkey and in a good number of other countries also in the Western world, which is the most central. There I understand the representative Tybring-Gjedde so that he thinks it is the role in connection with the refugee crisis that is most important to Norway. I think I think the most worrying thing that happens in a number of countries now in the Western world is the turning towards more authoritarian governance, the weakening of human rights and democracy because it goes to the core of one of the most important things we as society have built up, and because changes that way get so far-reaching consequences in those countries for the way they work. In this way, I felt that the representative Tybring-Gjede in his speech fought together both what the demonstrations out here are going on, and what we are debating in here, with the very discussion that is going on in the Western world, whether Muslim immigration to Western countries is a greater threat than reducing human rights and weakening our democracy. I mean quite openly that the last one is a far bigger and more dangerous challenge now. Let me round with two things that I specifically brought with me from the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The one thing is that he says he will step up support for the free word, media and independent organizations, and I am very pleased about that. It will be an important work for years now coming in Turkey. The second is that he will place great emphasis on the work of the international organisations of which we are a member, of which Turkey is a member, and that he will address these questions and work with our allies, for example. within the EU – we are not allied directly, we are not a member of the EU – but with our close cooperation partners in the EU. I think that'll be important in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2904	I also very much liked the last wording of the representative, Solhjell, on our close alliance partners in the EU on these issues. As I also mentioned earlier, I feel that the management of the EU, Mogherini and Timmermans agree with us that we should use the multilateral mechanisms and the UN Human Rights Council, but not least both the Council of Europe and the OSCE are crucial here. I also agree that Turkey is particularly concerned, but we see that human rights and values that we may have taken for granted are under pressure not only far away, but also in our own continent. Turkey is one example. I'm going to Poland next week, and the need to address human rights and fundamental issues also on a trip to Poland is actually something new. We also have a lack of convergence in the EU, to say it very diplomatically, about these issues, which I know also concern the EU's management. I also agree that taking a great humanitarian responsibility and accepting refugees, dealing with violent extremism and over 30 terrorist attacks are no excuse for not dealing with human rights and international obligations. What is important to me, however, is that by accepting 2.8 million Syrian refugees and setting up an exemplary approach to them, Turkey has taken a great humanitarian responsibility, and, as the representative of Skei Grande was in it – they deserve credit for it. It is also understandable that when Turkey is subjected to violent extremism and terror, they must take the necessary steps. And with an attempt at a military coup, they have the right to introduce state of emergency, but it's also going to happen within the framework of the state of law, and there the Venice Commission has also pointed out those violations. On the part of the government, we will continue to include human rights in close dialogue with the management of Turkey. We will further step up support for freedom of expression organisations and independent media in Turkey and also be present in legal proceedings to safeguard their interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2915	The debate on substance is closed. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2931	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2948	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e2966	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 6 and 7, by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party and Christian People's Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 to 5, from the Central Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to review the Climate and Environment Ministry’s complaint decision of 20 December 2016, so that the Storting decision of 6 June 2016 is implemented.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government asks the government to make the necessary changes so that Section 18 of the Natural Diversity Act applies in its entirety in the assessment of the issue of hunting a wolf. The size emphasises in particular that criteria (b) and (c) shall be included in the assessment and that the objective is that Decision 769 of the Storting in connection with Innst. [[2015-2016]] 330 S shall be implemented.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government asks the Government to amend the Roofing Game Ordinance § 3 with comments, so that it complies with the Storting decision.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the use of loose dogs during the year’s hunting for wolves.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The budget asks the government of the grazing season to introduce a moulting permit on the wolf in priority grazing areas without prior application. The county must be notified before such hunting is carried out.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e3013	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party, the Right Party, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government will be asked as soon as possible and by 10 March at the latest. i.e., promote a case on how the management of the wolf, including access to the hunting of licences, can be carried out in accordance with the decision of the Stortinge Innst. [[2015-2016]] 330 S
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e3036	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party, the Right Party, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to amend the Code on the management of wild game in order to adapt it to the decision of the Council of Ministers at Innst. [[FOR-2005-03-18-242]] [[2015-2016]] 330 S The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e3053	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for Climate and Environment on the management of the wolf be annexed to the Protocol at the meeting of the Stortingen on 17 January 2017. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e3061	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 6, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 7-9, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 10–13, from Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10–13, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a permanent council in which the forest and wood industry and the authorities can meet to develop the industry together and ensure that the target of 10 pst. the protection of the forest takes place by 2027 as a proportion of the productive forest.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that all remaining coastal rain forests in Norway are protected and that they are cured as a guide to national transport plans.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the following concrete actions in the strategies to be promoted during 2017 to stimulate the demand for green wood-based products and a holistic and strengthened commitment to research, development and innovation in the forest and wood industries: Set targets for the growth of a sustainable forest industry and wood processing industry and targets for the use of wood in the Norwegian construction industry. Increase the competitiveness of wood as a building material through life-cycle analysis requirements in technical regulations in the construction sector and the priority of wood in public buildings and civil engineering. Set targets for the use of wood as construction material in the new government quarter and new NTNU. Includes in the strategy targets and instruments to meet the decision that wood as building material is more widely used in public procurement. Further develop the Norwegian wood processing industry by stimulating specialisation and innovation. Stronger research and product development for the high-tech use of wood raw materials to replace products with high ecological footprints based, for example, on petroleum or large use of agricultural land or fresh water. Develop a programmed commitment to biorefining the different fractions of biological resources in forests. Establish a separate industry strategy with targets for Norwegian industrialisation of sustainable biofuels based on Norwegian forestry, which will produce a significant share of the volume needed to meet the agreed road transport turnover requirements and develop biofuels for maritime and aviation. Insert targets for the phase-in of sustainable biofuels in Norwegian shipping and aviation. Establish carbon capture and storage projects for combined heat and power (CHP) industry based on bioenergy and biocarbon as reducing agent.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure the sustainable use of 90 psts on a truly professional and ecosystem-based basis. of the productive forest in Norway and the protection of the remaining forest in Norway and the protection of the remaining forest in order to preserve the natural diversity of the future. This work shall, inter alia, be carried out and taken into account: Intensify the monitoring of species, vegetation types and ecosystems in Norwegian forests. Increase knowledge of the components of biological resources and their scope through increased bio-prospecting of biological resources from forests. Strengthen the requirements for sustainable forest management and give stronger incentives to forest owners who want to move to a more prudent forest management where environmental concerns are taken into account. Extend the life span of trees by increasing the rotational duration of forestry, with a view to increasing biodiversity and increasing the carbon stock in forests. Establish a programme for the restoration and restoration of natural forests in Norway. Step up the work of monitoring Norwegian forest nature, and contribute to completing an ecological base map for Norway within 10 years. Stop at the top of the remaining areas of old forest in Norway. Stop environmentally harmful subsidies that contribute to the harvesting of old forest or unspoiled intervention. Do not allow planting on new areas, denser planting, plant processing and more fertilisation which may have negative effects on the diversity of nature and on the natural genetic diversity of ‘wild branch’. Basis the target of 10 pst. the protection of the productive forest, that today is 4,2 pst. of the total forested area protected, as stated in the Report. St. 6 [[2016-2017]] Assume that MiS figures, non-productive, non-driving areas may be included in the share reported as the protection in the future of the Biomultiplicity Convention [[Aichi target 11, where the target is 17 pst. protection]] The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e3182	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess the use of wood as construction material in the new government quarter.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e3199	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 9 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to wind up the scheme of subsidies for the fertilisation of forests.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to return to the revised national budget for 2017 with a stepping-up plan that provides a marketing requirement for sustainable biofuels of 20 pst. in 2020, and a further escalation towards 2030.’» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e3223	There is a vote on proposal No. Six, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government no longer requests a 10 pst target to be taken into account. the protection of the forest.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e3240	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to investigate and establish a State Green Carbon Investment Fund.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e3260	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to stop the ongoing sale of state forest.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e3277	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a national timber transport plan for the investments needed to ensure efficient transport by sea, rail and road.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a permanent council in which the forest and wood industry and the authorities can meet to develop the industry together.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a biofuel requirements and sub-requirements plan for advanced biofuels until 2030 in the revised national budget 2017.’; The Greens have announced their support for the proposals. 1 and 3 and subsidiary support for proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e3351	The proposal for III, V and VI shall be put to the vote. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e3365	The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution for II. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e3379	The vote will be taken on the proposal for a IV vote. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e3393	A vote shall be taken on the motions for motions for resolutions I, VII and VIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e3407	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward, the proposals No. 1 and 2, from Lailah Davidsen on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government asks the government to present a step-up model for the activity requirement so that in three years one set the ceiling to NOK 300000. The amendment should be effective from 2017.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to modify the conditions for participation in an open group in the coastal group’s catch of king crabs within the quota area, so that vessels registered in the rest of Finnland can also participate under the same conditions as vessels from East Finland.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e3465	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Kåre Simensen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2–5, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left Party proposal No 6, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to reconsider the question of the conclusion of the child convention complaint and to return to Stortinget with a proposal that includes a broader investigation of the child’s best interests.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e3494	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–5 from the Left and Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a proposal for ratification of the Additional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The Government is asked to submit a proposal for ratification of the Additional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for ratification of the Additional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and to propose the establishment of a national complaint procedure for children. The appeal procedure shall be easily accessible to children and it shall be possible to appeal against both the Norwegian law and the Convention on the Rights of the Child.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e3528	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests a new investigation into whether Norway should ratify the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child as soon as the Committee has dealt with a number of matters which enable its practice to be assessed.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e3559	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e3568	In the case of cases No. 6 and 7 are the second time legal proceedings and relate to Acts 49 and 50. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-31.ana.ud81e3613	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
