ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e62	The representatives of the Torgeir Micaelsen, Jonas Gahr Støre and Sveinung Rotevatern, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The formerly temporarily exempted alternate from the Hedmark County, Lasse Juliusen, has again taken the seat. Five permit applications are available: from the representatives Mette Tønder and Gjermund Hagesetter on leave from 12 June to 21 June, both to participate in the strategic crisis management course at the Defence College from the Workers' Party Group on the Permit of the Representative Sverre Myrli from 12 June to 14 June to take part in a trip with the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to Belgrade by Mr Fredric Holen Bjørdal, on parental leave from 12 June to 16 June, from Mr Bengt Morten Wenstøb on welfare leave for the period from 12 June to 14 June These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e115	From the first alternates of Akershus and Hordaland counties, Are Health and Laila Marie Reiertsen respectively, there are applications for exemptions from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of representatives Sverre Myrli and Gjermund Hagesetter, respectively, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Anne Odenmarck and Thore Vestby For the county of Hordaland: Gunnar Bakke For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Tove-Lise Torve For Eastfold County: Tone Damsleth
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e176	On several occasions, the size has discussed various measures to combat the black economy and unwanted tax adaptation, both nationally and internationally. Norway is well advanced in the field of country-by-country reporting requirements for groups active in the extractive industry and/or forestry activities in non-planted forests. They need to draw up annual reports in order to make payments to governments visible to enterprises’ withdrawals of natural resources. In today’s legislation, which has recently been established, there is a lower amount of money for the occurrence of this obligation. It has been done to reduce the administrative costs of this reporting. The proposers do not want such an amount limit. Furthermore, they want the reporting to appear as notes on the accounts. In its reply from the Minister of Finance to the Financial Committee, there is both a concern about whether this would be a more transparent presentation and a view that such a requirement for notes would trigger more audit work and increased costs. I am pleased that the majority in the vote does not support these proposals. The regulatory framework has recently been implemented, and there is a need for time to work. In addition, an evaluation has been announced this spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e189	I was prepared to hear the comments of the committee chairman, and I wasn't allowed to take the snuff out, so I was just asking for permission to do so before I kept my post. This is a technical proposal. It can be complicated to follow. It is essentially about having as good a prerequisite as possible to ensure a transparent tax system both in Norway and in the countries of the Norwegian company operates in. Work on tax evasion and the black economy has often been in progress during this period. There has been a lot of debate in this period, and it is important, not only to ensure the Norwegian tax system and the trust and stability that characterise our economy and our business life, but also to ensure that we participate and ensure that those standards are applied worldwide. When rich countries such as Norway do not do everything we can to prevent tax evasion, tax evasion, we make it more profitable for those in the world who benefit particularly poor countries in the south, thereby indirectly preventing other countries from being able to build up the kind of welfare society we in Norway are so proud of. A number of revelations in recent years show how crime and corruption have a significant scale and can deeply interfere with the social structure of individual countries. Country-by-country reporting aims at ensuring the transparency of the activities of undertakings involved in the withdrawal of so-called non-renewable resources and to contribute to the transparency of the fiscal positioning of those companies. It's a very important tool, which I'm glad to have put in place a few years ago, but improvements are needed. Then I notice that the Christian People's Party and the Central Party follow the proposal half way. I am, of course, pleased about that, but I have to admit that I have problems understanding how this proposal could lead to increased costs. And there is no concrete reason why this proposal should involve increased costs, in fact, neither in the comments of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party nor in the answer of the Minister of Finance. The only thing that actually involves is to change the country-by-country reporting regulation so that the figures reported in the financial statements are broken down in all the countries included in the group reporting, thus making reporting complete and as transparent as possible. These are the numbers that the companies in question already have. This is an act designed to facilitate full transparency in the tax positioning and disposal of the companies already subject to the legislation. With that in mind, I take up the proposals of the Socialist Left and the Left, and then I announce subsidiary support for the proposals. 1 and 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. I have the gut feeling that this is one of the things that just needs to be promoted a lot of times in the Storing, and then we finally agree, and then it gets the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e206	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e211	It was not my intention to expose the representative Serigstad Valen's snuff practices to the entire assembly – I was actually standing in front of the list, but I bend. With regard to country-by-country reporting, it is an important instrument in the fight against tax evasion, unfair business conduct and various forms of corruption, so our starting point, as we write in the comments together with the Centre Party, is that the Norwegian authorities and Norway as a country should be a driver in order to establish the most effective country-by-country reporting legislation. It is primarily when such legislation is practised internationally that it will have the desired effect. At the same time — and we have spent time in this period of the Financial Committee — it is possible for Norway to have more stringent legislation than international standards, thus setting a good example. On the basis that the Committee agrees that country-by-country reporting is important, for the reasons I have described, it is a question of how far to go. As the representative Serigstad Valen said, there is a little disagreement about how expensive, for example. some of the proposals such as: is taken up by SV, will be for companies, and that is what we are asking through our proposals for an investigation of. But we suggest, as you can see, to estimate costs, benefits and disadvantages, first, by tightening up the wording of the country-by-country reporting regulation that the figures should be taken from the annual accounts and, second, by requiring the main figures in the country-by-country reporting to be included as a note in the financial statements. This includes, among other things: to do with what is to be audited, possibly. We want to clarify this. I am pleased with the subsidized support from SV. I agree that we are taking new steps, and I will not be surprised if a big thing takes further steps in this regard, and goes ahead, as we have also done internationally. With that, I take up the proposals of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e224	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e229	The rapporteur presented the matter well. I just need two brief remarks. One is to thank the representative Serigstad Valen for focusing on two as important issues as black economy and tax evasion through this proposal. Their adverse effects are difficult to quantify, but in any case they are serious and pose a major threat to the income base in many countries. The government is committed to countering the black economy and tax evasion and has worked actively for a long time for effective action, both nationally and internationally. Therefore, even though it is not about the LLR Code, I thought to inform the Storting that on Tuesday on behalf of Norway, I signed a multilateral agreement to implement changes in tax agreements to prevent the eroding of the tax base and profit movements, along with 75 other countries. It was a rather solemn ceremony in Paris, and all the participating countries were very proud to sign and thus contribute to such an important agreement. It is important because it contributes to the rapid and broad implementation of the fiscal agreement measures in the OECD and the G20 BEPS project, and it is an agreement that will make it more difficult to benefit from the non-intended tax agreements. We're also going to follow it up one of the points in the tax settlement. We have actively pursued the follow-up to the actions of the BEPS project, including: with tightening of the exemption method, the introduction of LLR reporting to the tax authorities. Work on the implementation of the tax settlement and other BEPS actions continues, inter alia: in the case of proposals for changes to the interest-rate reduction rules, which are currently being consulted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e238	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e254	As rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the work on this representative's proposal from the representative Rasmus Hansson to increase employment among young people and other low-wage groups by reducing employers' contributions for lower wage groups. While it is a joint committee that agrees with the proposer that unemployment among younger workers is an important issue, we disagree with reducing the employer’s fee for young people and low pay is the right instrument. The Committee believes that adding new objectives to the employer’s fee, by exempting some groups of employees, will help to complicate legislation and increase compliance costs. It could, however, help to reduce the impact of the differential pay scheme. Incentives to attract young workers in the districts could be weakened. In addition, a change in line with the proposal may give enterprises with a higher employer charge an incentive to keep their wage levels down in order to qualify for a reduced employer fee. It is therefore a joint committee that calls for Document 8:75 S for 2016-2017, a representative from the representative of Rasmus Hansson, to increase employment among young people and other low-wage groups by reducing the employer’s fee for lower wage groups, to be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e263	The Labour Party agrees with the proposer that unemployment among younger workers is an important issue, and supports the intention of the proposal, but we disagree that reducing the employer’s pay for young people and low-paid people is the right instrument. The introduction of new purposes into the employer’s levy through an exemption for some groups of employees will help to complicate legislation and increase compliance costs. In addition, it could help to reduce the impact of the system of differentiated employer charges. Experience in Sweden, where the employers’ fee from 2009 was halved for young people under the age of 26, shows that there was a costly and inefficient billion-dollar reform that has not brought more young people into work. The Workers' Party shares the proposaler's concern for the young unemployed and the low-paid. In 2016, the Statistical Central Office measured the lowest proportion of jobs in several decades, and several young people are permanently out of work. The proportion of young people who are not at work is today at the highest level of ten years. Passive periods, especially in youth, increase the risk of long and recurrent periods of unemployment or permanent exclusion from working life. We therefore believe it is necessary to take a force to lift the large groups that are currently outside the labour market, into the ordinary, decent labour market of which we all want to be part. A strong commitment to skills should be the main element in getting more people into the labour market. Qualification for participation in productive Norwegian labour market is essential in order to respect the Norwegian model, which has provided high employment, good adaptability and learning in the labour market. At the same time, measures that temporarily lower the threshold for participation in the labour market can be an important contribution to increased inclusion, without this having to be at the expense of acquired rights or press the wage level downwards for vulnerable occupational groups. The Labour Party promoted a number of proposals to meet this challenge in our 2017 alternative state budget. Among other things, we granted more money to increase the use of wage subsidies. We proposed a budget of 171 million. kr to several ordinary action places and another allocation to several action places for people with disabilities. We also believe that it is important to create more jobs as part of this issue, and suggested in our alternative government budget how we could do this. We refer to our draft budget for action in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e278	Unemployment among young people is a problem that all parties take seriously, and it is a minority who, in this matter, share the environmental party The Greens' concerns and thinking to a large extent. It is among the younger people we find the highest unemployment rate in Norway today, and it is very important that we look at all the relevant instruments to address this problem. That is why the Greens are quite surprised that our proposal to investigate alternative models for reducing employers’ fees is rejected. This is an instrument that we use as a regional policy tool today. We have a long experience of this, and I guess there is a broad consensus that it is an effective tool. That's why there's little discussion about the instrument itself. The question we're asking is, can we expand its use? Therefore, it is a little surprising that the majority refers to the trial in Sweden as an argument against the Greens' proposals, when we should rather draw to our own experiences and analyse how we can draw on them to use this as a measure to get low pay into work with a positive effect. It also refers – from the majority, who do not support our proposal – to the implementation of a number of other positive measures to reduce unemployment. The Green Party will make it clear that we have never said that the reduction of the employer’s fee should be the only instrument we use. What we want is that we go deeper into looking at how that tool can be used. There we agree with the Labour Party, which refers to the need for a more entrepreneurial policy. We have even made a number of proposals in our alternative state budget that would help create new jobs in other ways. We wish, among other things: a much larger investment in the maritime industries and a number of other areas. So here's a lot we can deal with. We also fully agree with the majority when they refer to the benefits of the Nordic model, where a high level of pay contributes to higher productivity. And we support that we need to invest in further education and re-education to help get this group to work. We are in a situation where youth unemployment and low pay are very worrying. We've seen it in other European countries, and it's a problem that crawls inwards with us. We are in a situation where we are at least at risk of an increasing number of jobs being automated, the rationalisation of labour, and that is a situation which can increasingly affect young workers, at least those workers who have lower education. Then we have to make labour cheaper or easier to access for business, in order for it to become more competitive with technology. But we're not going to do that like a lot of other countries have done, by lowering wages. I think there is some broad political consensus on that. So we have to do it by somehow lowering the tax on work. In this situation, there are also counter-conceptions from, for example: SV, who fears that a lower employer’s fee for low pay groups will create a wage cap. We don't think that's right, and we've taken this up in our proposal and we've answered why we think it's wrong, because it would be headless to suggest that the employer's fee should be increased to the full rate at the moment you raise your salary by one dollar from a low wage ceiling. Instead, the Green Party proposes a moving increase in the employer’s fee, from the lowest rate to the full rate groups. In our proposal we have also reflected on the problem of a pay bottle cap, and we believe that we have proposed a good solution to this. So we have proposed an action that has proved effective in countries that have tried it out. The price tag on it is not insignificant, but it is also not deterrent if this is a measure that can actually lead to fewer young people staying out of work. The price tag on our proposal, about 5 billion. kr, is one quarter of what the blue government has granted in tax reliefs, which have not had a documented employment effect. We have to make it cheaper for employers to hire people, and we have to make it cheaper for employers to hold on to employees rather than automate them away. Then the solution is some sort of lower tax on work, and we don't think it's a solution to go into general tax relief, which has no targeted effect. We should like this system to be investigated, and we are therefore promoting our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e303	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e308	There has been no surplus of issues with significant disagreement between the Swedish Environment Party and the Green Party during this period, so this is a healthy exchange. One thing that has also not been so common is a great deal of agreement between SV and the Minister of Finance during this period, but I think that the Minister of Finance puts the main counterpoint to this proposal very well in his letter of reply, which states that the proposal: ‘will give firms in the zones with the highest rates of employers’ contributions strong incentives to keep wages and salaries at a low level, possibly only for younger employees, in order to qualify for a reduced rate of employers’ contributions’. I do not think a moving transition up to a normal employer's fee will solve that problem. Then I think a much better way to go, as I know that the Green Party is proposing in its alternative budget, and as SV is highly proposing in our alternative budget, is to lower the marginal tax on workers in lower pay groups. There SV proposes significantly greater tax cuts than the government of the Minister of Finance and the bourgeois parties do. It's not because we're a tax collector, but because we want to use the tax system to redistribute better and more. Nor can it be fully compared to having a differentiated employer’s fee based on geographical premises by beginning to divide into specific groups of employees or groups of employees. The simple reason is that stimulating a more profitable business in the districts does not have the same negative effects as making it more profitable to have a larger share of the workforce in a lower pay group, for example. That is why I do not think this is a wise proposal. A little for the same reason that I'm skeptical about responding to increased robotization and automation with pay for citizens, I'm skeptical about making arrangements that, at a time of more automation and perhaps more struggle for jobs, break a very long tradition in Norway, where you have made sure that it's just expensive to hire people, so that you know that you have to have competent workers, so that you're served to increase the skills of your own workers, so that you increase the productivity of your economy. I'm skeptical that we should now turn around and start thinking the other way around. However, we fully share the intention of the Greens' proposals and will give tribute to the proposer for promoting them. I suspect this is a debate we're going to have a lot more of at Stortinget in the period that's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e322	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e338	It is good to see that in this room there is a strong commitment for entrepreneurs and businesses and how we can make everyday life easier for those who burn inside with good ideas they want to put into life to create new jobs. That commitment is shown again in the representative proposal from the Left. Some of the points raised in the proposal are now taken care of by the government and the cooperation parties in the revised, such as the tax advantage of pension saving, option taxation and tax incentives in start-up companies. The other proposals in the proposal for a representative have been well explained by the Minister of Finance in his letter to the Committee, and we agree with the views of the Council of State on the proposals. The Committee believes that it is important to continue to make fiscal conditions for business as good as possible, but believes that the most important thing we can and should do is to put in place measures that ensure a good framework for business as a whole. The ageing period is coming to an end, and when we first deal with a business environment issue, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Left and Christian People's Party in particular for the cooperation we have had over four years to ensure an ever better environment for business. While the corporation tax was 28 p.m. in 2013, it is now at 24 pst. and will continue down to 23 pst. Self-employed people pay on average NOK 12 000 less tax in the year 2017 than they did in 2013, there is a record of two consecutive years in the case of company start-ups, and we have presented our own business plan proposing measures that were followed up by hundreds of millions of kroner. No matter where I travel, I always challenge business owners on three steps that we can do to make their business or their industry experience growth and development. Two answers always go back. There is increased investment in infrastructure, and there is a reduction in expenditure, in which case they point specifically to taxes on wealth. In both of these areas, the four cooperation parties have delivered. We've increased the traffic budget by 50 pst. Since 2013, and we have reduced the wealth tax both with increased deductions and at a reduced rate. The government and the cooperation parties have a burning commitment to better framework conditions for both entrepreneurs and the established business community and have implemented a number of good actions during the period we have co-ordinated. This important work will continue even after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e351	Although the Left today is likely to be standing alone to vote for nine proposals that will make the tax system better and fairer for entrepreneurs and individuals, the time from this proposal for representatives has been delivered – a little over two months ago – to this day, our basic good for the self-employed and entrepreneurs in this country. I'm actually going to say that it's been more positive in the last two months for this group than it was in the previous two accumulation periods. As a conclusion to the currently under discussion draft representative, we write: ‘The proposers believe that these are very good and concrete proposals that the government has, hopefully, carefully assessed in the work to be done before the government makes its final recommendations in proposals for the revised national budget for 2017.’ Luckily, this has occurred and has been reinforced by the agreement on the revised national budget concluded. Thus, through decisions to be taken in this room in connection with the revised national budget next week, we are improving the social arrangements for self-employed persons both in relation to tax-advanced pension savings and in relation to sick pay. There is a policy that the Left has been on its own for 12 years, but that is now agreed. By means of decisions to be taken on a weekly basis, we amend the option tax in line with the proposal in the Left's proposal for a representative. The tax incentive scheme for start-up enterprises proposed by the Left for the first time in 2010 is now becoming a reality. This also disproves the Labour Party’s rather pointless – and petty, I would say – remark that the Left’s proposal for a representative must be seen as an expression that the Left has not been successful in negotiations with the Government. I feel the need to clear up a fundamental misunderstanding that opens up several of the parties in the committee. The left's representative's proposal is about the tax system and the unfair one that is there when it relates to founders and individuals. It's not about everything else that can be linked to entrepreneurs and the smallest businesses. Many of the measures proposed by the other parties have just been implemented on the initiative of the Left, for example. the pre-seed fund scheme, the establishment of the premium scheme and the ordinary seed funds. However, the continuation of unused money in Investinor or a regional accelerator programme for entrepreneurs, which, however, is entirely dependent on private capital, will not correct a single bias in the tax system. I'm actually going to say that I'm wondering about the Working Party and the Center Party. They are high and dark attached to a bunch of different representative proposals that they themselves make and require other parties to decide on each single proposal, for example. in the next case, but now the Labour Party does not decide on individual proposals in this case. In principle, as they say, the centre party is in agreement with several proposals, but will not vote on the grounds of the health impression. The health impression is that our tax system has a lot of biases that frame founders and individuals, and like the plural, for what's legal, won't do anything about it. For the last four years, I have met many entrepreneurs, freelancers and self-employed people. They have a lot of heart, but not one of those who wanted to go back to the policy of the Red-Green government. There were eight years of neglecting entrepreneurs and self-employed, and something was done, so the bill was just sent to the self-employed themselves, through an increase in social security contributions, with the result that the tax system was even more disparate than it was – in the business community’s disfavor. The background to the proposal we are now discussing is that individuals, self-employed and entrepreneurs in a number of cases come out worse than ordinary workers and businesses when tax matters are involved. This applies, for example: the minimum deduction scheme, the date of payment of tax, the possibility of substituting parts of the surplus into funds and the possibility of non-taxable continuing training, to mention something. I note that it is argued that introducing a minimum deduction as compensation for actual deductions should lead to more red tape, and equalising the timing of the tax payment with that of the rest of us as debts should lead to some kind of special scheme. This does not hang on to anything. For the Left, it is a self-sustaining goal that more people create a workspace for themselves and perhaps for some more. This would be good for Norwegian innovation and for a diverse and diversified Norwegian business. I would therefore like to include the Left's proposal in the setting and hope that they will be adopted today, even if I have to admit that it looks bad. But what I'm sure of is that many of them will be adopted in the future – at least if today's plurality persists after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e373	The representative of Sveinung Rotevatn has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e391	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e400	There is an overall committee that believes that Norwegian working life is world-class, with high well-being and a good working environment where participation and cooperation are key key factors. Good cooperation between the authorities and the social partners is essential to meet the development and halt the undermining of a decent and good working life within the Norwegian model. The consequences of crime at work may be distortions of competition because competition is not on equal terms. With regard to the proposals in the draft representative, the government is already well-informed to implement most of them. Following dialogue with social partners, the government’s strategy against labour crime was revised and updated recently in February. The working party therefore tries to open doors when the government, in its offensive fight against labour crime, has 25 concrete points in its plan, which are better and more concrete than the Workers' Party's proposals. I am therefore pleased that the Workers' Party will follow the good cooperation of the government with the social partners. The strategy covers tripartite cooperation, the development of sectoral programmes, the assessment of different aspects of hiring out labour, better and coordinated cooperation with all departments, better registers, the reduction of contract levels in public tenders, the simplification of serious enterprises, the targeting of information to foreign workers and the strengthening of the recognition system for clean-up holdings. The government has set up no less than seven co-located centres against labour crime, with good results, and one will continue to do so. A safety register and a craftsman’s portal have been established following proposals promoted by the construction industry. The general public service shall continue as a central instrument against unacceptable pay and working conditions. This also applies to current provisions on joint and several liability. So it almost seems that the Workers' Party is promoting proposals that are identical to the government's work-life crime measures, and they give the impression that it's only the Workers' Party that's concerned about it. I think that is fairly well revealed in this matter. The Labour Party has now come to the defensive of labour policy after party leader Gahr Støre was revealed to offer contracts to his employees who he himself wants to ban to others. Gahr Støre also used a Polish NUF company to paint his house, at a price Norwegian painters claimed was far below the market price in order to offer satisfactory working conditions. I had therefore expected Jonas Gahr Støre, who will be Prime Minister in Norway, to take part in one of the last debates on labour policy during this major period, in order to clean up, not to continue sending other Workers' Party people to defend themselves. Fresh figures show that closer cooperation between the agencies – the police, the tax administration, the Nav and the Labour Inspectorate – and a number of other unannounced supervisors is emerging. Last year, common controls were carried out in 3 200 enterprises — over twice as many as before. 254 criminal networks were revealed, and that means that more people have had to stop working, and more criminals have been sent out of the country. It is also proposed that workers who are not paid the salary they are entitled to receive free legal aid. On 1 January 2017, the new Law on Public Acquisitions began to work and it allows for a maximum of two levels of subcontracting to be required for contracts in the construction and clean-up sectors. Contracting authorities shall, on the initiative of the Government, as a general rule require the use of apprentices. The revised national budget, adopted next week by the Stortinget, reinforces the apprenticeship grant. It happens under this government, in cooperation between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and I think it's for the ninth time in this great period. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is implementing a cooperation project with the KS on better compliance with regulations, proposals for strengthening the authorisation systems for cleaning establishments were sent to the hearing on 10 April, and an enhanced operational cooperation has been facilitated. Last week we opened the seventh co-located centre against labour crime, in Vestfold and Tønsberg, and the results of all of these have been very good. A new registration system is to be introduced for serious undertakings in the construction industry. Work is in progress on the establishment of a national recognition system for foreign vocational training and the provision of information to non-resident workers and employers has been strengthened. New service centres for foreign workers have been established in Bergen and Trondheim. In addition, we already have it in Oslo, Stavanger and Kirkenes. Good cooperation between the authorities and the social partners is essential to meet developments and to stop undermining a decent and good working life within the Norwegian model. The government therefore supports a good and organised working life and believes that the government’s strategy is a good tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e425	In oral question time in this Chamber not long ago, the Prime Minister said it was important that a political not to allow people to take positions other than theirs. Once again, the representative Kambe falls to a level where he gets to say that 3 pst. ownership of a development project in Oslo means that the representative Gahr Støre wants to give employees poor working conditions, it is far from intellectually sound. But if one is to be intellectually honest, it assumes that one is intellectually and fairly. We saw a great lack of that in the President's personal attack on the representative Gahr Støre. But we've come to know that it's a central part of the Right election strategy to engage in personal attacks and spread so-called crap packages. This matter we are going to deal with today has become apparent after the input of employees and employers because from many teams we are constantly getting reports of a very serious situation in the labour market here in the country. Signals are clear: the problem of labour crime, economic crime and social dumping is high and increasing. For this reason, the Labour Party is presenting today 30 proposals for concrete measures for a more serious and organised working life. The fight against the crime of working life must be waged on many fronts. Cooperation across borders is important, so that police, labour supervision, taxation and other public services can work together. We also propose removing barriers to the exchange of information between them. It is important to strengthen the control bodies with both competence and resources to follow up on issues. The social partners are the closest parties to discovering irregularities. In this area, strengthening the level of organisation is a good tool for achieving results. For this reason, the work of increasing the level of organisation is also a work for a more serious working life. This ageing period is in many ways a lost period in the fight against unprofessionalism in the labour market. The National Audit Office's report in this area was a troubling verdict on the government's work in this area. It is also the experience of us who have been engaged in this work throughout this period, and also before that. The Labour Party promotes proposals, the government parties vote them down with the support of the Left and Christian People's Party. But we're not going to give up, until it's too important, because it's not just about people being exploited on the roughest, for example. so-called zero-hour contracts without pay between assignments, it is a matter of serious enterprises being uncompetitive. That is why it is also about recruiting important professions in the future, it is simply about respect for honest work. Government is one of the largest purchasers of construction and other services. For this reason, the public must take the lead and make demands for seriousness. By means of public tenders, we can make demands that favour the serious. Requirements to have own employees, requirements to have apprentices and other serious requirements must be used by the government for acquisitions. Many municipalities have gone ahead and made such demands on suppliers. It's good, but we see, with the government's eagerness to outsource redundancies and follow-up, that some of those who receive them are manning their companies – not with permanent employees, but with sole proprietorships. The Working Environment Act needs to be clarified in some of the areas that are currently being abused. The definition of what is required to be called ‘fixed staff’, the definition of the concept of ‘trusted’ with all its implications in order to make agreements and exemptions from the Working Environment Act, are some examples of what we will do to make it more unprofessional. In the last period, we presented three action plans on social dumping and crime at work. The two parties voted against many of the proposals adopted. The fight against labour crime was a fight against the Right and the Advance Party. On the presentation of the State budget last year, I asked the Council of State question: What new measures have been put into the fight against crime at work? The answer I received from the department was: none. That was the answer from the department. There are many important measures that we can take against the crime of working life. The most important thing we can do is put in again a government that takes the lead and is active in the fight, not just allow itself to run from chance to chance. With this, I address the proposals of the Workers' Party in the setting – either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e450	The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, has thus taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e455	Unlike the previous speakers, I will not go to attack or criticise the intellectual abilities or qualities of other co-representatives. I'm going to go into the matter itself, for the representative proposal we're dealing with now, and the next one, today shows the opposition's poorly hidden attempt to blackmail the situation in the world of work. They are trying to present the situation that is far worse than it actually is, because Norwegian working life is basically working very well. Nine out of ten workers are satisfied with the job, there is a good relationship between the employer and the employee, that is the broad picture of Norwegian working life. But that doesn't mean we're not going to deal with those areas where there are challenges, and that's what I'm going to get into a little bit. Today, there is a broad consensus that we want to work orderly with rights and laws that are being enforced. There is also a broad consensus that most employers and employees are engaged in following the rules. That's why we have virtually few violations of the rules. Many violations are not necessarily due to bad will, but often to complicated or poorly known rules. In addition to the importance of protecting workers and others, it is also important to prevent distortions of competition. If some businesses cut corners and cheats, then law-abiding loses the competition for the jobs and the customers. No one's working on it. This is precisely why it is so important that supervisory activity is put in place where it is needed. Oversight with other authorities, such as the police, provides more and more effective cooperation. Different aspects of the same activity are often identified. There may be workers without a legal stay, violations of health regulations, non-payment of taxes and taxes and much else. I am therefore glad that we are still getting better at stopping and preventing this. At the same time, I am going to give the proposers something right: we must not give in to efforts to get things right for absolutely everyone in the world of work. That is precisely why the Progress Party and the Right, together with our cooperation parties, have placed so much emphasis on the fight against social dumping. We do this by strengthening the Labour Inspectorate and the other supervisory bodies, with measures against unacceptable pay and working conditions, we do so with the seven co-located centres where the police, the tax administration, the Labour Inspectorate and other relevant departments cooperate. Such centres should be established in all police districts. I expect to see a continued positive development in detecting, investigating and getting more cases of work-life crime convictions. But perhaps most importantly, I expect this effort to provide better conditions in the labour market. That's my ambition, and I also know that it's the ambition of the majority in this room. But as I started with, we must not forget that Norwegian working life works well and is probably the best working life in the world. But that doesn't stop us, because we have to continue the efforts the government has made to get those that are unprofessional.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e466	It is absolutely vital that we ensure a safe and healthy working life for everyone. Work is important for individuals, and tidy working conditions are very important for society. The Working Environment Act is and shall be a protection law which guarantees the rights and obligations of workers. Tripartite cooperation is unique for Norway. It's something we have to be proud of and not take for granted, and one has to build on what works, and make changes where needed. We have many good and competent people working to make others feel better at their workplaces, and I want to commend the employee organisations for their important work. During this period, we have done several things together with the cooperation parties to strengthen working life. Among other things, we have set up several work-life crime centres to combat work-life crime, and we have recently strengthened alert protection. It is very good that it is now a separate chapter of the Working Environment Act that is about warning. It shows how important this work is. Appreciative conditions have to be revealed, and I look forward to following this work further. In this case, the Labour Party has made many proposals, and we will vote in favour of some proposals, but not all. Among other things, the Christian People's Party will not vote in favour of the proposal to reintroduce collective redress. Here we do not agree with the Workers' Party, or the LO. Yes, I can understand that the LO wants this, but introducing a right for employee organisations to go to court without the employee wanting it, is fundamentally wrong. Of course, the current legislation allows employee organisations to assist employees who themselves wish to take action. It is good, and it is important to ensure that each worker is helped, but then one must wish it – not against the will of the worker. With regard to the trade union deduction, we will not support this either. When the trade union deduction was last increased, the level of organisation did not increase. Nor does it strengthen the case when we hear from employee organisations that this is not striking and targeted as a measure. Then we have to make sure that other measures are taken to increase the level of organisation. The Christian People's Party will support the proposals to strengthen the competence and supervisory role of the Labour Inspectorate, and we will support proposals to implement the seriousness register with the information described in the report to be simple and serious. We will also support the proposal to introduce registration obligations for work on property, the proposal to extend joint and several liability liability to orders and extend it to six months, and the proposal to ensure a comprehensive review of the legislation that prevents the sharing of information between control posts. We will support proposals to establish labour-criminal centres in all police districts as well as better cooperation between authorities and social partners in order to detect and counteract social dumping and labour-criminalism. The Christian People's Party will therefore support proposals to extend joint and several liability to order and extend responsibility to six months. We will support proposals to ensure that controls and police have the competence and resources to identify victims of trafficking in human beings and crime at work, and to identify illegal workers to see if they are victims of human trafficking before they are sent out. The Christian People's Party will also support proposals to assess whether breach of bankruptcy law should be raised and whether the threshold for the imposition of bankruptcy quarantine should be lowered.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e485	First, I want to thank the Workers' Party for bringing up the theme. It's very commendable, I'd say it's one of the most important issues that we in the Storting and in the election campaign now have to discuss in the future. The representative, Wiborg, gives the impression that the proposal is black-painting, and describes here that it works well, and that everyone is basically doing well. Yes, it's true that everyone is basically doing well, that means over 50 pst. But what everyone working on the case area acknowledges is that it's going from good to bad rather than the opposite. It's also said from the right-hand side here that the impression is that it's getting better now. My assessment is, when I meet people in different groups of professionals around the country, that there is an increasing awareness of how the situation in the workplace, the security of income, is getting weaker. That's what's at the heart of this -- security of income, security to pay for their obligations, security to have the freedom to live a seagoing life. The cooperation we have between the social partners in Norway is essential. I can't get the role of the trade union movement done here by getting a decent and good working life, and the role of the trade union movement and the trade unions and their leaders, in the individual workplaces, to ensure that it is a maritime control. They are constantly monitoring the development of practices in relation to legislation and regulations. What is the main challenge, however, is that when we have free movement of labour across borders, from countries that have completely different and worse pay and working conditions and a high level of unemployment, we will have a very high level of labour force into Norway, and they are willing to work for worse pay and working conditions than what you need here in the country. It also seems that a labour supply and demand imbalance occurs in a number of sectors, and that causes us to change the conditions of power in the disfavor of workers. Therefore, the Centre Party is quite clear that we need to replace the free movement of labour within the EEA area with a controlled movement in the case of workers outside the Nordic region. The Working Environment Act is a protection law. It is a law that must be strengthened, not weakened. What I have now said means that in labour matters, the Central Party has a more radical position in many respects than the Workers' Party. And from a radical point of view, here I believe that we are using the necessary new instruments to ensure the value conservative of having propriety in working life, and to ensure the balance between labour supply and demand. We're very concerned about getting clear definitions of fixed-term employment, temporary employment. We are very concerned about reducing the size of crew companies, because crew companies are the worst security that the employee can have. In terms of temporaryity, however, there is a certain degree of security for a certain income from a certain amount of work over a certain period of time, but it is far worse than what is necessary to have permanent employment. The centre party enters to increase the trade union deduction. We don't commit to double that. We are very concerned about the vitalization of professional policy work, and I would like to stress that the trade unions that act independently from party politics are trade unions that have the strongest support in the Centre Party, because that is why they are primarily loyal to their members. As I said, we are busy getting regular employment into the Working Environment Act. I notice with concern that the NHO is against it, and the reason for that is that it will give many borderline cases and problems. We are committed to reducing the size of rentals and thereby repeal the Working Environment Act § 14-12 [[2]] I'm taking up the proposals of the Center Party that we have alone or with others. Together with what we support in the Labour Party, we support 26 proposals in this vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e504	The representative Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e509	I would like to start by thanking the proposers for promoting the proposal that we are discussing today. It is an initiative that should be praised by the government, because the government in word claims to want a serious and decent working life, but in no way is it able to show it in action. That's why it's almost parochial to hear the posts from the government parties here today, because we see that the government parties have weakened the seriousness. This has been done by eliminating collective redress, which would protect the most vulnerable. This has been done by weakening the position of the elected representatives and by weakening the link with the labour market. That is what happens when you open up a general access to temporary employment. We know, both through research and through experience, that less people get organized and join a trade union. Regular work provides security, but it also provides a link that encourages organisation. It is precisely that people have been united and have wanted and demanded a better working day, which has created the working life that we like to refer to as the ‘best of the world’. Then it is serious that there is a political development that is rather shifting the conditions of power in the labour market, because the trust-chosen are weakened – that one should stand up to his boss more fully and that considerate trust-chosens should be kept away. This is the development that is in line with government policy and with the attack and weakening of – as we have seen – the Working Environment Act during this period of government. It is a comprehensive proposal that we have in front of us, which is supported by the Swedish Government, and which takes the necessary action in the workplace, both to reverse the temporaryity of the work environment law, to reintroduce collective redress law and to ensure the necessary clarifications of the concepts that have otherwise been adopted by the employee or employer, but also to ensure the necessary training on rights both for future generations and for people who come from other countries and jobs in Norway and who do not have knowledge of Norwegian working life, rights and duties. Here we stand with the Center Party, because we believe that it is up to the parties to secure funding and systems for it. But this is also a proposal that takes some legal action. A review and amendment of the rental legislation is needed because we see that hired workers replace permanent workers. It helps to erode employment, and it threatens professionalism and security. We see that in some industries, such as construction, the situation in many regions has become serious. That is why central agreements are needed. It is necessary to strengthen practices by only allowing rentals where there is a nationwide agreement. SV wants a settlement with the commercial crew industry. We want to go beyond today's suggestions. However, we believe that any move in the right direction is good – and important to support under and vote for. In the past, we have promoted several of the proposals under consideration today, including: requirements for permanent employment of apprentices and trade union workers with public contracts to be published. This is because public funds must help to ensure a serious and decent working life – and not undermine the Norwegian model. There is an alarming lack of majority in this case – and it shows the need for the choice of the harvest to ensure the country's workers a new one.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e528	Crime is destructive to society and to individuals, and it also applies to the crime of working life, which is a serious problem both for the workers affected by it and for the serious actors who do not benefit from it. It is clear that where enterprises operate within individual industries and are unprofessional — and one of the criminals — it creates unfair competition that goes beyond everyone and that can thus become ‘a race to the bottom’. The issue raised in this motion for a resolution by the Labour Party is very important, and it is an important debate we have here today. I still didn't think it was important to simplify the image by measuring the working life with too wide a brush in some industry, to put it this way. In many industries, there are very tidy, very tidy, relationships, with responsible employees and employers and with employees who are doing well. But in some industries, it's more challenging. In some industries, developments have gone wrong, and we see that one needs to address some specific challenges. I might particularly like to highlight the construction industry in the last decade, which is an industry where it would be necessary to take action. This is the subject of much of this debate – it is carried out by representatives from the Centre Party and, in part, from SV – with labour immigration and the EEA association. It is an honest debate to discuss Norwegian EEA membership, etc., I am in favour of it, but I also think it is important that one in any case fits to hold his tongue straight in the mouth of such debates and does not give workers the blame for unfair labour relations. On the contrary, where there are immature conditions in working life, the most hard-working immigrants are often, because they like to be resource-impaired, in the sense that they cannot speak well, and do not know the rights and duties of Norwegian society well enough. This allows a legitimate user to be exploited. But that's the bigger reason to take it seriously. I also believe that the bulk of the population has done a great deal in this period. We have consistently strengthened the Labour Inspectorate, which is very important, we are creating new centres for labour crime, which work very well, and which should be established in all police districts. One comes back in the annual budgets, but at least this is an important priority for the Left. We've strengthened the apprenticeship at all conditions we've been able to, and not least we're imposing demands on the use of apprentices in public supply, which we've been talking about for many years, and which are now being done. It's very important. One might say a lot about companies with apprentices, but what is at least certain is that companies with apprentices are serious enterprises. It's actually a win-win thing to make clear demands on having apprentices, both for the apprentices themselves and throughout the seriousness of working life. In the last week we had an important issue in which we strengthened the alarm protection for workers in general and for hired workers in particular. In addition, one decided to get a case back with alert protection for posted workers. It's important, so you get to know what the real conditions are. So it was said by the speaker before me that the role of the trustees is weakened in the Norwegian working life. I don't agree with that. On the contrary, with the changes you have made in the work environment law now, there has been a greater difference between the freedom one has in an enterprise where people are not organized, and where they are organized, where one in companies with organisation, with collective agreement with the trustees, can have a greater flexibility than one had before, and one can when one does not have organisation. So that's where I think the analysis fails. Of course, there are several measures that you should consider in the future. The left has, in several respects, proposed measures that we consider to be very safe, including: the minimum wage standards in working life. Standards no one can fall under, think we would be an important measure, which most unfortunately have rejected. Finally, when it comes to purely budgetary priorities, I would like us to be able to make sure that the large increases in the police budget over the last few years could benefit Ecocrim even more. Ecocrime has a very important task, and researching serious work-life crime, especially organised work-life crime, is unlikely to require resources, and if you want to be able to properly digest them, you need one of those resources. Look-ups in the newspapers and on TV shows, etc. are not always as clear. as other police work, but this is very important police work, and it should be reflected in the resource situation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e546	I share the views of the proposers on the importance of ensuring a serious and good working life. We mainly have a clean and serious working life in Norway, with good working conditions for the vast majority. The workplaces are characterised by participation and cooperation. It is government policy to build on these strengths of the Norwegian labour market model. It is an overall objective to ensure that everyone can participate and participate in the labour market. The government therefore emphasises the broad cooperation that includes all organisations in the world of work and the facilitation of an organised working life. Unfortunately, some enterprises and parts of industries are affected by unprofessional employment and crime. This undermines the values on which Norwegian working life is based. According to reports from the public authorities, labour crime has become more widespread, more serious and more complex. The government has therefore stepped up its efforts. Early in 2015, we presented a strategy against the crime of working life. In February this year, the strategy was revised, further developed and updated in order to increase its impact on the fight against crime at work. Throughout this process, there has been close dialogue with social partners. Follow-up to all these measures is now under way. Under this government, close cooperation has been established between public agencies to have a broad front against crime that undermines serious employment. We have made sure that the Labour Inspectorate, Nav, the tax administration, the police and other agencies have established commitment cooperation. The State budgets for the years 2015-2017 provide funds for the establishment of seven co-located centres between the departments through the budgetary agreements with the Christian People's Party and the Left. The experience is that enhanced co-operation offers significant results in the fight against labour-life crime. The budgets report that what they have achieved jointly would not have been possible if they had worked separately, i.e. like they worked before. The proposal for a representative requests a comprehensive review of the legislation relating to the sharing of information between departments. This work is well under way. Union cooperation has led to a better sharing of information than in the past. A common guide has been developed to clarify the legislation. A concrete work has been undertaken in several departments to assess the need for necessary legislative changes. In addition, the Administrative Law Committee has been given an additional task to assess the rules of the Administrative Law on professional secrecy against the needs of agencies for information from other authorities in order to combat crime. Recently, the Stortinget addressed a proposal from the government to amend the professional secrecy provisions of the Social Services Act. Several of the proposals concern labour hiring legislation. This does not constitute a large part of total employment, but in particular in the construction industry, use appears to be increasing. I am concerned about this development and have taken the initiative to work with the social partners to solve problems in the lessee area. The government is in favour of finding solutions, and the ministry had as late as yesterday a new meeting with the parties to discuss how this can be done in concrete terms. The government wants to make it more difficult to operate unprofessionally and easier for those who are engaged in following laws and regulations. That is why we are committed to working with the social partners on measures that make it easier for businesses and consumers to find out about serious suppliers, among others. in the sectors of construction and cleanness. In order to ensure a serious working life, it is important to put the criminal actors out of play. For this reason, the government has provided for an increase in the level of penalties for offences against the health and safety at work and has established targeted cooperation. There is no time to comment on all the individual proposals. Many of the measures included in the draft representative are already being implemented by the government. In cooperation with the social partners, the government is working purposefully to promote a serious and organised working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e563	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e568	Let me first say that I agree with the Council of State that the Centres for Labour Crime are one of the things that contribute positively to the cooperation between departments, and in that context I would like to thank the Left and Christian People's Party for having got it into budgetary negotiations in the Stortinget. It is not a proposal from the government, but it has entered into the budget agreement in Stortinget, and we are pleased about that. With regard to the conversations that are now about hiring labour, I think it is a very good example that even if we are down in Stortinget, it is to demand – from us and from the parties – to do something about renting, which leads to the government finally having to start. In this respect, however, I have a question relating to the postponement of redundancies and follow-up, because the practice of the Council of State has led to fewer permanent jobs in that sector, and to the recruitment of individual enterprises, contrary to what the Council of State says is wanted, i.e. more permanent jobs. What if the councils cleaned up their own backyard, as well as contributing to the business community?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e575	Let me take the rent first. As early as 2015, the government invited the parties to discuss how to resolve them. Those conversations showed that the parties were far apart, and it was difficult to reach an agreement. Then, among other things, they sat down. launch a research project to see the scope of forms of connectivity. Now we've intensified our work, but there are a lot of issues that need to be solved. I am prepared to make it as quickly as possible and look forward to receiving constructive contributions from the parties here. With regard to the tendering regime, it is not appropriate that it leads to a large number of individual undertakings. There is in particular one company where the scope is great – Your Development – that has been asked questions about here, both orally and in writing. As far as your development is concerned, we are now looking at the form of organisation there, but a preliminary review shows that the size of individual enterprises in this sector is no larger now than in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e582	My question as to whether the Council of State thinks it is right that people who are being offered on behalf of the state use individual companies as staff in what should be a permanent job in the company. Although there is one company that dominates with a large proportion of it, there are also other companies. My question was related to the Council of State's position on this, because it is at least given the impression that we agree that in the construction industry and in other industries the tasks should be mainly solved by our own employees. Then I assume that the Council of State sees that it is a paradox that a new arrangement in the state leads to fewer employees of their own who are in charge of redundancy and follow-up, and that there are several who register individual enterprises. Does the Council agree that this should not happen? Let me say it so carefully, and then we get back to the investigation she herself started, considering a named company.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e589	Now it's not like there's a new arrangement that leads to this spreading. There is not much more now than before, but there is especially one company that uses this form. To the extent that companies use sole proprietorships to circumvent permanent employment, I agree that this is not desirable. That's also the background that we're now looking at, among other things. one company. But there may be good reasons why companies hire expertise and special skills in this sector as well. There may be people with special needs and where you need special skills, perhaps not as a permanent job, but where you need the skills of some professional groups. But it's quite another thing that you hire it when you need it, compared to the fact that you hire a single man's company to get around the law. Whether that's what's happening in your development is too early to say, but yes, I agree with Dag Terje Andersen that fixed employment should be the general rule, but there may be a need for rental here as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e594	I thank you for your answer. Let me ask a completely different question, because the Council of State also gives the impression – even if for example. the treatment of the Working Environment Act suggests the exact opposite – that the role of the parties is important, that is, the Council of State, and that trustees are important. Some of the proposals we have to deal with today are just about clarifying the trust election role, because one of the loopholes that have been found to make exceptions to the work environment law are so-called collective agreements between one person, which are later referred to as trustees, and the company for which he is to work. We know that there is and should be rich access to exceptions to the general provisions of the Working Environment Act when there is a proper contractual partner inside the picture. Do the Council of State agree with me that, in order to ensure the flexibility of real trust elected and organised working life, we need to stop the concept of trust elected in this way being misused?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e603	To what extent this breaks down, it's not so good to say. I hear someone say you're trying to bypass this. I fully agree that tripartite cooperation is important. It is important that trustees are allowed to participate and have a high degree of participation in the workplace. This government has been committed to strengthening the ability of local trustees to help determine, by transferring power and authority locally. To the extent that there are loopholes, you'll see if you can close them again. There is no doubt that the efforts of the trustees are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e608	It is necessary for the government to follow up the fundamental criticisms of the National Audit Office regarding the situation in the labour market. I am therefore pleased with the cooperation between, among others. the tax system, the Labour Inspectorate and the Ecocrime. My question goes to crew companies. Security of income is essential. Then you know what you have for the kind of amount of work, and what payment you have for work. It gives you confidence. Then we have the crew companies, which is the most uncertain one can go into. There we have the entire barn door that opens up to the crew companies in Norwegian working life, namely the Working Environment Act § 14-12 a second paragraph. The Council of State has previously said that repealing that paragraph is not contrary to the EEA Agreement. There is a great opportunity to reduce the scope of such contracts by repealing that paragraph. Can the Council repeat that it is not contrary to the EEA Agreement to repeal the Working Environment Act § 14-12 a second paragraph?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e615	I am firmly convinced of what I have said from this chair in the past. This is a proposal that has been discussed several times in the past as well. The representative of Lundteg was in the reports of the Riksrevision. It may be worth recalling that the National Audit Office’s reports relate to the years 2009–2015 and 2012–2015. There are quite a number of years they're taking up, and there's a good basis for recognizing, even in this room, that the work against work crime is demanding, and that there are many who may have neglected over the years. The government follows up the National Audit Office's reports precisely because we are engaged in combating unprofessional employment in the labour market for the sake of employees, for the sake of the serious companies, but not least for the sake of community, tax revenue and our values.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e622	It is correct that what the Riksrevision pointed out in the context of labour-related crime, among other things, went back in time. There is nothing that has arisen now, under this government. It's evolved in the past, and the point from the Center Party is just that this goes from bad to worse. It's like a bacterium that's spreading. As Andersen’s representative was about to say – getting more serious into it is getting a better trade union organisation. So we're up to it with agreements with the trade unions. There we know that there are more or less pro forma union agreements, so-called house agreements, which have little seriousness in themselves, and we have nation-wide organisations that have great seriousness and take great responsibility. Will the Council of State help to improve at least the second paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act, so that it is linked to nationwide collective agreements, in order to bring more seriousness to that side?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e630	I don't want to do that. It cannot be concluded that house agreements themselves are unprofessional. There are many companies that have house agreements that are serious, and how you choose to organize yourself on the individual business, I don't necessarily have to have so many different kinds of relationships about. Then the representative says that it has gone from bad to worse. Yes, has it really gone from bad to worse? I'm not so sure. You could say that the crime scene is becoming more and more complex. The criminal actors are creative, they may be a horsehead in front of us. But at the same time, there is no doubt that the efforts that have been made in recent years and years have also made us better at ‘taking’ crime. Cooperation is better between the agencies, we have improved methodological development and more exchange of experience, which means that we have also improved. With regard to international cooperation, the enforcement directive adopted recently by the Stortinget has also given us the opportunity to cooperate internationally with labour supervision in other countries, but also the opportunity to recover fines on behalf of each other. It's actually moving forward, so I'm not as pessimistic as the representative Lundtigen is.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e635	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e642	The public is a major buyer, and there is a power that must be used. It must be used to prevent social dumping and to ensure that there is a decent working life in public enterprises as well. The State has even created its own guide to ensure that government procurement builds up under this. In this regard, one would believe that the Minister of Labour was particularly aware of what her own offices are doing, for she keeps saying that the government is concerned about decent working life, and we hear about powerful measures to counteract undesirable developments. When the Council of State in its answer to the question from the representative Andersen almost minimizes and tries to explain that there is a good deal of use of individual enterprises in the underlying agencies of Nav, that sometimes there may be a need for special skills, I become alarmed. Because it has recently been revealed that there are companies that have the majority of their employees on individual contracts – yes, they even advertise them through Nav’s own websites. Then I think the Council of State should have been quite clear that this is a development we do not want in public – because it is not just within the labour and welfare community that we see such a development. If it is not just a matter of celebrating speeches that you are engaged in fixed and increased levels of organisation and of counteracting undesirable developments in the labour market, it should be stated that this is an obscurity that we do not want into Norwegian employment. But that might be good, because the statistics on start-ups are getting very pretty, and the need for temporary employees will also be less, so that you can beat two flies in one taste by using and allowing that kind of employment or involvement in the public sector. It is cheaper to use that labour force – you do not have to pay employers’ fees. People in this room are concerned that those who work like that have less social rights than others. Yes, we see it when we see how the economy is for the companies that work that way: a profit margin of 40 pst., when the average for the rest of the Norwegian business life is less than 10 pst. What does the government do to counteract this? Does the Council of State think it's okay? Why don't you intervene and say this isn't okay? We want a decent working life, and then we can't allow that kind of development.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e649	What is social dumping? Well, that's when employees get significantly worse pay and working conditions than they usually do in Norwegian working life. But it's also about a lot more. It's about how serious businesses can be weakened and tempted to be unprofessional when they lose contracts to unprofessional operators. It is about how ordinary Norwegian workers can lose their jobs or get more precarious and poor conditions, how social organisations can have less impact, lose members and get into poor circles, and how this can ultimately weaken Norwegian employment and the Norwegian social model. If inappropriate working conditions are addressed in the Norwegian labour market, both the normal worker in Norway and the serious enterprises will be affected. When we know that social dumping is spreading like rings in the water, it is serious that the government is failing in the work of a well-regulated and decent Norwegian working life. When the Progress Party had the Minister of Labour, there was a sport in grumbling with the Labour Party's action plans. A forward-looking hold was promised, and it was to be gripped, not just created plans. Well, we've seen a little bit of both grip and planes. I note that the current Minister of Labour does not dare to have equal seniority, but is a little more humble and, unlike the leader of the committee, willing to raise a decent and constructive level of debate that is worthy of this national assembly. I think it's wise, especially when we now - black and white - have the reports from the Riksrevision, which documents the labyrinth of today's government. The Labour Party understands that social dumping must be taken seriously not only in the case of migrant workers but also in the case of all other workers and serious enterprises. That's precisely why the Stoltenberg government did a lot to fight social dumping and promote a decent working life. Our government is producing three action plans against social dumping. We've continued to work on this in opposition, because unfortunately, we're never really going to get rid of the problem. If we put one hole in the dam against social dumping, the semi-criminal actors dug new holes in the dam. Therefore, it is so regrettable that our proposals today do not get any plurality. It is absolutely crucial to seal the hole for lawless conditions in parts of the world of work. It must be the organized working life and not the organized crime that sets the standard in Norwegian working life. That is the background to the Labour Party's proposal, which we are discussing today, and which the majority unfortunately vote against. So the slicing will continue, and the only ones that care about it are the unprofessional actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e670	Governments say that they want to cooperate with the social partners in order to promote participation in the organised labour market. That's good, but how? There is now a proposal on the table on increased trade union deductions, but is it supported by the Council of State and Government parties? - No, I'm not. Is there anything in the setting about what you want to do instead for increased level of organisation? - No, I'm not. In the vote, the majority argues that the discussion on decent working life should be cross-political and that this is a debate that is to a lesser extent suitable for party-political polarisations. The majority refers to the consensus that has prevailed in the field. That majority comment contains one thing that I agree with. The discussion of a decent working life should be cross-political. And then it contains one thing that is directly wrong: that there is consensus that has been prevailing. When we promoted Action Plan 1 against social dumping in May 2006, it was against the right and the right. Action Plan 2 in October 2008 – they continued to vote against. They voted against measures such as transparency, public service, solidarity, collective redress, which were among the first to be eliminated by the government, against regional protection agents, against introducing the maximum number of sections in a contract chain. Action Plan 3 came in May 2013 – they voted against – Action Plan 4 in December 2014 – they voted against it. At that time, the Council of State referred to the government statement, which was to evaluate the red-green measures first, even though Fafo had both evaluated and concluded. The measures work where your schooled trust electors. When we proposed measures against unsolicited trailers on Norwegian winter roads, the representative of the Right said that the Workers' Party made it an unsolicited debate on social dumping. We have put forward proposals for action in aviation, in shipping – have been voted down. Today for Action Plan No. Five, we're going to be down. Thursday next week on the strategy for Norwegian aviation, requested by the NHO – we will be voted down. And speaking of NHO, when the Council of State indicates that much has been done, then the Riksrevision protests. The NHO does the same and calls for the follow-up of industry proposals. The Building Masters Association says that the problems are increasing, the measures are not sufficient. Entrepreneur’s Association – Construction and Construction actively supports the proposals No. 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 21 and 24 in our new action plan. But those proposals are being defeated. I'm sitting with an e-mail from Drammen's Crafts and Industry Association on the desk. They have invited public agencies to cooperate, but have not received a response. So there are two ways to reach consensus: we stop making proposals – that's not going to happen. The second is that we get more support from the government parties for our proposals, but that may not happen either.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e679	I think the representative Lundtigen's metaphor about unprofessional actors like a bacterium that spreads was good. Bacteria can be resistant. Similarly, we see that unprofessional actors are creative, they are snooping away from legislation. It underlines the importance of an offensive approach from here and a strong policy from there, which is cross-political and predictable. We read and hear too often about workers who are exposed to unfair pay and working conditions, and it should tear in our minds every time we read about this. This shall not be the case in the Norwegian working life. Fortunately, Norwegian work is one of the best in the world, and it should still be. Cooperation with the parties is fully relevant in the work against the unprofessional actors. The trade union movement has been a formidable force in the development of Norway — fortunately — and it should continue to be. The previous speaker said it's not true that there is consensus tradition in this area. That's wrong. The Labour Party wants to create a polarization here, together with the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. In fact, it's a consensus. I made a small count of the suggestions in the vote, because there are now 36 suggestions in the vote. 32 of the proposals are about things that are in progress, that have been implemented, or where work is being done, for example. through dialogue with the parties – 32 of 36 proposals! Then you can ask yourself, what are we doing now? What is this thing? Well, it's about the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party trying to pretend there's a big disagreement in this area. However, I repeat: 32 of the proposals in the vote are in progress, have been implemented – or work is being done, for example. through dialogue with the parties. One proposal we do not see, and it is about making wage recovery a part of free legal aid. It has my party in its game program for the next period. You just wonder why on the left-hand side of the world doesn't support such an important proposal in the fight against the unprofessional and to make sure that people get the pay they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e690	Yes, this is an important theme. A serious organized working life is what all of us representatives in this room want to have. There is a great deal of cross-political agreement on the survival of the unprofessional actors, and we stand together in the fight against labour-life crime. Therefore, it becomes strange to stand here and try to overwhelm each other about who is the best in the class in terms of the measures to be taken. Like the representative, Mr Andersen, I am concerned that we should have a decent level of debate on the crime of working life, and that must also apply to the representative, Mr Andersen himself. The representative does not have the fascination with what is right and what is good about action in this area. The representative always refers to the excellence of the previous government and to all the action plans launched. But it wasn't that we got rid of this problem in the eight years they ran, and it's not that weird, because this is a very complicated and very difficult area to get alive and is something we have to work on continuously. That's what this government has done and really got into right away. It becomes strange when the Workers' Party repeatedly tries to question the government's priority in the fight against the crime of working life. This work had top priority right from the start. Even the Prime Minister and the then Minister of Labour and Social Affairs attended several meetings with the social partners in advance of the government's strategy to strengthen the work against the crime of working life. The work has been followed up in the budgets with appropriations, with increased controls and not least with the co-location centres between the police, the hub, the tax administration and the Labour Inspectorate in the largest cities, there are probably seven places that have now received it. Work has borne fruit; many unprofessional actors have been exposed, and actors have also been expelled from the country. The representative Rotevatern referred to the increase in apprentices. We have done that in every budget, in the apprentice grant. We have also strengthened the warning rules. But I would like to comment on point 1 of the opposition responses: the challenge of fewer people organizing themselves in the world of work. I agree that this is a challenge and that it can weaken tripartite cooperation in the long term. So this is an area you really have to look at, and there I think the organizations have a special responsibility themselves. I am invited to attend a debate at the FO Municipal Conference next week, and I must say I got a little shock when I saw the program. I wondered if I was invited to a kick-off collection for the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens to get a new government. When you're invited to organize and almost at the same time get a registration in a party, it's no wonder people don't want to organize. I have been the leader myself and encouraged people to organize themselves, but they hesitated. Now I see why.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e710	Social dumping is extremely profitable, some of the most profitable things you can do. Therefore, it must also be understood that to combat this, strong, powerful measures must be taken. I am among those who have been sitting on the Stortinget for quite a long time and have agreed that the Right Party and the Advance Party have voted against the most effective measures when they were presented, one by one. During the first round, they also wrote the reasons for the suspension, as it was stated that these measures would prevent competition on wages and salaries. And that's exactly what this is all about. These are games that want bigger differences. We who want less differences know that the measures against social dumping must be strong and powerful and must really sweat on the wallet. And it's important to do it fast, much faster than the Right Party and the Advance Party will. So you have voted against these measures that can work. One of the most important measures is to increase the level of organisation and to provide organisations with powerful means of finding out whether social dumping is taking place. And when social dumping takes place, they need to know that when they go to the Labour Inspectorate, the instruments are used there. It shows the National Audit Office's reports that they don't. The right hand party and the Progress Party were also opposed to introducing an infringement fee – the point that the Riksaudition says, at the top of its report, is what could have worked the most, if they had done so. For the Labour Inspectorate says that when they go to the police, the police do not have the resources to prioritize these matters, they are dismissed. Then it does not help to go to the police with the cases – if nothing is done to them. At that time it would be even more important to explicitly instruct the Labour Inspectorate to use the means they have at least. But it's not being done. Unfortunately, there is no consensus in this field. This is a serious problem, for it destroys serious businesses in Norway. It's the basements that win. It shows all the hearings on this matter – and before – that here the serious work life is in line with us and not in line with the government. Having proper pay and working conditions in the country is what has distributed power and money most fairly in this country. It is trade union movement and organisation that have civilised us and made us a country where it is also possible to live as an ordinary worker, and where one should not be competed in a labour market of social dumping. I believe that the situation is more serious than that government later to believe, that there are now more industries, and that this has to be stopped.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e727	Just a little comment on the representatives Heggelund and Stein Mathisen: I think I'll start by returning to NHO's letter to the committee – and the NHO is probably not part of the opposition, according to neither Heggelund nor Stein Mathisen. The letter is dated 24 May, and it is two weeks and two days ago. So there the NHO says that the problems are still increasing. One of the three main reasons they list is that there is a lack of comprehensive action, and that one does not see enough how it would work in the context. I want to connect it to the public service system, which the citizens opposed when we introduced it, and look it up against collective law, which the citizens have removed. The Council of State and the majority do not see the need to strengthen the public service regime and vote against its proposal. Instead, the Council of State shows that an increased level of penalties for breaches of the public service obligation has been introduced in 2015. It's good and good, but it doesn't help if wages and salaries are rarely checked, as the Riksrevision points out. In that light, it is particularly regrettable that collective redress was not allowed to work. Strengthening supervision is good and good, but 60,000 schooled trustees in the individual workplace have more eyes and ears than the supervision can handle. That it is okay for an hired worker who is subject to social dumping, to sue his own employer, nobody really believes. Legal aid is good and good, but that case makes it probably the last thing to look at the hired worker at that place. One says that collective law is contrary to the basic principles of our legal system, but what should be a foreign element is when international organised criminal gangs make their admissions, for example. in Norwegian workplaces. The regional protection officer in my municipality said a few days ago just out to the local authority that there is actually a regional protection officer in some places not dared to enter on his own. Then it is completely incomprehensible that we should not be able to use strong tools to get rid of the obscenity this is, but to believe that a single contracted worker who has strange contracts and is subject to social dumping, also wage-earning – even in industries where it is public service – will be able to do that job on its own, will not happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e736	I take the floor to thank the representative Stefan Heggelund for his contribution. It was constructive. There was a new tone in the post. I hope for a time, because what the representative here said was that he acknowledged the problem – acknowledged that we have challenges in getting a serious and organized working life. The representative's contributions were in stark contrast to the Committee's chairman, Mr Kambe from the Right. The issue in question is the safety of labour income. It's absolutely fundamental. Very many people experience that one goes from safety to insecurity. It creates so many consequences throughout one’s life that it limits the individual’s freedom. I am pleased that the representative Heggelund was interested in the metaphor ‘bacteria that are breaking’. The representative said bacteria can become resistant. Yeah, if we don't have the necessary, powerful tools to hit the bacterium right away so we get rid of it, but just use a little bit, resistance develops, and so we get an even more demanding bacterium, which it becomes even harder to get away with. That is what is happening in Norwegian working life today. The active substances are not sufficient in relation to the challenge. We let it develop, and eventually a situation develops where it becomes very difficult to tame in order to ensure the serious employers. We have many serious employers who look at this in the same way as the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre do here in the Chamber today. Therefore, the Centre Party has proposed the necessary instruments to reduce the scope of employment agencies, i.e. repealing Section 14-12 of the Employment Environment Act. [[2]] We need to get rid of the employment contracts that have a content that is close to or goes directly on, for example, permanent employment without pay between jobs. It's a game of words that's absolutely amazing. What is at the heart of such contracts is the unemployment society. I am pleased with the contributions of the representative Heggelund. I'm glad he's willing to fight bacteria. I'm glad he's also willing to fight the development of resistant bacteria, and then one has to use the necessary, tough instruments right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e750	I thank the representative Lundtigen for his good words, but so is the fact that we have had a very special relationship after the trip we had together to Rome, when we were at the OECD meeting. But I wish that Lundtegen had also listened to the posts that have held these years on the crime of working life, because it has been the content of all the posts we have made. The point is that the different parties that are sitting here on the Stortinget agree quite on the description of reality in combating work-life crime. It's really great, it's important, but then we'll delay the process every time you're like you're very disagreeing. To the representative Christoffersen: What is consensus tradition? Firstly, the majority of measures against labour-life crime proposed by the Red-Green Government voted in favour of the bourgeois parties – not everyone, that is quite right, but most of them. Those whom we voted against, who stood as good schemes in the workplace, have also been retained. That's consensus tradition; that's what it is. One thing we disagree about, and have removed, and that's collective law, because it violates some very fundamental principles in the state of law. But we've kept the second one. It's a consensus tradition. To the representative of Christoffersen: the consensus tradition is that 32 of the 36 proposals in the vote are already in effect respected. Then it's strange to pretend otherwise. To Rigmor Aasrud, who has become very concerned with the reintroduction sector and the tendering that was there: it was not so that it was better when it was monopoly. It was an inefficient system. Weak results on the transition to work. The title of one of the evaluation reports was ‘Reflective labour market measures’. So I registered that Rigmor Aasrud in the class struggle thought it was important that Nav had to do more on his own. I totally agree. This government took care of it. The working party tried to put chains in the wheels because it wanted to create national guidelines on what Nav would be allowed to do. In the end, I record that I have still not received an answer as to why the red-green parties are against wage collection as part of free legal aid. It would have been nice if there was a consensus on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e761	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e766	To remove any misunderstanding, I just want to say that the good relationship between the representative Heggelund and I have, has its basis in that I put on him a vegetarian dinner in Roma – and it's paid, so everything's fine! [[Laughter]] Unfortunately, we do not agree on the reality description here in the hall. The representative Heggelund is a lonely swallow who dares to talk without a script. More people should do it. Many people serve well in today's working life, as Andersen's representative said. That's the point. Many people make a very good profit because cheap workers outstrip others, and they outstrip serious companies. That's the core of it all. And if that's how the Right agrees with the proposals, it's strange that one doesn't support any of them. It is also special that one does not promote his own proposals. The representative Heggelund is on the committee and could make his own proposal on the recovery of wages and salaries as part of free legal aid. That is a good suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e775	I'm listening to what's being said here. The long range of measures advocated by the representative Heggelund, for which they have voted, is all right, but the important thing is that they voted against the instruments that can really make a difference and have removed the means of action that may be the most important, namely collective redress. For where social dumping is most prevalent, there is the least organisation of working life. If there's someone who's organized in a workplace, and people who are hired to be socially dumped, you're naïve if you think that it's possible for such a worker to sort this out and get what you're entitled to. I understand that everyone agrees that Norwegian pay and working conditions are required. The question is how to secure it. I don't know how much we're going to manage work supervision and various departments to do the job that trust-elected and organised people can do if they have access rights – which the Right and Advance Party have been opposed, but now it's clear that they have to have – but also collective redress law. Because the problem here is that those who are basements have to be taken. And that's very strange, I think, when the Progress Party is so hard on crime, on absolutely all things, especially when there are foreigners and you can put that stamp on them, but in this case they're so "suspended". I have not heard a single good proposal from the Progress Party in these matters. And here it's really money to make, money to steal, and workers and ordinary people to plague. In the next round, this is what we are now seeing with regard to the Norwegian salary level, that those who have the lowest wages in Norway have remained silent, the differences are increasing, precisely because there is a pressure on pay and working conditions because we cannot stop social dumping. Then we need to take action for a more organised working life, and we need to use the tools that lie there. We must ensure that the Labour Inspectorate uses e.g.: the infringement fee, so that it really cheats, because that is the money it is about. If you make a huge profit in doing something illegal, it must be that the beauty you get when you get caught is that it doesn't pay off. And then the police must also give priority to these serious issues, because this is about to destroy the opportunities for serious, solid Norwegian companies, and it is destroying the pay and working conditions of those who are going to work in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e784	I'm going to wake myself up to ruin the idyllic atmosphere that can occur after a dinner in Rome. I even celebrated 30 years of wedding there ten years ago and know that the good mood can sit for quite a long time. So I know that part of the Right Strategy when there's a big political disagreement is saying that here we really agree. It's a well-known strategy to tone down disagreements. Here we are talking about one of the issues where there is a big difference in Norwegian policy, and there is an attempt to create the impression of something else. A small attempt in the pleasant atmosphere that follows from the stay in Rome is to invite the Council of State to think through something that it might agree on. I go back to the Council's reply to me, where she points out that, as a result of one of the many changes in the Working Environment Act, local trustees have more influence. However, since 1935 and the conclusion of the main agreement in Norway, one of the cornerstones of the Norwegian model, everyone on the employers’ and workers’ side – all other organisations in society – has had a common understanding of what a trustee is. There are those who participate in an organisation, representing several, and who have been chosen to have confidence. Just there is one of our major challenges now, such as: in the case of manning companies and other hired labour. As long as some legal scams have found that this is not specified in the Working Environment Act, I and my one employee can write an agreement on a service that we hereinafter call a collective agreement, and then use many of the good opportunities provided by the Working Environment Act to allow trustees and employers to make exceptions to the strict regulation of the Working Environment Act. Then, as the Council of State points out as positive, that power has moved out to the extreme, that the arrangement can be abused to a greater extent than before. Therefore, in a harmonious spirit, do I ask: does the Council of State see that some such dilemmas can arise, which help the unprofessional working life a little by shifting responsibility for the kind of approvals of collective, strong, trust-elected organisations to the individual trust-elected, when the concept of "trust-elected" can be used in this way, contrary to what has been a general opinion?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e793	The representative Lise Christoffersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e798	I must admit that I am probably not as harmonious as the previous speaker when discussing employment issues. The representative Heggelund says that 32 out of 36 proposals have been initiated, implemented, or work is being done in cooperation with the parties. Then it is very strange that the NHO is so dissatisfied, and that other strong employers’ organisations are also so dissatisfied with the results achieved. Heggelund says that here we have a consensus tradition. No, we don't. Consensus is what they are doing in the Foreign Affairs Committee. In our committee we discuss the main contradictions in Norwegian policy. We have very often settings divided into a majority and a minority in the committee. The coseprate to which the Right has applied is just an attempt to obscure the effects of its own policies and the contradictions that actually lie there, but they're obvious to most, so I don't think it's any use.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e805	I have a comment for the representative Heggelund's contribution instead, where he suggests that under previous governments the labour market measures have been almost surrounded by a monopoly, but now it has become much better. I recommend that the representative, Heggelund, who is often concerned about reading about the issues in question, read the report called Billions – not people, which has now been published. It says something about what is the result of the tender practice that his party traps in government and his party have blessed here in Stortinget. The goal was that there would be more diversity. The result has become a simple, almost monopolistic market, which allows single operators to take about the whole market. In any case, the relevant care which these batches otherwise have for the non-profit organisations shall not be made visible in the tenders which have been tendered or in whom they have been invited to participate. There have been no ideal actors who have won the tenders so far. This may be because the framework conditions that the ideals have are completely different. We have heard many times in this room that you are very busy with the ideal organisations. The government has promised to settle the historical post-employment benefit obligations. That's the first thing that was going to happen. That was to happen before the summer, it was said in a letter from the Prime Minister to the Christian People's Party. It may not have been said which summer it would be, but the result is that the matter has not yet come to Stortinget. There is no solution for the non-profit organisations providing services in this area. This means that it becomes more difficult for them to participate in such competitive procedures. The result is that big players take the market. They use employment that we should say was unacceptable in Norwegian employment, and that's what I expect the government, the Right Party and the Advance Party, are concerned about when we talk about social dumping, and not just having fun with some trip to Rome, which has created some kind of consensus. At least not all of us were in Rome and experienced that consensus.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e812	It's almost touching to the right of the government's indignant over being legally criticized for its lack of effort in this area. But it's probably hard to understand on the right that there are others who have higher standards, higher ambitions for Norwegian working life. It is simply not in the right-hand side of its ideological portfolio to smooth out differences, set limits on wage races at the bottom, or strengthen trade unions. It's not in line with the interests of the right parties, and then the only option, as we see in the debate here today, is to misjudge the discussion with the attack, as committee leader Kambe is doing, or to try again to sweep the deep ideological dividing lines between the left and right sides of the carpet, which the representative Heggelund is trying to do through creative rhetoric. But it doesn't work, because the contradictions are there – open today – for everyone who wants to see. They're lying there. One can see it through the votes of the Stortinge for many years with discussions on social dumping and the crime of working life. I understand that attacking and misrepresentation here must be the best and only defence, for the list of measures that the right-hand side has voted against is long and ugly, the measures that weaken the organized and serious working life are the same, and the list of initiatives for a serious and organized working life that the Right and the Advance Party have brought forward is unfortunately fearsomely thin. With what's behind me, I thought the representative Stein Mathisen had to stop fooling about why so many of the trade unions, the spearheads in the organized world of work, now eager for a government change. It's because they represent workers, and they see that the government party doesn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e819	To the question from the representative Dag Terje Andersen, who asks if there are any dilemmas about shifting power down: Yes, there may be some dilemmas about it, but there may also be some dilemmas about wanting to take away local trustees and employees’ power as well – those who are close to businesses and know where the shoe prints, and what to do to solve the challenges of the individual enterprise. There could be dilemmas both ways. The fact that local employees are given greater power and influence at the expense of the central ones, I believe is an important principle. For the representative of Aasrud, the report ‘Millions — Not Humans’, mentioned in the Class struggle this week, is used as a proof of truth on the tender regime. The years referred to in this report are the second year — those are the years before the start of the new tender regime, and it cannot be used as a revenue for any purpose other than referring to the new tendering regime. Nor can this report be used to show how the profits are in enterprises. There's no way to compare. And – as the representative Heggelund had in mind – it was no better than in the field of recruitment. That's not it. That was why you wanted to do something about it – you saw that the results were too bad. What Nav reports now is that more people get into work. That's good. The report to which the representative Aasrud refers almost exclusively to the operators. I think several of us should be busy with the users and what help they get. Then it has to be evaluated. The report's coming next year. Finally, I can reassure the representative Holen Bjørdal that my and the government's standards, both morals and others, are at least as high as his own standards. I dare say. This is also the reason why we have developed two obliging action plans against crime at work – the first with 22 points, the second with 25 points. So now it's followed up, and I'm glad that the agencies also say that the work they're doing now gives good results – you can take more. So, of course, we're going to go even further.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e830	The representative Dag Terje Andersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e836	I had to ask again because my question was not answered and possibly also unclear. We do not want to weaken the authority of local trustees, but we want to give authority to local trustees who are part of nationwide organisations, or – as it is also called in this language – who have the right to vote. What was my experimental question, and which I wish the Council of State could at least reason a little bit about, was if she sees that when she uncouples from the national level, there arises a situation that makes it easier to make so-called collective agreements locally and thus strengthen the unprofessional working life. It surprises me if the Council of State doesn't see that it can be a dilemma – let's say it can be a side effect of what she's adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e845	It was Holen Bjørdal's visit to me that made me take the floor. He didn't think it was so nice that trust elected and trade unions supported a red-green government – because they represent workers. Actually, so does this government. We're busy with the workers, because there's going to be good conditions in the workplace. In fact, my experience is that there are many people who choose not to be organised, especially the organisations associated with the LO, because there is a link between politics and trade union work. They don't want to get organized, because they don't want to participate and give their voice to the Workers' Party. I know a lot of people who work as guardians, like child protection educators and others who would like to join FO, but they don't want to. They find something else, or they're unorganized, because they won't support and give their vote to the Workers' Party. The same goes for many people who work offshore. There is also great frustration because there are trust-elects who stand up for a political party that they do not want to vote on at all. It is nice that the Working Party does not reflect more on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e850	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e855	I understand that the Council of State is questioning the report issued by Herning and Leikvoll, but then I will challenge the Council of State to say something about the situation now, after the new bidding rounds. Has it become a greater diversity? How many ideas have been offered? Is it true that your evolution has 25 pst. by the market, or is there any other information on which the Council of State sits? This has been the topic in this room several times. We have heard about it – we have heard about companies that have been quite doubtful, because the tenders have been designed in such a way that it is only the largest tenderers who can participate in them. Then I expect the Council of State to have considered the situation, when she rejected the report in cash as not being relevant, because it is not about today's bidding round. I'm asking the Council of State to explain.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e860	To this end, I reject the report: I reject the conclusion in the report, because the report cannot be used in this way if it did. It is not true that the profits of these companies are due to the new tendering regime, simply because the report refers to other years, the years before the new tendering regime came into force. I see today that one of the companies that is mentioned has even spoken out in the class struggle today, and the class struggle has also fixed that error. In the case of the tender regime itself, the background to this, as I said in my previous post, was that the return work was not good enough. You didn't get the help you needed, it was monopoly, the results weren't good enough. Many of the companies that delivered did not even have an overview of their own results. That was the background to the desire to change it, to release new actors, actors who had not been on the market in the past. There has been a report on how the acquisition itself has been carried out, showing that the acquisition has been carried out in line with the intention. So now it's evaluating the qualitative. How services have become, it is too early to say anything about it. That report will be published in 2018. But what Nav reports so far is that more people are reported to work than before, and we should all be happy about that. The most important thing must be that users get the offer they need, so that they get to work faster. So it might be that the report that's written, in many ways, is good, but it can't be used for what it's used for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e869	The representative Fredric Holen Bjørdal has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e874	The rather strange premise of some Right-People is that the degree of organisation would have gone into the situation if only the trade unions had operated a little more with right-wing policies. It says of itself that it falls on rocky ground. The trade unions are democratic organisations that give their support to the parties that best represent the interests of their workers. That the right party is not among those parties, Bente Stein Mathisen just has to take over and consider changing his own anti-employee policy. But it's never going to happen, because the Right represents completely different interests, which are incomparable with the core values and political ideologies behind the trade unions – and that's a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e879	The representative Bente Stein Mathisen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e884	I couldn't believe it: I mean, of course, trade unions have to work with union work. I myself have been a member of a trade union for over 30 years, the nurses' union, but they are not attached to any party, they are party-politically independent and work on union issues. That's what I'm saying. I think the degree of organisation will go up more if those who join an organisation feel that it is party-politically neutral.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e889	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e905	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e914	The fight for decent work is important. In that work, several factors are relevant. Some of them are as follows: The first is good cooperation with the social partners. It is absolutely essential to have good cooperation with the parties – dialogue with the parties in the preparation of new legislation, but also the important job of different trade unions themselves in discovering unfair pay and working conditions. It's invaluable. The other is a good code. It also requires an offensive attitude on our part, the Stortinget side, to ensure that we are at the forefront of the unprofessional actors and do not leave them a horsehead in front of us to destroy our common working life. The third is good public oversight. Strong labour supervision is important, which oversees unprofessional actors and social dumping. The fourth is good international cooperation. Why is that important? Well, that's important because the crime of working life knows no limits. The unprofessional actors – I was saying – work together across borders. Crime is spreading between countries, and good international cooperation is important. Unfortunately, this proposal undermines the last point. The proposal is: ‘The Government is asked to review Norwegian laws, regulations and collective agreements with a view to their being the overall EEA and EU legislation in the field of working life and, if necessary, to submit legislative proposals to ensure this.’ That's the usual tone we hear from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, that everything would have been so much better if you had just escaped the EEA. Yeah, then, according to these parties, we had no work-life crime to talk about. That's obviously wrong. Another thing we had not had is, of course, an important agreement for Norwegian export companies and therefore also for Norwegian jobs. This is one of the reasons why the social partners are supporting the EEA Agreement. Talk about red-green parties saying that the right-hand side does not listen to the parties. The center party and SV definitely don't do it in this question. Another nuance that disappears with the proposal of the Central Party is that the rules we deal with because of the EEA are minimum rules, where we can also make national adjustments. This is an unhealthy proposal, and it is a proposal that, if it had been adopted, would have led to the risk of undermining important international cooperation against the unprofessional actors – for example, think. only on the Enforcement Directive. Finally, because I forgot to say it at the beginning, I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e943	We agree with the proposers here on the need to strengthen the serious and organised working life. Where we separate teams, we are in the way that it can be done and in the premise for the proposal that we are now discussing. The Labour Party has put forward 30 proposals in a new action plan for a serious and organised working life. That's our plan, and we refer to it. The proposal we are now discussing is, in effect, calling for a proposal for the EEA Agreement. The saying of the Center Party produces, provides some leadership, and has some consequences that will prevent it from being supported by the Labour Party. The premise of the proposers appears to be that the EEA Agreement does not allow the fight against social dumping and that the EEA Agreement weakens the rights of employees, and therefore we should terminate the EEA Agreement. It is absolutely right that this agreement is not perfect. I don't know about any of the appointments that are, where any of the parties are 100 pst. Happy birthday. But the Labour Party is deeply in disagreement with those who say we have to cancel the EEA Agreement. The findings of the 2012 European Survey are clear: The years with the EEA have been a golden period for the Norwegian economy, and the agreements have been very good for Norwegian workers. In the years to come, we will create large new export industries in Norway. For all of them, Europe is the most important market. With the EEA Agreement, the Nordic countries and Europe are a home market. Without the agreement, we're outside, and there's a bad place to be. Common rules and certainty that they are followed by all, are decisive for Norway – especially decisive, I will say, for us. At a troubled time when more people are flirting with a new protectionism, in such a value, a small country such as Norway will be more vulnerable and more vulnerable to the meat weight and the strongest of its right without the EEA Agreement. I think it is wrong to claim that the agreements do not give us political arms. We can compare the United Kingdom to Norway. Both have had many work immigrants from new EU countries to the east. In the United Kingdom, labour migration has contributed to the creation of an entire class of working poor people. But it is not immigration that is the reason for it; it is right-wing policy, which has shattered trades, privatised, weakened workers' rights and left the market raw. In Norway, the right hand side didn't get what they wanted. In Norway, with the support of the Centre Party and the SV, we are fighting through the Law on Public Tariff Agreements – to intense resistance from the right side of Norway. The party of progress and the Right disdainfully referred to the law as the LO law. But she was attached, and she has the work. And we can make it stronger and easier to use, and strengthen the rights of both foreign and Norwegian workers, as we intend to do if we win the election. I don't think there are only two options in the EEA discussion: either full status quo or full output. I also believe that there are more pointed strategies to change the interests of Norwegian workers and ensure that work carried out in Norway takes place with Norwegian competence for Norwegian pay. Many of these tools are still complete or virtually untested and/or not used well enough or with systematics. The working party advocates such a more pointed and realistic policy-oriented strategy to increase the scope of action within the EEA. One of the proposals we want to consider is to take the core conventions of the ILO into the human rights law and thus give priority to important labour rights. The starting point of the Labour Party is that politics is beneficial. The EEA Agreement does not make Norwegian policy redundant. On the contrary, she makes it even more important who rules in Norway. She makes it even more important for politicians who want to regain control of the world of work and who want to fight against right-wing policy – whether he comes from Oslo or from Brussels.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e962	A serious working life with serious employers and a well-organised working life is crucial for productivity development in Norway. We see that developments in this area are not good, and that is related to what is happening in our working life. What is involved in working life and productivity development is the basis for the country’s well-being development — what people can benefit from together. The proposal seeks to ensure that Norwegian laws, regulations and collective bargaining agreements are governed by EEA and EU labour law. This was discussed for the first time in St. Prp. No 100 for 1991-1992, where, inter alia: read: «In the EEA, a firm providing services in another country will have the opportunity to bring its own workers. However, the importance of this is limited by the fact that all EEA countries can make their legislation on working conditions and agreements on pay and employment applicable to all types of paid work in their country, irrespective of the nationality of the worker.» There was a central issue in the EEA Agreement. There was a central question at the EU debate in 1994, and everyone who experienced it at the time remembers the debate between Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland and the head of the Central Party Anne Enger Lahnstein, who pointed out that we had a big problem here. There is a problem that has been addressed further in the trade movement in Norway. The LO Congress in 2013 took a decision and the LO Congress in 2017 took a decision. The last LO Congress has also decided that Norwegian collective bargaining agreements and Norwegian labour law must prevail over EU rules. This is important for LO, and I can promise Stortinget that it is also crucial for the Center Party – and we are consistently putting this forward. These are not strange demands. The requirement that collective agreements and professional rights should prevail over EU market forces is not special. On the contrary, this requirement, which is coming with increasing strength, is also within the EU. There was an overwhelming majority in the European Parliament in October 2008 in favour of EU market forces not being overarching fundamental rights, such as the right to enter into collective bargaining agreements and to enter into a labour dispute. The decision came after the European Court of Justice, with a series of judges in 2007-2008, held the opposite, namely that professional rights must be waived if they conflict with market forces. This has been addressed later by Euro-LO, but has not been opened up. In the decision of the LO Congress in 2013, one goes for the same thing as the Euro-LO does, and as requested by the majority of the European Parliament and many other EU bodies. As in 2013, all Norwegian parties face the same choice: either to actively go in to change the EEA Agreement, as required by a unanimous LO Congress, or to bow to the EU rules that provoke trade union movement the most, both in Norway and in the EU. We have an excellent example of the yard case, where in 2008 the State decided that, in the case of Norwegian yards and collective agreements, the parts of the collective agreements relating to travel, diet and lodging, as well as working time and a 20 pst out-of-home supplement. of wages and salaries, to be published and applicable to all. In 2009, the NHO and eight shipyards filed an action against the State. They considered that the public service was contrary to the EEA Agreement. In 2010, the NHO and the authorities lost the case in Oslo. It's anchored in 2012. The matter comes to the court of law. Again, the NHO and the yards are losing. In 2013, a unanimous Supreme Court states that public disclosure is in line with EEA law and is important for the Norwegian model of wage formation. So the NHO, by its association Norsk Industrie, with Stein Lier-Hansen at the head, sends a complaint to ESA, the monitoring body of the EEA Agreement. In 2015, ESA comes with its position that the public service is contrary to the EEA Agreement. In 2016, ESA announced a breach of the Treaty against Norway. In 2017, the government of ESA requests that the parties negotiate new provisions of the collective bargaining agreements. ESA says yes. So much was the primacy of Norwegian tariff agreements worth. Now is the dilemma: What can the parties do to change the reality of public service in terms of diet and diet while Norwegian workers do not lose? The solution also has problematic contagion effects on others. That's the nucleus. That's why the Center Party will have this up to discussion. We are pleased with the support from SV. It is clear that the Labour Party does not support the proposal. I take up the proposal of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e986	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e991	Are there Norwegian labour laws or regulations that must give way to EU rules? Are there collective agreements that must give way to EU rules? Are there ILO conventions that must give way to EU rules? These are key questions where there has been disagreement about the answer. In recent years, however, this disagreement should be gone, because both the employers and ESA have seen fit to establish that laws, collective agreements and ILO conventions have to give up if they are in breach of EU rules. The representative Lundtigen explained well how, in 2008, the Joint Confederation had published tariff agreements in the ship and yard industries, and that, in addition to the minimum wage, the companies were to cover travel, diet and lodging, and that, with the support of the NHO, a group of nine courts filed an action against the State in order to condemn this disclosure unlawfully, and the case was taken far. It is then important to know what was the reason why the Supreme Court approved the public tariff agreements for the yard industry in 2013. Indeed, if the yards and the NHO were to be supported, it would reduce the social benefits of the front-line model, provide a poor working environment, lead to lower levels of organisation among both workers and employers, and greater pay differentials. Then it is interesting that this case was drawn to ESA, which was introduced in practice as an over-judgment of a tariff question, as the case was resolved. The priority rights of port workers to unloading and loading were guaranteed in 1973 by ILO Convention No. 137, where it states: «Registered port workers shall have priority in the award of port work». In 1976, Norwegian Transport Workers' Association and NHO Logistics and Transport concluded a framework agreement under which this preferential right was exercised. The Supreme Court has, by a narrow majority, followed a advice from the EFTA Court that the EU rules on the right of establishment prohibit port workers’ preferential rights for unloading and loading. Consequently, collective bargaining rights under ILO Convention No. 137 feet aside. After this judgment, there is nothing to prevent shipping companies from choosing to leave unloading and loading to the crew on the ship, whatever the salary and working conditions they may have. The international consequences are serious. The preference enjoyed by port workers has been important for the wage and working conditions of thousands of seafarers engaged in international shipping, while international solidarity is being tested and can no longer be expressed in Norwegian ports because the effective and valuable solidarity between port workers and seafarers engaged in international shipping is not taken into account in the Supreme Court judgment. In February 2008, it became in accordance with ILO Convention No. 94 issued a regulation stating that public service providers or public works providers must guarantee employees their remuneration and working conditions at the level of the collective agreement in force in the industry, or what is otherwise normal for the place and profession in question. At the request of ESA, the government in November 2011 accepted that only the minimum wage and salary of the collective bargaining agreement could be required. There are many other examples of how laws and collective agreements must give way to EU rules. For those who would want to take this debate seriously and take the development of working life seriously, I recommend reading the paper ‘25 years with the EEA’, published by the Scientific Committee in No to the EU. It is good public information that can be downloaded from the website of No to the EU for free, and that should be homeworkers on the weekend coming and before the Stortinget returns to the harvest, especially considering how these issues are overcome. The requirement that collective agreements and professional rights should prevail over EU market forces is not a peculiar requirement, on the contrary it is a requirement which is being promoted with increasing strength even within the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1006	Proposalers are concerned that we should have a decent and well-organised working life. I agree with that, of course. On the other hand, I do not share the opinion of the proposers that the EEA Agreement and EU law are in the way of decent work in Norway. Access to Europe's internal market ensures access to the necessary labour force. And equally important – and perhaps more importantly: the EEA Agreement ensures that we have important common rules in the field of working life, which in many cases strengthen the rights of workers. These are often minimum rules that allow national adaptations. The EEA Agreement provides a wide scope for action, which we need to make use of when needed. In general, this works well. Many of the key measures put in place to combat social dumping, such as public procurement, HMS cards, recognition schemes and public procurement pay and working conditions, are examples of this. It is right that the free flow of persons and services may also present some challenges in terms of greater risk of social dumping and unequal conditions of competition. This is very often about non-compliance with the law, associations and pure crime. We need to meet these challenges with targeted actions. This is why the government has also put in place a strategy against the crime of working life, which is strongly anchored by the parties. Experience shows that more and better cooperation is a success factor in combating crime at work. Many of the strategy’s actions are therefore just about this, both nationally and internationally. Strengthened cooperation between authorities is also reflected in the EU rules – in the Enforcement Directive, which was adopted in the EU in 2014, and which we are about to implement in Norwegian law now. EU rules must not be seen as a threat to decent working life. The EEA Agreement provides a great deal of flexibility, and I therefore believe that there is no great need to go through the legislation to ensure that it is EEA-wide, as the proposers ask.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1019	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1024	The Council of State says that the EEA Agreement is not in the way of a decent working life. Yes, the Council of State further states that the EEA Agreement is an advantage, as it allows for common labour regulation that strengthens serious working life. It's the lack of compliance that's the problem. This is especially when we know the situation in which the government stands, that the Supreme Court has approved the public tariff agreement in the yard agreement. It was charged by the Norwegian Industry of the NHO, which was given the right – with respect – in ESA. The government is in a dilemma. That dilemma should be acknowledged by the government. Here's something above the other, and so far the EEA Agreement's working rules are over. My question is simply: is it to require that Norwegian collective bargaining agreements and Norwegian labour law take precedence over EU rules, contrary to the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1033	The representative Lundtägen has taken up the yard case both in his main post and here. This is a matter that has been going on for many years, and it ended up – so far – with ESA saying that travel, diet and lodging are not part of the pay concept. That's what ESA said. In addition to processes between the parties, i.e.: those who own the agreement, the NHO and the LO – where I am also optimistic, given the outcome of that process – there is also a process in progress in the EU about this particular issue, when the Commission has now proposed several changes to the broadcasting directive, where the very concept of pay and what to consider as remuneration are part of the discussion. So I do not agree with the premise of the representative of Lundtigen that the EEA Agreement is a barrier to the rights of employees. On the contrary, there are several areas where they have been strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1039	This is really special. Generalised collective agreements include travel, diet and lodging. It's part of the pay term. It is supported by the Norwegian Supreme Court. It is so well-known that the ESA notified infringement of the Treaty against Norway. It answers the government by asking ESA to accept that the parties negotiate until new provisions of the collective bargaining agreements. That's what ESA says. I guess that shows who's the boss here. ESA is the head of the Norwegian Supreme Court. Is it for this reason that the government is against Norwegian collective bargaining agreements and Norwegian labour law taking precedence over EU rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1044	ESA is not the boss, and I would say that the Supreme Court rulings it has been referred to here today, both the yard case and the Holship case, give no indication of that either. However, there may be elements in the collective bargaining agreement that are not in line with the EEA Agreement. In the yard case, it concerns concrete travel, diet and lodging. In return, ESA says that there are other ways to incorporate this into the agreements, and there are also the contractual parties LO and NHO now sitting and looking at it in common. In the Holship case, the High Court does not set aside access to the use of boikot in general, but only in use in order to obtain agreement in this specific case. So you can't say that on a general basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1049	Here we are not talking 'on a general basis', here we are talking on a specific and concrete basis. We have a specific case in which the Norwegian Supreme Court has said that the publication of the collective agreement is in line with Norwegian law, and that is what it should be. Then it'll be overtested by ESA. It's a fact. The Council of State must not try to exonerate it, since the Council of State has acknowledged it by asking ESA to accept that the parties negotiate until new provisions in the tariff negotiations. Isn't that a recognition from the government that ESA's decision is above the Supreme Court's decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1054	Again, it cannot be said that the ESA’s decision is superior to the Supreme Court in respect of collective agreements in general, but there was one element in the agreement that ESA considered to be contrary to the EEA Agreement, and it was in terms of use, or what it is considered to be remuneration. Should travel, diet and lodging be considered as part of the pay concept? That's what ESA says that you can't, and that's also the background that the parties are now sitting and looking at this element. I am pleased that the parties have chosen to be as constructive as they are. It is those who own the agreement, and the best thing would be for them to go through their agreements too, so that they can be reconciled. It's too early to say how it ends, but I have great faith that they will come to an agreement. But the whole premise for this debate is that the EEA debate is blocking the rights of workers. That's not right. On the contrary, the EEA Agreement has helped to strengthen many of the rights, in addition to Norwegian companies having access to the large European market on which they rely in order to export their goods and create jobs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1061	Does the Council of State consider that there are examples of Norwegian laws or regulations for employment, collective agreements or ILO conventions that have had to give way to EU rules, and if the answer is yes, what consequences should it have?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1066	Norway has entered into agreements that we are obliged to comply with. And then there's also more people who've addressed this today, that no agreements are perfect. You can't get all the benefits. It happens that you also have to take some of the disadvantages. The EEA Agreement is not perfect, but it is good, and it has been good for Norway. It has been good for Norway in terms of workers’ rights. It has strengthened the rights of workers in many areas. It ensures a level playing field and a level playing field within Europe. It has been good for Norwegian companies. Europe is 80 pst. by the market for Norwegian holdings. Norwegian jobs depend on access to the European market. Thinking that it would be inconsequential for Norway to terminate the EEA Agreement is quite serious. It would have serious consequences for Norwegian companies and Norwegian workers if the agreement had been terminated, as the representative wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1075	As I did not get an answer to my question, I see that I have to repeat it. Does the Council of State consider that there are examples of Norwegian law or regulation for employment, collective agreements or ILO conventions that have had to give way to EU rules, and what consequences should there be if the answer is yes?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1080	Yes, there are examples of Norwegian laws and regulations that have had to give way. There's no doubt about it. There is now a case in progress in these days, the so-called yard case, where ESA has just pointed out that elements of an agreement are contrary to the EEA Agreement, and there is also the background that the parties that own the agreement are now looking at how they can obtain their collective bargaining agreement in line with the EEA Agreement. So there is no doubt that there are cases where Norwegian laws and regulations have been contrary to the EEA Agreement and have had to give up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1085	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1092	I would like to start by thanking the Council of State for the last time she said, in connection with the line from Kirsti Bergstø, where the Council of State was honest – thank you – and pointed out that the court judgment implies that the decision of the Supreme Court has been overturned by ESA. It's about diet and lodging, it's about the economic consequences that I've been told to be able to account for about 100 kroner per hour, whether the Supreme Court gets right, or whether ESA gets right. This is a judgment that is very likely to have an infectious effect on other industries. We are well aware in the Center Party that it has been run by the Norwegian Industry at Stein Lier-Hansen here, which has caused serious unrest in other NHO associations, in construction and installations, for example, for what is the contagion effect of it. This is a very demanding case, which has been dealt with at the highest level within the working life, at the highest level within the government, and therefore I am very pleased that the Council of State now admits that it has been dealt with at the highest level because it meant that ESA overrides Norwegian Supreme Court. That's our main example of promoting this in line with the position of the LO Congress. Interestingly, neither the Party of Advancement, the Left, nor the Christian People's Party are taking the floor in this debate. It's a little bit real, but it's not random. The right is talking about the proposal undermining the purpose. That's on the firing range what we call a record bomb. If you had not had the EEA Agreement, you would not have had crime, it would be interpreted as meaning the Centre Party. Yes, I'm going to promise you that we're sure we would have, but the EEA agreement makes it much more difficult to fight crime here. Finally, I would just like to say that the EEA Agreement involves duty-free access to the EU. But it also had one through the trade agreement. So what is being said here is that one must have the EEA Agreement because of duty-free access, we must soon have a debate on it in this Chamber, because it is a history description that is incorrect and takes away the main argument of the EEA members for this – a main argument that is used to accept that in the field of working life, Norwegian Supreme Court is being devalued in relation to ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1101	I had actually not intended to withdraw the debate by taking the floor, but as the representative Lundteg said in his speech that it was 'a little real' of the Left not to participate, so I would like to participate. But what makes these debates somewhat demanding is that the representatives of the Central Party and SV are on a completely different level from the rest of the Stortinget – for the simple reason that the Central Party and SV are against the whole EEA Agreement. They want him away. They are against Schengen. They are – as I see it – in principle against the fact that we are going to have trade cooperation with other countries, where you can have common rules that are enforced by a common body – and that is what we have. However, when one speaks of ESA ‘overarching’ it and that the EFTA Court ‘determines’ this, this is not an EU body. This is an entity that comes out of the EFTA Agreement, of the EEA Agreement, an organisation in which Norway is a member. If you disagree that there should be an enforcement of the common standard that has been agreed upon and that is agreed in the Norwegian Storing, and that it should be interpreted by someone, yes, then it is a little difficult to find some kind of common ground here. I would warn in very strong order against this dream that one should leave international cooperation and that one should sit back alone without cooperating with others. What do we see when we raise our eyes a little bit? What is the most difficult thing for the United Kingdom when they are now negotiating to leave the EU? Yeah, it's finding common conflict resolution mechanisms. There is a clear demand from the EU, but it is difficult for the United Kingdom, and one will have to have a common conflict resolution mechanism, otherwise one will not be able to have common rules. And what's going on with Switzerland? Yes, they sit and negotiate exactly the same thing with the EU. The proposal now on the table is that one should actually be subject to the EU Court of Justice, where Switzerland is not a member, and not the EFTA Court, where Norway and Switzerland are members. I believe that the Centre Party and the SV must take the consequences of their own policies, which are that if one does not want any form of joint decision-making body, common courts and joint control, then neither can one have this kind of modern free trade agreement, which is so important to Norwegian businesses in the city and country. That is why it is a little difficult to have a constructive debate here today. But luckily, there's an overwhelming plurality in this room that is completely inconsistent with the Center Party and SV's principle approach to these kinds of questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1115	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1120	It is rare that I hear so much disinformation in such a short time from Stortinget's pulpit. I can repeat it: it is rare that I hear so much disinformation in such a short time from the Great Council. The centre party is against the EEA Agreement, yes, but we are in favour of trade cooperation. Of course we are. Of course, we are in favour of commercial obligations; we are in favour of international agreements with the necessary courts and legislation to ensure that they are followed up. What we are talking about here is about Norwegian collective agreements and Norwegian labour law must take precedence over the EU. That's the question -- yes or no. The centre party and SV are for it to take precedence. This would mean that, if necessary, a renegotiation of the EEA Agreement would be necessary if it was not possible. It's the core, it's the decision of the LO Congress, and it's the Center Party and SV agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1127	The SV and the Central Party are in complete agreement on this, and that's because Norwegian collective agreements and the way we have regulated this, are of the main distribution mechanisms of power and money in society. It is this that has built the Norwegian society. The representative Rotevatn refers to international agreements and dispute resolution mechanisms. Then I want to remind you that in terms of trade, there are sanctions, and I understand that it has to be. It also wants – trade agreements and, of course, dispute resolution mechanisms and possible sanctions. However, in the case of employee rights, e.g.: The ILO Conventions are the only ones that take place in those areas, ‘shaming and blaring’. There is not a single mechanism that can punish a country that even violates completely basic ILO conventions, i.e. rights for workers and their protection. It shows how this imbalance is all-round in international contractual works, where the interests of workers are protected only by the will, strength and ability of politicians to have it as a fundamental principle and not by violence, while trade is protected by the possibility of sanctions against the authorities. Then the imbalance is strong. We also see this when we now see the interest in ‘spackle’ — or at least rodent — in Norwegian workers’ rights. We've seen that in a number of ways. Some of the strangest thing is that some people are trying to say that we are totally dependent on the EEA Agreement for example. to have strong rules against the use of temporary employment agencies and temporary employment agencies. We don't have to. We can impose all the sanctions we want to impose in this area. The problem is when these agreements prevent us from doing what we want and protecting what Norwegian workers have negotiated in free negotiations, and about which politicians have been supporting because we believe that this is so crucial. Now we've discussed social dumping before here. Yes, shall we allow this legislation to prevent us from stopping the serious crime that destroys serious businesses and destroys the pay and working conditions of workers in this country? SV means no. That's the reason for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1144	The representative, Lundtägen, said that he rarely heard any disinformation from Stortinget's pulpit as much as I did in my post. As the representative Lundteg himself uses to say, it is strong to the right. But then one would also expect that it was possible to give one example of what I said was wrong. One should expect it, but there wasn't one – there wasn't one example. So I'd rather answer by saying that rarely have I heard someone so that they go up on the pulpit as a lion and then fall down like a skin trap. I posted to the representative Andersen, on the other hand, thought I was very interesting, and it is because it is with respect not to report a hang-up. On the one hand, regrets the existence of sanctioning mechanisms and dispute resolution mechanisms in the EEA Agreement, and on the other hand calls for a sanctioning mechanism for ILO conventions, i.e. a form of transnational sanctioning of compliance. I would like to discuss that – that may make sense. But the fact that one should be so for supranational governance when it comes to ILO conventions, and then, when it comes to EEA legislation, on some kind of principle, is not consistent.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1151	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1167	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1176	Let me start by thanking the proposers for raising an important issue, and also thanking the Cooperation Committee on the matter. It is, as we all know, a well-known case that there is a major difference in Norwegian policy between those who believe that the market for welfare services should be opened up to private providers far more than today, and those who believe that in the core areas of the welfare state, such as health, school and care for the elderly, there should be good public services that cover all, and that such basic welfare services should not be privatised or commercialised. But regardless of what we think about privatisation of public services, I assume that everyone can agree that it is a welfare problem for the individual worker who, in connection with the outsourcing and privatisation of the job, feels that pension rights are being reduced, or disappears completely. We have seen several concrete examples of this happening so soon before retirement that the employee has in practice not had the opportunity to secure old age in another way. The performance rules for AFP in the private sector include, inter alia: made public employees who get the job privatised shortly before they turn 62, not only lose a lot of money, but actually lose the opportunity to retire, as they had planned. The proposal put forward in this case aims to do something about this, both to prevent the loss of the AFP and also to limit the loss of pension entitlements. In order to prevent the emergence of more people in the same situation, the proposers ask that the Storting should submit proposals for the necessary legislative changes to ensure that employees are entitled to retain at least the same good pension benefits as before the privatisation and outsourcing of public activities. For example, it has been shown that some occupational groups, such as nurses and pharmacists, already have such rights. There are also examples that individual municipalities have chosen to compensate former employees over their own budget, because they had not actually been aware of the impact that privatisation could have on employees. In its examination of the matter, the Committee asked the State Council to comment on the proposal. She points out that although examples of the opposite are available, occupational retirement provision schemes are, however, relatively unusual in Norway. The Council of State recommends that individual activities should continue to determine the occupational pension scheme to which employees should be subject, while at the same time disclosing that there is work to adapt public service pensions to the pension reform, including the design of the legislation of the AFP. The Committee also held consultations on the matter. Two LO Federations, one YS Federation and the Pensioners Association met. They expressed all great concern about the pressure on existing pension schemes, the opportunities available to some employers to free themselves from contractual pension obligations through tariff hopping and in the event of the loss of AFP rights, disability and survivors' pensions, low retirement pension savings, loss of special age limits and reduced value of acquired rights in the event of forced change by the employer. They also pointed to the competitive advantage of private enterprises in terms of lower pay and employment. It was shown that the adaptation of public service pension to pension reform will not solve all problems either. In this picture, the problems also include the ideal, non-commercial service providers dealing with their historical pension costs of 1.7 billion. kr, which the Council of State also refers to in its letter to the Committee. It appears from the opinion that the Committee is divided into views on how the Storting should deal with the proposal, i.e. no consensus in the Committee on this matter. The majority – Right, Advance Party and Left – emphasise harmonisation of pension schemes in order to remove barriers to mobility between the public and private sectors and refer to the State Council’s presentation of ongoing work. The minority – the Workers’ Party, the Centre’s Party and the SV – are more impatient and believe that consideration for public sector employees who lose earned pensions on a competitive basis suggests that the government should give the matter a high priority, and therefore suggests that the government should promote necessary changes in the laws that ensure employees at least as good retirement benefits as before when the job is privatised. The minority proposal in the case from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, I regard it as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1195	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1200	I thank the case rapporteur for a good introduction and good work on this matter. The representative Lise Christoffersen began his speech by saying that there is an ideological distinction in this matter, considering those who want others other than the public to also provide good welfare services. It may well be that the representative Lise Christoffersen and other red-green politicians view it as an ideological distinction. Personally, I have to admit that I think of it more as a practical distinction. It's about what you think is most important. Is it the quality of service you think is most important, or is it who delivers what you think is most important? That's what this is about. The red-greens have to call it an ideological difference, but it has to be because they have their ideological skyscrapers on this question. That's why you see that, for example. in my municipality of residence, Oslo, the City Council is now working to re-communalise successful private institutions. There is nothing to say to the Red-Green City Council in Oslo whether the service that is provided is of high quality – there is evidence that it has. But it's a problem that it's private – that's why you have to re-communalize it. Talk about ideological skyscrapers. Then we are also concerned that, in the event of the outsourcing of services, the pay and working conditions of employees should of course be respected. It says itself. It is true that Christoffersen says in relation to professional occupational pension schemes — the usual practice has been to allow individual businesses to decide for themselves which occupational pension scheme the employees should be covered by. We believe that this is an important principle. At the same time, we are aware that some of the problems are the difference between public and private pensions. That is why the government is working to adapt public occupational pension schemes to the pension reform. It's an important job. I think the Council of State explains well in its letter about the progress of that work, and I look forward to getting further there, but making an impression that the red-green side is more impatient than the bourgeois side of this question, is clearly not right.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1209	It's obvious that we're in the middle of the election campaign. This representative proposal also strongly suggests that the opposition needs to tell its version of reality. I say ‘its version’, because there is little evidence that the proposal for a representative addresses a real issue. A basic premise for the proposal is that it is clearly unfavorable for employees of public undertakings to follow up on a tender. It's proven to be wrong. I myself have been a local politician in cases where we have exposed more services to competition. In some cases it meant better pay and working conditions for employees, in some places it was the same, and in some places it was worse. So it is not clear, as the proposal claims. Public service pensions and private pension schemes are fundamentally different, and then it is also completely wrong to try to find out transitional arrangements and prevent distortions arising between the two systems, because the only thing that really helps is to make the two systems more similar. For this reason, I believe that public service pension must be adapted to the pension reform. Only then will we get rid of any unfortunate results for some employees. It is also an important element here that many public occupational pension schemes increase the unforeseeability of businesses. In some cases, changes in the composition of employees may result in an increase in pension costs. This is what we see, for example. with the high pension costs now experienced by the Norwegian Opera. As the Council of State writes in its reply, changes in public service pensions are being worked on, and there is no secret that social partners are now holding the key to solving this important challenge. The rapporteur said something that I fully agree with, that welfare services in school, care and health should be accessible to everyone. The rapporteur is trying to present it as if there were anyone in this Chamber who disagreed with it. That's wrong. All parties in this room want us to have good, tax-funded welfare services in school, care and health. The difference here in this Chamber I think is ideological, so there I disagree with the representative Heggelund and actually agree with the representative Christoffersen that this is an ideological distinction. Do you want to use all the good forces that have something to do with it? The party of progress is a member of it. The Labour Party seems to be laying down on a socialist line, where they do not want a diversity of services. The Labour Party wants to go back to the policy it had in the past, where it was thought that all people needed exactly the same services, regardless of the individual's needs. It is an ideological view of the Workers' Party that the Progress Party does not share. We think it's good that we have schools that might have a little bit of different ways of teaching children. We think it is good that we have nursing homes that may be somewhat different, so that the individual elderly person should be able to choose which offer you want to use. Not least, this is good for employees, because it's interesting that when we talk about the pay challenges, about the differences between women and men, for example, we see that in public welfare services, the pay level is too often low. Some reason is that the employees have no opportunity to choose another employer. You don't want to compete for the employees. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that having a diversity of services, having competition, is good for both individual users and employees. I started from the fact that I think it is clear that the election campaign is going on, and it would have been tempting to say that the Workers' Party has several leaders who have used private services themselves when they have wanted it for themselves and their own. We believe it is good that all people should have the opportunity to make that choice themselves – including the employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1224	There is an interesting issue raised by the proposers – the issue of competitive outsourcing and that pension can become a balancing item in the question of who is to be awarded a tender, because that is what constitutes the difference in dollars and ears. There's something we know from a lot of local debates. I agree that the first bid now must be to clarify the public service pension in the future, and then we will see how it might solve some of the challenges described in the proposal. I also note that the report from the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre states that the proposal for a representative is supported. Obviously, then it's a question of what you really want. Do you want an investigation, or do you want real decisions? To me, it's a little bit unclear what you're really asking the government to do. But there is one point which, unfortunately, cannot be overlooked and which would be a major problem if this proposal were actually adopted. That's how to deal with the ideal institutions. Through the cooperation that the four parties have had in this period, we have received a public investigation to resolve the historical pension costs of the non-profit sector. There I will give praise to the government for the follow-up so far. There is now a concrete basis to ensure that the heavy back pocket that the historic pension costs have been can be facilitated. That is the challenge of this proposal, because it is said that the same institutions are now to be imposed on pension obligations over which they are not in control at all. Then you repeat the problem we've had for many, many years now. I understand that the intention is good, but it is impossible for us to vote in favour of a proposal that will in reality mean that the non-profit sector, which has had big enough challenges as it is, could once again be charged with pension costs that they have no control over, and which would in reality lead many of them not to enter into the business that I really think everyone is concerned with that we need more of, namely the non-profit sector into care.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1237	I would like to thank SV for addressing the issue of equal pension conditions as before, regardless of the form of operation, when tendering for public sector activities, to private individuals. The central party is of the opinion that there should be no competition for a pension, that is what should be the basis for competition. I would say to the representative of the Christian People's Party that the Christian People's Party agrees that different pension schemes should not be used as part of the basis on which you compete. What has happened in the past, in relation to the situation today, is a question that needs to be clarified, i.e. how to deal with the commitments that are. The proposal is that the Storting should ask the Government to propose the necessary legislative changes to ensure equivalent pension schemes irrespective of the type of operation, i.e. that, in the same way as collective agreements are in place with regard to pay and working conditions, which should be equal regardless of the type of company, regardless of whether you are employed in limited liability companies, non-profit institutions or in the public sector, there should be equivalent common rules for this. I also thought the Christian People's Party agreed. That is at least the basic position of the Centre Party: it is not on the basis of which one or the other tender is to be selected. Who wins the tender is related to the level of ability to organise the business, so that it is possible to provide a better or less qualitative or economic offer. The centre party has a pragmatic view of what is to be done by public, non-profit and private organisations. Obviously, this is ideology. But our ideology is that we use the entire range of public, ideal and private, while there are different tasks that need to be solved, and it would be to different degrees natural to use either the public, the ideal or the private. For us, it is perfectly obvious that in health and care it is the public and the ideal that should be used, and that there is no provision for listed companies to be responsible for such activities. But the essence of the matter here today is the question of using pension schemes as an instrument to facilitate either private or public activities. We don't want to do that in the Center Party. That is why we fully support proposal No. 1 which is the proposal of the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1248	I would like to start by thanking the President-in-Office, Lise Christoffersen, for very good work. So I'm going to answer the question the representative Syversen asked in his post about what they thought was the intention behind the wording of the proposal. It is simply a careful rewording to not lock us into the nursing system as the only possible model. The aim of the proposal is clear and clear. That is to prevent the loss of pensions by privatisation and outsourcing, because we see that on a large scale for those involved. This is a matter of much greater topicality when it comes to promoting privatisation policies by government teams and in blue municipalities. We have a situation with a government saying there is no difference between welfare services and other services. When the representative of Wiborg says that there is a consensus that tax-funded welfare schemes should be in place, it is okay, but there is no consensus that tax money should end up in tax havens. It is the situation today that there are large market mechanisms and driving forces in the welfare sector that the government wants to support and contribute to. The representative Heggelund talked about public and private, but one should rather talk about commercial and ideals, because the situation in child protection, kindergartens and in several areas is that the big ones buy up the small ones. The commercial buys up the ideals. Although the industry tries to encapsulate welfare professionals as entrepreneurs in the welfare sector, etc., it is a competitive policy that is promoted and that causes people to lose wages, pensions and working conditions. That is what the tendering policy is. The brutal element of competition desired in the public sector is a pure ideology based on the fact that when government employees perform a task, it is a cost item, while when private people do it, with lower wages, lower pensions and lower employment, it is value creation. It is not without reason that we are promoting the proposal, because a study carried out by the Norwegian Nurses' Association during the previous municipal government period shows that the majority of the local government representatives from the Right and the Progress Party believe that it is perfectly right that private individuals win tenders when it occurs in the event of a deterioration in pay, pension and working conditions. There is nothing to suggest that policy has changed, and there is nothing to suggest that attitudes are different here in the United Kingdom. The examples of workers affected by such a policy, and the basic vision contained therein, are many. Health professionals feel that the nursing home they work for is privatized just before they should leave the AFP, and thus they lose their right to it, even if the need for it for a worn-out body is equal. According to the Trade Union, many employees lose million in future pension payments when jobs are outsourced. So the huge loss in the economy for the individual can be enormous. Then it is hoped that the public will go in and compensate for the loss, as we have seen that it has happened in Oslo, Austevoll and elsewhere. We can't have it that way. SV seems to be completely unreasonable with the pensioner as a result of privatisation. That's why we're going to make the necessary changes. We are taking this initiative through the proposal. This is because we want to ensure that workers are a worthy old age, even where the privatisation tool has been great. I am very pleased that we are on the red-green side of the proposal today, that we stand together to recognise the problem, and that we are proposing improvements for them. Then the representative of Wiborg would like to talk about this being about election fighting. This is about policies that SV promotes throughout the year, regardless of whether it is a choice or not. But if Wiborg thinks it's a good campaign case, he might consider turning this case around today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1261	The representatives of Storting Karin Andersen, Kirsti Bergstø and Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik have made a proposal asking the government to make the necessary legislative changes that ensure equivalent pension schemes, irrespective of the type of operation – they refer to the Nursing Scheme – and that guarantee employees the right to maintain at least as good retirement benefits as before, in the case of privatisation and outsourcing of public tasks, activities and support functions, such as: cleaning services. The proposers ask the government to propose legislative changes to ensure that employees have a specific type of occupational pension scheme, irrespective of where they are employed. The objective is to ensure that employees are allowed to maintain a specific pension scheme or pension level when public tasks are privatised or tendered. The starting point for occupational pension schemes in Norway is that they are activity-based, i.e. that the plan applies to one entity and to the employees of the entity. There are a few exceptions to the business-based pension schemes. For example, as the proposers mention, there are separate pension schemes for nurses and pharmacists. These are historically conditional and were passed in the 1950s and 1960s. They therefore do not represent the current organisation of occupational pension schemes. There may be large pension costs. In the government's view, it is unfortunate if the government is to impose costs on private enterprises in addition to those resulting from compulsory occupational retirement provision. The Act on compulsory occupational retirement provision of 2006 requires private enterprises to have an occupational pension scheme for their employees. The size has laid down framework laws for private occupational retirement provision with tax-friendly treatment. Within these frameworks, activities have great flexibility and can provide good pension schemes for their employees, adapted to the economic capacity and competitiveness of individual undertakings. Cross-border pension schemes will relieve the activities of some control over pension costs. Activities are, of course, also free to agree more closely with individual pension schemes with employee organisations. A regulatory requirement for employers on cross-cutting arrangements, as proposed by the representatives, reduces the flexibility of enterprises and a breach of the principle of self-determination in the Norwegian labour market model. I agree that in the case of privatisation and deferrals of public services, provision should be made for the proper provision of workers covered by the amendments. There are also good opportunities within today's legislation, without the right of access to such an important issue for businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1276	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1282	I noticed that the Council of State said that she felt it was unreasonable to impose private pension obligations in addition to the compulsory occupational pension law. Then maybe we can start the line change by stating that with the Right in the Council chair there will not be any discussion about any improvements in compulsory occupational pension during the period that comes. The council gets to correct me if it's wrong. We criticize the government for breaking up discussions with employees' organisations on the convergence of public and private occupational pensions, because it is a matter that is really urgent and that is over-mature. It happened at a time when one had almost reached an agreement, but we have never quite got to grips with what it was that caused the discussions to collapse. Could the Council of State tell us about it now? What really was the reason for the breakup of the discussions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1289	There's no secret what happened, it's well and fully mentioned in the media. We came to a disagreement, quite simply, about how the final process was to be completed, and how it was to be anchored. I was on my side concerned that the organisations would clearly anchor the process in their organisations, but there was disagreement about how it was to be done. At the same time, we still have the process. We have had several meetings where we have further investigated some of the issues that the report that the parties and the government had prepared together had not resolved, both several clarifications and several clarifications. We have agreed that the process will end in the autumn of 2017. I feel that there is good cooperation between the government and the organisations. There's a lot of will to find a solution, and I think we're also going to be ready for the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1294	Thanks for the answer. There the Council of State actually answered some of the questions I was asking on my next question, but for the record, it says in the letter to the Committee that the Council of State aims to initiate a final process in the autumn of 2017, but as the Council of State answered now, it seems that that initiative has already been taken, and that the process is underway. Then I change my question to this: When does the Council of State intend to present a case on this to the Stortinget? Then we can forget that we have a choice in the meantime, because one probably plans for eternity as long as one sits there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1299	Yes, it is well that one should plan with eternity's perspective for the eye, but be prepared to go on the day. I guess that's what's our lot. Yes, we still have the process, as I said, especially by clarifying some of the issues that were not already settled. I have also replied to the organisations that I am going to take an initiative to continue the process right over the summer. So, of course, I'm going to do what I can to win the election, and I'm going to be the one who's allowed to unload this in port. My plan is that it can be done in the autumn of 2017. Then we're going to discuss further with the parties how we're going to end the process. When we discussed it last and did not get into the goal, it was also because when this was done last, it ended up a late night with the national broker, after what I understood, so no one else has recommended me to repeat that process once more. Recommendations have gone to find another way to solve it, because pension issues are so complicated. But I see that there is a great deal of will in the organizations, in the government, and not least here on the Stortinget, so I think we'll find a solution to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1310	This issue is about political value issues. That's why I have two questions for the Council of State. Does the Council of State believe that public servants — auxiliary workers, health professionals, cleaners and renovation workers — have too high a pension and should fall into retirement? And does she think it's more important that tax money is used for investment funds placed in tax havens? That's where the money for cuts in the pension ends up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1315	I understand that the premise here is that public money goes to tax havens. I am concerned that when public services are to be offered, it should be because it is believed that they will be carried out in a better way, either because the task is to be solved differently, because it offers diversity in the sector or otherwise. I believe that it is the individual enterprise that has to determine the pay and pension conditions applicable in each enterprise, simply because it is so crucial to the carrying capacity of the enterprise, if the conditions given are within the Norwegian law and collective agreement or otherwise. The nature and requirements of pension agreements are regulated by Norwegian law and the Labour Environment Act also provides a framework for occupational pension schemes to be applied in the event of transfer of activities. So it's not a legitimate room, it's today rules on how to do this. Then I have great faith that serious employers who are to provide public services also offer their employees good pay and pension conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1324	I did not get an answer to my question. Policy is also to contribute to the distribution of money – and I ask again: Does the Council of State think that employees help nurses, cleaners, renovation workers, people working in the public sector and who are the workers in health care have too good pensions? Is it more important that international investment companies located in tax havens benefit from Norwegian tax money and welfare in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1329	Do I think they have too good a pension? Indeed, the reason for putting forward tenders is not because employees have too good a pension. There may be entirely different reasons for choosing to outsource public services. In the event of a call for tenders, those who place the service on the invitation to tender may even include the terms and conditions of remuneration and of employment in the contracts. The municipality of Oslo is mentioned in the proposal, and how this was resolved when the call for tender was to be made for nursing homes. I set myself as a member of the City Council who changed the pension conditions to ensure good working conditions for employees in the event of a call for tender to a nursing home. So it's completely possible to do it today. However, the point is that when it comes to outsourcing or transferring services to others, it is wrong for public authorities to say that private activities should have a particular type of occupational pension. It must be up to the enterprise itself to decide on the economy in which it operates and on the agreements concluded with its employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1334	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1341	This case is about a very important value question. Commercialisation of welfare services gives rise to increased differences, and that is SV against. Low-paid employees get less, while owners and managers get more. It means that SV contributes to increased differences, and we are against it because we know that increased differences are not good for society or for individuals. You have to ask the two questions that I now tried to ask the Council of State, and that she would not answer, namely: Do we believe that the heroes in care – the help nurses, the health professionals and the cleaners – have too good a pension? Because that's what it's all about to compete for when commercial players come in. Commercial actors are commercial, the store is the store, and that's okay. If you drive a store, you have to make money. You're looking to minimize your expenses. And then it's about retirement and partly also pay. Many examples have shown that. So someone here says there are some examples that are different. Yes, it is, but if you had adopted the proposal here, it wouldn't be a problem, because you'd still be able to do something better. The question is to lay a floor you should not go under. This is a bad distribution of money. The second question is this is tax money we have paid in. The tax money we pay and grant for the protection of children, the care of the elderly and the public sector is to go to the business. This isn't a store, and it's the ideological dividing line between SV and Right and the Progress Party, which thinks everything can be a store. Then it goes against the employees. I have asked before about some of those who believe this, will be with me away at home and see the help nurses in their eyes and say that they serve too much and have too good a pension. For the time being, no one has wanted it. We have a great need in the future to get many sensible, competent, caring people to choose to work in the care of the elderly, to want to contribute to the cleanness of society and the important societal tasks to be solved in the public sector. Thanks to them, they should not be cut in the pension and a fist from a tender. We need to take care of our employees, and we need to recruit a lot more. SV is for smaller differences, therefore we are opposed to the commercialisation of welfare services, and this proposal is involved in doing something about it, if you are to commercialise, at least in terms of equivalent relationships for employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1356	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 7 and 8 are dealt with as a whole, and it is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1385	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1394	This is a matter with which the Stortinget is well-known, and which has been the subject of our discussions both in the context of the budgetary procedure last autumn and through a series of written questions to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. It's for good reason, because there's a matter that has a lot of weight out there, with a lot of people who have signed up, and many people who have made contact with both Nav and us people elected, and who are uncertain about what's going on after Nav gave up the practice of sending slippers on paper once a month. The exposure has also been expressed in two Documents 8 proposals from the respective SV and the Center Party, which we are now dealing with wisely. The committee's response is that there has been a great deal of commitment around this, with a lot of contact with Nav, but that this is now more back at a normal level. There is probably no doubt that many people have experienced what is demanding to change after Nav gave up his practice. Not everyone has a computer, not everyone is on the Internet, and many have probably also been unsure about what one is going to get in the post, and what is no longer in the post. A part of the discussion about the committee position and otherwise in the debate has been what should be regarded as important post, where at least those who wish to go the longest in the committee position, that is, the minority, mean that one should classify the monthly broadcast as important post, and that it should therefore go out on paper to all those who have not registered as digital users. On the one hand, you can understand that, too many people want things on paper, and they want a good overview. On the other hand, what is being sent out is not something that leads to changes in someone's private economy. It's just a matter of repeating it one month ago about what one gets paid. It's good that Nav digitizes. We're facing a future where there's a lot of pressure on public services because more people are going to benefit from them, and then it's important that Nav runs as efficiently as possible. At the same time, a person can have an audacity for the fact that, although more and more people in society are online, not everyone is, and everyone should have an equal supply. What a number of members of the Committee have gathered on is a proposal asking the government to address the extent to which this is actually a problem. The reason for that is that, as I mentioned, at the beginning of the conversion, we saw that there was a huge movement, but that one now is completely back on a normal level. The question is really whether one has managed to change out there, or whether people have just given up complaining. It's important to find out, so we know that there's a reason to implement the budgetary priorities it might be going back to old practice. In this case, it will lead to a good deal of additional expenditure. It is possible that one will take those expenses, but one will have to return to the State budget treatment of the cottage. That's the proposal that the plural has now set up, and that the left is also behind. I'm assuming that the minority is going to do something for their eyesight.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1411	That society is digitizing is good. Manual tasks may be solved by machinery and the workforce may be used for other types of tasks. We need more people at school, at home and working with young people who need help to get into work. But I think we have to realize that digitalization doesn't hit everybody. Many older people are not involved in the development, others have neither a PC nor knowledge of the digital world, and some do not even have broadband connectivity. We have to take that into account. Many pensioners feel that it is not taken into account when the government will no longer send the payment slip for the monthly pension in the post. The working party believes that this is wrong. Yeah, we're going to digitize, but it's going to be possible to make a reservation. It was a prerequisite when the Stoltenberg government facilitated the extensive digitisation of the public sector. State Council Hauglie explains that this has been bypassed by defining the pension benefit as a non-important document. It's wrong in our opinion. And then we hear that you're going to get rid of it when there's been some changes. But there is a big exception to that: it does not apply when there is G regulation or new tax card. So there are some changes that come very rarely to people when you're not even going to get it when there's been actual changes. From the Labour Party we believe that this is wrong. We are going to vote in favour of proposals to get back the slip. We make money available in the revised national budget to get it done. We make enough money available in the revised national budget to get it done. But it's not like everyone is going to start getting into the post, just the ones asking for it. I don't think we need any big computations to figure out a reasonable number. The council says there are not so many, so neither can it be so expensive. The Labour Party is involved in proposals that also say that we now need to evaluate what has happened, evaluate the scheme. It is still on Nav's websites that, as a social security beneficiary, you are responsible for the proper tax deduction of the pay-out from Nav. How in the world should one be when neither the pension has changed nor the tax card has changed? Then it must be that rule does not apply to payments where people have no longer been released. I think the Council of State could confirm that the information on Nav's website is no longer valid, because you can't get any access to it. I think the state council, like the rest of us, has been getting quite dubious enquiries from some pensioners who live abroad. At least they tend to have great care for the Progress Party. But they're totally dependent on getting this information when they're going to charge their withholding tax, and they have to have it every month because the currency is fluctuating. But neither do they, and then German, Malaysian, Filipino, or Spanish authorities must be in telephone contact with Nav. Because it's not the social security recipient who can confirm that the number is correct. It goes without saying that this is quite hopeless. We're going to be in favour of a proposal where you're going to review this, and I think everyone should agree, because this is a very serious matter. We believe that now the council must turn around and come back and say that the pensioners and others who do not have the opportunity to accept the social security benefit digitally will get it in the post office, as before. I think we owe it to those who get a pension, and I think it's taking pensioners and others seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1428	Online services shall be the general rule for administrative communication with both residents and businesses. This is confirmed in the eManagement Regulation § 9 and is an important principle of the government’s digitalisation strategy. As a consequence of this strategy, the Directorate-General for Labour and Welfare changed the payment information procedures and is now sending information about payments digitally to those receiving pensions, disability benefits, redundancy payments, action payments and additional benefits. Instead of getting this payout gap in the post, they now get the information digitally on Your Nav. We are aware that there were some enquiries and dissatisfaction, especially from the pensioners, in connection with the liquidation of the payment slip on paper in the post office, and the Pensioners Association has engaged in the matter. They indicate that there are many older people who still want to get this payment slip on paper because they do not handle the PC and digital media as well and do not have access to the Internet. It is clear that it is a transition for many people not to get the fixed drop in the post, but very many people have relatives or other neighbors who can help them if they want to get a print. The social security and the pension come to the account as before. Although many older people do not have a PC, there are also very many of them who actually handle mobile phones and have experience in following up on the account using telephone and mobile phone, on the account phone. According to Nav, requests for pensions have also decreased. There are no more enquiries today than before the conversion. Nav has gone out with a lot of information and offers of guidance in digital competence around the municipalities, and users who do not have a PC can contact Nav Kontaktsenter and get the payment details read out. They may also, in special cases, receive printing of this payment message when they need it for a documentation, loan application or other. There are many people who are sceptical about getting everything digital, and therefore it is possible to reserve themselves against receiving important letters digitally if you want it on paper in the mail. Digi has established a common register of digital contact information and reservation status of residents. The right of reservation includes what we call important messages, see. Article 9 of the administrative regulation. Important messages are then individual decisions, advance notices under Section 16 of the Administrative Act, other communications relevant to his legal position and to the handling of cases, and communications which, for other reasons, are of particular importance to ensure that he receives. Monthly payment messages that do not contain new information compared to the previous month’s payment message are not defined as an important message and are therefore not sent on paper in the mail to those who have reserved. However, the State of Labour and Welfare will always send letters as an important message if the performance changes beyond regulation and rate changes. The annual task is such an important message and will be sent in the mail to those who have reserved. The Government believes that the Nav digitisation process must continue. If it is opened up to exceptions, it will involve significant costs for the State of Labour and Welfare. The annual cost of which we have been informed has been estimated at approx. Thirty million. kr if the monthly payment slip is to be sent to the pensioners on paper in the mail. In the newspaper in the executive position a few days ago, there was a clear message to us politicians. It was referred to the Perspective Communication, where the main message is clear and clear: if we continue as today, public expenditure will increase faster than revenue by 2030. The leader expressed astonishment at how little politicians take into account the seriousness of the situation. Public budgets escalate, and rhetoric and rationale are completely out of proportion. It will include, among others: referenced to this case on the pension slip on paper with a price tag of 30 million. kr per year. This case has suddenly become, I feel, an important campaign case for individual parties, and there are strong points of view that emerge. I just want to show you what, among other things. The leader of the Centre Party writes in a Document 8 proposal on the conversion to digital pay slip: ‘Unfortunately, such behaviour could destroy the lives of individual citizens all the time when their quality of life could be dramatically degraded as unrealistic and remote closures are established by the authorities for no good reason.’ I have to say it's lubricating tightly, and I agree with the newspaper's manager's comment that there is no life that is ruined by pensioners getting the pension slip electronically. The most important thing for pensioners must be that they get the payment they require, that it comes into the account on the day of the month in which it is due and that the amount is decent and worth living. It may not be vital to have the same amount confirmed in writing by post month after month. It must keep a written notification when the amount of the payment is changed, as the system has been set up. I want to refer to the majority position and to the Rotevatn statement, which is at the right's back.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1454	You're supposed to have been poorly followed in the class if you haven't realized that this is a matter that gives rise to a lot of commitment, and I would also say a legitimate commitment, because many older people dislike that they're no longer going to receive pension slips in letter mail. Fortunately, this does not apply to everyone, but although older people are becoming more and more skilled at using digital tools, there are still many older people who are not as good at and comfortable at using it. When the decision was taken to stop the release of pension slips, it was not well enough to inform everyone that changes would still come on paper. It may not have been taken into account enough to allow all the pensioners who want to print to receive it, or to be able to read the information. The solution is simple. It is to give the individual pensioner the opportunity to decide what you want and what you need, and it can and should be done in an unbureaucratic and simple dialogue with Nav. The Progress Party is clear that Nav must show flexibility to those of its users who ask for the printing of, or whether, their pension. In fact, many people need regular letters in the post office to feel safe that they get the pension they're going to. After the conversion of the Nav routines, sending out payment messages in the mail is essentially over. Everyone can see their payout information on Your Nav on Nav.no. Those who cannot use your Nav can call the Nav Contact Center and get the payment information read out. But it's still so that the payments come as normal. When there are changes in the payments, the information will appear in the record. It shall also be such as to enable printing to be sent in special cases. Cases that have been raised are pensioners who live abroad and who need to be able to refer to written documentation there. They will have a legitimate reason, and they will also have the print. Too often, though, we hear about individuals who stick their heads in a bureaucratic wall at Nav. Many are simply not comfortable with computers and the new digital world. They're asking Nav to print for their own security. For the Progress Party, it is simply so that Nav exists for the users and not the other way around. That's why we're glad that the Grand Council recently concluded that she 'has asked Nav to be flexible and to follow up on this, so that people get the information they need'. Here we have to make sure that Nav follows up and shows the flexibility requested by the Council of State. The country's pensioners shall not be fed off with half-poor answers from bureaucrats. That's why I'm very happy that the majority here today decides that we want an investigation of how much this need really is. I was also at the country's meeting with LOP, the National Pensioners' League, a few days ago. Then this became a big issue, and there were several people who wanted to get the pay slip back, but there were also others who suggested that they did not need it. Then it is good that we can now get the facts on the table, that the government should find out how much need is initially, and then you will be able to decide when to deal with the state budget. That is when we get back to it, and the attitude of the Progress Party is clear: we want maximum flexibility, so that those who need it, of course, get the pay cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1471	Digitalization is very positive, and for many of us it makes life much easier. It simplifies the public sector, it makes it more efficient, it can save on large resources that can be used on better things. In such a case as we're discussing now, I think we're all going to stress that the potential of digitalization is so enormously much greater than what we've been able to take out. So that this debate is going to continue, and that we politicians have to be even more offensive when it comes to digitising and getting even better IT systems, there's no doubt about it. Fortunately, there are many older people who are very good digitally. A lot of people handle it very well, they're active and they get very much positive out of it. So we also know that there are some things that aren't so good, or that getting things on paper is very good. The Employment and Welfare Directorate estimates that there are between 500000 and 600 000 pensioners and disabled people who have made reservations or who are not registered as digital users. I see that there are many of them who respond to the fact that they do not get the pension slip on paper in the post office. I understand the reactions of many pensioners, and I think it's about many people feeling discriminated against or put on the side of society because they're unable to cope with the digital transformation that others are doing. I think that also reinforces the feeling of being over or feeling inferior. For the Christian People's Party, it is central that everyone should feel included in the community, and we should not make changes of this kind without having good arrangements that take everyone's needs seriously. And it's really nice that you can get help from others, but at the same time it can be necessary to ask others for help in order to see the pension gap – or there are other kinds of questions – for some people to be demeaning and one can feel that one is on the sideline of society. So what can be positive for someone, can be quite painful for others. And not least for those who don't have so many others, it will be a rather demanding task all the time to have to turn to either Nav or to others to get help. I have discovered a specific challenge for the minimum pensioners. In order for pharmacists to be able to supply medicinal products to the minimum pensioner without paying the excess, the pharmacist must send an electronic request to Nav if he is actually a minimum pensioner. When the patient had a pay drop from Nav, there was no problem, but it now turns out that it is not possible for the pharmacist to reach the Nav IT system. They are not given confirmation that the pensioner is the minimum pensioner. The alternative then is that the patient pays the excess and demands it refunded from Helfo in retrospect. It's heavy and little user-friendly. Or the patient has to come back to the pharmacy later, hoping that the so-called partial query for Nav has succeeded and works. Until the problem is solved, the Pharmacy Association has said that it would be a good alternative for the minimum pensioners to get the payroll back, which confirms that they are actually the minimum pensioners. We had a round on this matter in connection with the budget for the current year, and the Christian People's Party felt that what was going to happen was that those who wanted it by post were going to get it by post. That's why we didn't do any more of it, except that we were concerned that one should follow the situation carefully and be sure that it works. What was then said does not happen, one does not get it by post. Yes, you can call and get it read out or even get it sent one time, but the point was that those who wanted it would get it sent by post. That is why the Christian People's Party will support the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, proposal No. 2 in the setting, that the recipients who so wish shall receive payment information on paper. We also support the proposal for Decision I, which has been drafted by the majority, and which I think it is good that the majority at least supports. I expect a good investigation to be made, and that it will be followed up in the state budget for 2018. As I've been in my post, there's a lot of talk about feelings here, and it's not necessarily that easy to figure out what kind of feelings you have. Therefore, I would like to stress that in a way, I don't necessarily think that the best way to figure it out is by an investigation, and therefore I just want to make it clear that when we read this proposal, it's not just a review because many people have approached or such things, but one can have thorough contact with the organizations, a dialogue, in order to see how we can solve this challenge in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1490	These two proposals from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV to be able to have pension slips on paper sent to the post office, which is much more than feelings. It's a matter of reality. It's a question of having an overview of your own economy in a way that you feel you need. I would say that seafaring is all that is alive, changing. This also applies to everything relating to the public sector, public organisation. We need to constantly have a dynamic process of changing in order to be up to time. But you have to stick to the goal: that public service should work in such a way as to give people the most equivalent situation possible, that technology must always be used and developed in such a way that it is adapted to reality. We don't have to adapt reality to technology. It's vital that most people have an overview of their own economy, and when people are different, you have to have an freedom of choice. It's rather discouraging that old people – and then we talk about old people, we don't talk about older people when we talk about old people – who don't use modern computer technology, can't get pension and social security payments on paper. I'll be very short. The centre party fully supports the work done by the Pensioners' Association. They are a good trade union for their members, and they have demanded that the older people, the old people who need this on paper, get it on paper. It is quite interesting to hear here the representative Wiborg of the Progress Party, who has been very concerned about this earlier, and who now accepts in practice that the system overrides what is perceived as equivalent public service. That should be completely unnecessary. I have to say that I react quite strongly to the fact that getting this out on paper immediately becomes a bill. You know, the world -- I guess there's a lot of money that the welfare community does, which involves bills that they're far from coming near the Bighold when it comes to asking for money for. We have a lot of examples of that. But here it's about doing this at an amount that's going to be a barrier for the Storting to get to. The centre party has included the necessary money in the revised national budget, so that you can get that service, so it should not be on it. We are occupied with pensioners abroad, many of whom have been concerned about, that a satisfactory offer has to be made. At all – one must be a bit pragmatic from Nav’s side. I don't understand why the Senate and the Council of State accept having trouble in this area too, as if the Nav organization has more than enough to wrestle with in other areas. That's why I just want to say that the Center Party will go in to fix this at a government change where the Center Party is in government – I want to say it so strongly. Partisan leadership is clear, because we cannot have people forced into solutions that are completely inappropriate in relation to the needs of old people. I'm taking up the proposals of the Center Party and the proposals we're on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1503	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1508	It is not only the economic differences that increase with today's government, but also the digital gap is increasing – the gap between those who hang out and have an overview, and those who have been deprived of that opportunity. In fact, there are a large number of people in this society who can be considered digital illiterates – who do not use PCs, mobile phones or tablets in the way that very many people take for granted. Obviously, many people find it hard to understand that it is part of the everyday life of others. It's not because you're struggling with a personal change, but because you haven't acquired the skills you may not have needed in your long life either. What this case is about is that many people experience no longer having a basic overview of their own economy and their own payments. That's why the Federation of Pensioners has made a signature campaign with tens of thousands of signatures to get the pension back. I would believe that it is not because they lack something to do at a time when the pensioners lose purchasing power through poor social security arrangements, in which there is no political will to make adjustments. In addition, although the Pensioners' Association has an organized campaign and a clear feedback to us as parties and as representatives, I have received a lot of enquiries from individuals about this. It's people who are ringing and despairing. They are despondent because they feel that they have been deprived of the overview of their own economy. There are also spouses who have called, for example. was a man with dementia very disturbed and excited because he felt that he was losing control of the points of view he had, and this was one of them. We have also been contacted by children and grandchildren of the elderly who are deeply despondent, but who are not necessarily able to express it the same way. Nobody is against digitization, but we're against people falling off the load. Therefore, it should be possible to have a smooth solution, at least in a transitional phase, because it is totally unreasonable to expect 80 and 90-year-olds to buy PCs or learn how to use tablets to get an overview of their own payments. The representative Stein Mathisen points out that many people have relatives who can help them, but it's not everyone who has it, and secondly, it's strange to make powerful people depend on others to have an overview of their own economy. I think that's a special attitude. We've seen a massive swing in terms of signals to the pensioners. We've seen a huge swing in terms of the possibility of getting rid of the mail anyway, how Nav is going to handle it, and what kind of contact you're going to have with Nav. The last thing is that you should call and check, and if there are good reasons for that, you can get documentation on paper. Then I would like to remind you of the telephone queues in Nav, and what we believe the Nav employees should spend their time on. It would have been nice if follow-up were prioritised, not telephone services. The representative called from the Christian People's Party mentioned the crooked and problematic aspects of this for people, and I am pleased with the support we receive for the proposal. The representative Wiborg spoke in his post about shutting his head in bureaucratic walls. Then I would remind you that exactly this wall is his own government that has built, but that it is quite possible today to join in and tear it down by voting for our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1523	I record that it has been, and is, a great commitment that pensioners and performers will receive letters every month on payments from the Employment and Welfare Act. I can also understand that many pensioners are concerned about this matter. Our society is digitised in a wide range of areas, whether it's tax settlements, banking services, the phone directory or prescriptions – just to mention something. In several municipalities, there is no longer a physical banking office. Understandably, not everyone, including some older ones, feels that they are not entirely involved in this development. I can assure you that I am concerned that all pensioners will get good information about their pension. As I have said on several occasions, the Employment and Welfare Act will continue to send all important messages to pensioners who want to do so, in the post office. The annual task and all changes in the pension will continue to be written to all those who are not digital users or who have reserved themselves for digital mail. For the very most, and not least for the very oldest, monthly payments from the etat are identical from month to month. I note that many pensioners and several people here in the Chamber believe that the payment messages are nevertheless an important message that all pensioners must be able to choose to send to the post every month – although it is now well arranged to see the payment message by logging on to Nav.no, just as most of us log on to the online bank. We see that more and more older people also prefer the online solutions, whether for the bank, the tax message or the contact with the Employment and Welfare Unit. However, I am aware that there are still many who cannot or will not use the online services. Therefore, all pensioners have received a letter saying that those who do not have a PC, iPad, smartphone or other – or any other option to log in to Your Nav – can contact the Nav Kontaktsenter and get the payment message read out. They can also get a print in special cases. The supervisor, together with the caller, will assess the need for a printout in each case. It has been too long this spring waiting on the phone to Nav Kontaktsenter, which the representative Bergstø was also in his post. As a result, several measures have been initiated by the ETF, and response times are now falling so that in most cases pensioners and others will receive rapid responses. Digital online services shall be the general rule for administrative communication with both residents and businesses. This is confirmed in the eManagement Regulation and is an important principle of the Government’s digitalisation strategy. It provides both efficient management and, in particular, better and more accessible services to users. This is why the government has also undertaken a wide-ranging effort to increase the use of digital services and to increase the digital competence of the population, particularly among the elderly. This is now being continued in concrete training and guidance services in municipalities, where the Employment and Welfare Act will also contribute actively. In addition, the department will continue to assist the individual by telephone or by each Nav office. As can be seen from the replies to the representatives of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, the Ministry will monitor the progress made in the transition to new and user-friendly digital services in the governance dialogue and will ask the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to evaluate the practices and actions established as part of such dialogue. I have also announced that the Stortinget will be properly informed about this. I have noticed that the majority have asked for a statement on this in connection with the state budget for 2018, and of course I wish to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1543	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1548	I have two questions for the Council of State. The Christian People's Party has clearly perceived what many others have, that the release should be sent out to those who wanted it. In his post in the room now, the representative Wiborg says that when there are changes, the post will be dropped. Is that right? The second question is, is it such that recipients of Nav benefits are no longer responsible for the correctness of their tax deduction?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1557	Yes, you are responsible for the information provided. The tax card is, as I understand it, something that is still sent out on paper from the tax haven. The annual report to be submitted is also sent out on paper. Both parts are considered important messages. What is not considered to be important messages now is the information that is identical to the previous months. When there's new information, you'll get it on paper, as the prescription says. The representative Aasrud also asked questions about those living abroad in his main post. Those who live abroad have the same opportunity as everyone else to have the information read out, but we want to look at the issues that relate to the rest of the world, not least the documentation needs that I understood the representative mentioned. In that case, we will come back with that in the evaluation we have promised in relation to the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1564	The Council of State did not answer what was my second question, the responsibility for the tax haven. When you get the annual task, it will consist of two benefits that are different, because you have settled social security in the middle of the year. There is no indication of the basis on which the monthly tax rate should be applied. Then a 90-year-old pensioner first has to find that year's assignment, then be ready to split it up correctly so that you get the correct monthly payment, then pick up your tax card – which one might have been able to send out in the post – and then you have to figure out if you get the right tax rate. Does the Council of State think that this is a requirement for pensioners now – that you should be able to cope with all these operations yourself? And what does the Council of State think about privacy if parents, friends or children are going to have to go in and check the payments? Is it possible, according to data protection, that others should take out that kind of information for you?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1571	As I have said several times, much information will still be sent on paper – important messages will. As I said in my first answer, the information that is identical to the previous month's information will not be sent out on paper. But it's available, either on the hub.no – so your hub digitally – or you can get it read out. So I can have full understanding that some people may not want to ask relatives to log in to Your Nav, but then you can still contact Nav to either read it out or in special cases have the information sent on paper. We now see that the number of requests to Nav is going down considerably. There was a lot of initially, there was a lot of uncertainty about how this would work. Now the number of requests to Nav is beyond anything like it was before this change was made. I feel confident that the elderly too are adapting to this, that good solutions are being found, and I think it is still reassuring and a security mechanism in that important messages are still being sent on paper.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1580	Now the council confuses even more in its answer, because now she says that when the payments are identical to the month before, there is no release. At the same time, it is said that there are no changes in the pension. Now the Council of State has to decide whether or not there will be a drop if there have been changes in the pension, because now the Council of State says it will only come when it is identical to the month before. What's right?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1585	The answer is the same as I have said every time, both orally and in writing: when the information does not change from month to month, it is not sent out on paper either. Then you can get the information digitally, or by calling Nav. It is defined what is to be regarded as an important message. It is stated in writing in the reply that also accompanies the case. When there is new information, new decisions or other — the annual task, etc. You get it on paper. But when the information does not change from month to month, it is not sent out on paper either. I have explained this both orally and in writing on several occasions. The Stortinget now decides to return to Stortingen in connection with the budget and to explain this in more detail, and I will, of course, do so too.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1594	There has been a lot of uncertainty about what the Council of State has said in this matter. First, she promised in Stortinget that those who needed the release would get it. It didn't turn out to be true. And now the representative Aasrud does not get a clear answer to the question she has – if there are changes in the pension regulation, is it then sent out? It is all these uncertainties that make this case extra difficult. There are many older people who are good on the PC, but according to SINTEF, there are 820,000 Norwegians who are helpless online. Many of the people we are talking about now are also hearing poorly, so there is not so much help in being able to call a telephone number. Not everyone has relatives. Does the Council of State mean that we are going to have a public system that can in consequence mean that, as an individual, I have to ask my children to have access to my finances in order to control it myself? Would the Council of State have had such a system?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1601	Individuals have to consider what is appropriate and to what extent they want to involve relatives. Neither does everyone have relatives who can assist. But as I say, you can then contact someone, talk to the supervisor and get help either to read the answer or in special cases get it sent. I have not promised that everyone who wants will have this sent on paper. I have always been quite clear – verbally and in writing – about what is going on. What I've said is that Nav now in the introduction, now that this is new, should show flexibility. The rule for what is defined as an important message is established. What is to be sent is a permanent one. What is not to be sent is a confirmation. But now that this is completely new and many are uncertain about how it works, Nav should show flexibility. Nav says there have been many enquiries initially. It's not that strange, because this has been a big change for many. But now they also report that there are fewer and fewer people who make contact. You're back to normal. This may indicate that those who have wanted the slip of security on paper have now adapted to the new regime. We come back to Stortinget with a detailed review of the budget, as requested by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1610	I also have quotes from the Council of State that can be interpreted as if those who needed it were going to get it. The Council of State may have to admit that she has expressed herself reasonably unexplained in this matter. The point here is that this is a big conversion. The state council repeats and repeats that here people have to adapt to the public. I might have expected a slightly different view from the Right, that the public should also facilitate people. Here we're talking about a few very old people. I know 95-year-olds who are quite ill and who have never used a PC, but who are very concerned that this should be correct. Those are the people we're talking about. I'm also sure that most people want this digitally pretty fast, but I think the Council of State has to realize that the system you've set up now is not flexible enough to meet the needs that are perfectly legitimate for many older people who want to have control of this themselves, and that you can't expect to be able to make the step into the digital world.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1617	Now I didn't realize that there was any question there – more any considerations about older people. Of course, there are others who are uncertain about this. Many don't have the digital competence required, that's quite right. This is also why we have now launched several projects to increase the digital competence of the population. As for the information we're talking about here, the information that will still be available to those who need it is either by logging into the Nav, and you can't, you can call Nav and get it read out, and in special cases get it sent. We're concerned that digital communication should be the general rule. This is often what is demanded by more and more users, including more and more older people, and we believe that when the information is similar from month to month, it can also be digital. But I repeat what I have said all along: I have asked Nav to initially show flexibility to those who need the information, and I have great faith that Nav, along with those who make contact, finds a good solution tailored to the individual's needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1627	This means that the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1634	Digitalization is very nice, and when it does, it has to be done so that you don't create digital class divisions, age divisions or geographical divisions. But unfortunately, the three things are now about to happen in many areas, and this is one of them. I hear several people say that older people feel like that, etc. But this is a matter where the elderly are ignored and considered unimportant. It is a serious situation for the public, and these systems should be for people and not the other way around. And it's a moralization that the elderly – and now we're talking about the very old elderly, who are even often sick – have to adapt to this system, or they have to let someone else get a little insight into their private economy. So the council says, "Yes, it's up to the individual." No, the system should take into account that the individual should be able to have full control of this and not need to interfere with any private individuals. I'm sure if you did this, and had done this with a slightly wiser approach than what's happened now, you would have gotten a lot of this mess. If you had opened up from the very beginning so that those who had to make a reservation for a period of time, or needed it for the rest of their lives, would have got it, you would have gotten a lot of this. This is a bad way to promote digitisation in the public sector, and I would remind the Council of State that we have universal design obligations, for example. We're now going to create a society that suits everyone, and it's going to take a long time before everyone is digitized. Evolution is moving so fast, President. I think you and I are about the same age, and I might guarantee that you are like me, that sometimes this goes too fast for us, too, it's difficult, and when important things are digitized, it's important that it is done so that we can act as responsible, autonomous people in this. So even someone is starting to draw up that this is part of the funding of the welfare state and the future. No, we're going to have a public sector that's for people and that serves them in a way that works. And if you're concerned about the problems of financing the welfare state in the future, I'm asking you to use a millimeter of energy to take the big thieves -- on tax evasion, financial crime, and that kind of thing. There are hundreds of billions to pick up. So it's not old pensioners who get their pay drop in the post that's going to roll over the Norwegian state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1646	The President would have said that Karin Andersen and the President are just as young!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1651	I'll be brief. I just want to say that we can't have a public system that makes powerful people have to have friends or relatives to keep order in their economy. So simple is this, we can't have it, it has to be corrected. The centre party is pleased that proposal No. 1 has received the agreement of the Workers' Party and SV in the setting – it is the proposal of the Centre Party contained in our document. As regards proposal No: 3, from the Center Party, there's been a mistake, and I want to make everyone aware that what's going to be in the first sentence is: ‘The decision asks the government as soon as possible and at the latest by September 2017 again to send all payment messages to pensioners and workers who so request on paper.’ Otherwise there are no corrections. The centre party will vote subsidiaryly for I in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1663	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen then corrected the wording of proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1668	First, an explanation of vote by the Labour Party. We're going to vote for I in the setting. We do not think it is necessary to vote in favour of the proposals of the minority in the Chamber, but there is nothing here in this debate that indicates that someone has changed their mind and will support those proposals, so we will also vote in favour of it. It is the worst of the proposals that have been promoted, but we are voting in favour. Then to the proposal of the Central Party. It is quite identical to the proposal we have as proposal No. 2, except that you want to wait until September. We can wait until September, but we don't think it's necessary to wait until September. The system is there, the council tells us that the annual tasks are sent out to those who want it, so there's no need to wait until September. We now grant money in the revised national budget – 10 million. kr. It's just to press the button and get started. We can also support the proposals of the Central Party on a subsidized basis. I'm a little excited about how the Central Party will vote between proposals No. 2 and 3, but I'm sure you'll get an explanation for that. So to what's serious in the matter. In the reply, I now ask the Council of State if what the representative Wiborg says is right – that when there are changes, the post will be released. The black state council confirmed in the line exchange we had. But a letter to the Committee dated 15 May reads as follows: ‘However, the Working and Welfare Act will always send letters as ‘important message’ if the performance changes beyond regulations and changes in rates and will continue to send the annual task to users.’ Now the Council of State has to explain what this really is: is it sent out after the social security settlement in May, and is it sent out when the tax card comes, or are there regulations and changes in rates being sent out, as it says in the letter to the committee? Now the Storting must be informed of what the Council of State means, and what is right, for this has created great confusion. We don't know what's really the situation, based on what the council has now answered, and what she's sent in letters. There are two completely different answers that have come up in the two situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1682	The SV may also vote in favour of I and the proposal of the Central Party with these amendments, but like the representative Aasrud, I would say that the Central Party should also vote in favour of proposal No. Two, because that's better. Then I will support the representative Aasrud in what she says. Just look up the settings and read the letter from the Minister of Labour. It says exactly what the representative, Aasrud, has just referred to: ‘if the benefit changes beyond regulation and rate changes’. This means that there may be changes without being informed. That will make this bill you have to make sail at the end of the year very difficult. I don't know what it's like with the Council of State, but I have to admit that I don't sit and count on this on every pay slip, but I know some older people who do, precisely because they're afraid that something is going to be wrong. It's an honor for many to have control of this. At least then it's important that they get the right information. Do they get notification when there is a change, even when there are regulations and charges, or do they not?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1696	The representative Aasrud is trying to give the impression that I'm giving different answers. If you add the written answers and reports from the oral questions that have been asked, next to each other – there are quite a few of them too – I feel quite sure that they are completely identical. It is clear from my reply to the Storting how an important message has been defined: ‘Single decision Pre-warning under Section 16 of the Administrative Act Other communications relevant to his legal position for the purposes of dealing with the case Notifications for which it is of particular importance for other reasons to ensure that they are received’» As I have also said in a previous answer: ‘Monthly payment messages which do not contain any new information compared to the previous month’s payment message are not considered to be an important message requiring the message to be sent as a mail [[...]] You can call Nav, get the information read out orally, and in special cases you can also get it sent on paper. I'm sure the representative Aasrud here is trying to misunderstand what I'm saying. I have been quite clear every single time, both verbally and in writing, on how this is to be understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1722	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1727	The opinion of the centre party is that at any change, even to whom it is, will come on paper for the first time. I also want to say that when there are changes, that information should come in a completely different way, so that people can understand why you've come to the amount presented. Otherwise, I would like to say that the Central Party is on proposal No. 2, so there's no misunderstanding about it. When we also promote proposal No. 3 is because it has some complementary wording and perhaps is a compromise in relation to proposal No. 2 and should be able to capture greater excitement. That is why we naturally see it as proposal No. 2 will be discussed before proposal No. So three, and the Central Party is in favour of both proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1734	There's a question here that there's two different answers to. One is what the Council of State says, the other is what the Council of State writes. Let me make it simple: if there is a change in pension payments after the social security settlement, does the pensioner get a written notice, or does he not?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1742	I am well aware that I have answered this question quite many times: No, there are changes in addition to the regulations and changes in rates that are notified in writing – as explained in my written answer in connection with the handling of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1747	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1771	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party the proposals No 3 and 4, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 3 and 4, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government requests amendments to the regulation on country-by-country reporting to ensure that, in the context of the provision of expanded information, this is done in line with annual accounts and irrespective of the materiality limit.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the country-by-country reporting regulation to specify that the main figures in the country-by-country reporting should be included in the notes to the financial statements.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1804	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the regulation on country-by-country reporting in order to ensure that, where extended information is to be provided, it is granted irrespective of the materiality limit.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an estimate of costs, benefits and disadvantages by tightening the wording that the figures are to be taken from the annual accounts of Section 4 of the LLR Regulation and by requiring the main figures in the country-by-country reporting to be included as a note in the financial statements.’; [[1]] [[2]] The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced subsidiary support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1844	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward by Mr Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for different models of reducing employers’ fees for lower pay groups and younger workers in order to combat unemployment in these groups.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1877	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1–9, from Sveinung Rotevatern on behalf of Left. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2, 5 and 6 from the left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals as soon as possible to extend the system of State contributions to the AFP to individual and self-employed enterprises, if the scheme is continued.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government in the context of the 2018 government budget to propose exemptions from the employer’s fee for up to three years for start-ups with less than five employees.’ Proposal No. Six sounds. ‘The government asks the government in the context of the 2018 State Budget to propose the introduction of a fixed-term asset tax discount scheme for entrepreneurs in the event of stock market introduction.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1906	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1, 3, 4 and 7-9 from the left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose to the government, in the context of the 2018 government budget, a minimum deduction or deduction scheme for self-employed persons/individual enterprises at the level of, and equivalent to, the minimum deduction for, personal taxpayers.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government as soon as possible and, at the latest, in the context of the State budget for 2018, proposes to re-establish the arrangements for the advance payment of taxes for individual enterprises for arrears in line with those applicable to ordinary employees/enterprises.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in the context of the 2018 government budget to propose the introduction of an investment fund scheme for individual enterprises based on the Swedish expansion fund model.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in the context of the 2018 government budget to submit proposals to extend the system of tax-free continuing training to individual enterprises.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals from the Government in the context of the 2018 State Budget to reintroduce the Unremunerated Research Effort Scheme.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the introduction of an innovation stock exchange as soon as possible in line with the wording of the government platform.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e1968	A total of 36 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-20, from Dag Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 21-29, from Day Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 30, from Dag Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 31, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 32 to 36, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 32-36, from the Central Party. Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the social partners, is asked to find measures to increase the degree of organisation of Norwegian labour, inter alia by increasing the trade union deduction.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to introduce registration obligations for important and critical building works on property.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: «The government is asking the government to strengthen the demand and use of apprentices in public contracts.» Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the public procurement rules in such a way that, in cases where the supplier is using subcontractors/contract agents, these are, as a general rule, to be stated at the time of the offer.’;» Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the public procurement legislation in such a way that where contracted labour from one or more agency staff is, in general, to be regarded as an entire supply within one work area, this shall be counted as a supplier’s part.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e2026	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 31 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government, in cooperation with the social partners, is asking for better training of migrant workers in both language, safety culture and knowledge of the Norwegian model of working life, including their rights and duties as workers.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e2045	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 30, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that migrant workers are better trained in both language, safety culture and knowledge of the Norwegian model of working life, including their rights and duties as workers.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e2064	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 21, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government, in cooperation with the social partners, is asked to find measures to increase the degree of organisation of Norwegian labour, including the establishment of a stepping-up plan to double the trade-union deduction during the next large-scale period.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e2081	The proposals are then put to the vote. 22–24 and 26, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to define what a permanent employment under the Working Environment Act should contain. Minimum requirements must be a specified percentage of the employment with a work plan which also provides a predictable weekly/monthly working time, and these working conditions must be reflected in the contract of employment and thus constitute the basis for the obligation of pay and employment.» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the rental legislation so that it does not delay permanent employment and recruitment, but is limited to the provisions of the Labour Environment Act on temporary employment.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose to amend the Working Environment Act so that agreements with trustees on fixed-term rentals and deviations from the general working time provisions of the Working Environment Act can only be concluded where it is provided for in a nationwide agreement.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: «The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the impact by increasing the threshold in the regulation on public procurement requirements from SEK 500000 to SEK 1.1 million. kronor and strengthen the requirement and use of apprentices in public contracts.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e2116	The proposals are then put to the vote. 27–29, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to limit the number of stages of public contracts so that the starting point is a main contractor and an underlying link, but that several stages of the supply chain can be accepted when specifically competence or a few suppliers so require. This must be justified and approved before the conclusion of a contract. Renting is covered by the provision.» Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of a requirement to monitor the situation of persons who work illegally in Norway before they may leave the country, as part of work on labour crime and trafficking in human beings.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the authorities have an overall approach to how the police and controls meet people who work without authorisation and do not have a lawful residence, so that those who may be exposed to serious exploitation or trafficking in human beings experience confidence in the authorities.’ The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e2145	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 25, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose the introduction of registration obligations for work on property.» The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e2164	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1–6, 8, 10–12 and 17, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to contribute to the strengthening of research on social dumping and crime at work in order to contribute to the promotion of good governance.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the social partners to assess the establishment of a number of tripartite sectoral programmes, including the construction industry and the car industry.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose to reinstate permanent posts as the general rule of the Working Environment Act by removing general access to temporary employment.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to reintroduce collective redress and assess whether the right should be extended to temporary agency employees as well as to lease-in companies.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose defining ‘employee’ and ‘employee’ in the law in order to make it more difficult to circumvent the responsibilities of the employer or to deprive employees of their rights.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce a registration obligation for foreign service providers, seconded and self-employed, who are carrying out work in Norway. The proposal shall include information on the place of work, the period of time and the persons carrying out the work.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to strengthen the public service regime and to facilitate its implementation, inter alia by simplifying the documentation requirement.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for better cooperation between the education sector and the social partners. This is done, inter alia, by contributing to increased knowledge of the labour market in terms of the content of relevant education and training courses, by facilitating knowledge of the organisation of the labour market, including cooperation with social partners, black work and rights and duties as an employee, and by encouraging educational institutions to draw on social and work life to contribute to up-to-date and relevant education.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to improve the clean-up recognition system by ensuring the establishment of a common information portal that helps to make serious choices and where all relevant public agencies and industry actors present their resources in a coordinated, transparent and user-friendly manner.’;» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce a ban on the purchase of cleaning from establishments not approved by the Labour Inspectorate and to increase the control activities towards sellers and purchasers of cleaning to discourage undeclared work.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider extending the period for the storage of electronic crew lists to three years after the end of the project’.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e2235	The proposals are then put to the vote. 7, 9, 13–16 and 18–20, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests the implementation of the Safety Register with the information described in the report ‘Simple to be serious’.’» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose to extend joint and several liability to the order and to extend the duration of the responsibility to six months.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a comprehensive review of the legislation preventing the sharing of information between the control centres and between the control centres and the police, including the rules on professional secrecy, with a view to simplifying and clarifying the legislation and improving the possibilities for sharing information in order to detect and combat work-life crime.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up work crime centres in all police districts of the country and to ensure common training and plans for them.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure better public sector competence for the follow-up of the contractor’s compliance with pay and working conditions, including ensuring that the Labour Inspectorate has sufficient competence to supervise social dumping.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking for better cooperation between the authorities and the social partners in order to detect and counteract social dumping and the crime of working life.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the control settings and the police have the competence and resources to identify and follow up victims of labour crime and trafficking, with the aim of helping exploiters and as part of achieving those behind organised crime in the workplace and trafficking in human beings.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that victims of trafficking in human beings are provided with the protection they need and requirements under national and international law.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to strengthen the measures against bankrupttors by assessing whether the penalties for breaches of bankruptcy law should be increased and whether the threshold for the imposition of bankruptcy can be lowered.’ The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e2295	There should have been registered one vote for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e2300	The result is that 50 voted in favour and 53 voted against the proposals of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left – and therefore the proposals are not accepted. The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e2335	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward by Per Olaf Lundtägen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to review Norwegian laws, regulations and collective agreements with a view to their being the overall EEA and EU legislation in the field of working life and, if necessary, to submit legislative proposals to ensure this.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e2368	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Mr Christoffersen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the government to propose the necessary legislative changes that ensure equivalent pension schemes irrespective of the type of operation and that ensure employees the right to retain at least the same good pension benefits as before, in the case of privatisation and outsourcing of public tasks, activities and support functions [[cleanness, etc.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e2401	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Three from the Center Party. The proposal was amended during the debate and reads – with the amendment made: «The decision asked the government as soon as possible and at the latest by September 2017 again to send all payment messages to the pensioners and performers who have asked for it on paper. Together with each payment message, there shall be information that the recipient can receive future payment messages electronically if a digital user registers on Nav.no.’» The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have expressed support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e2429	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an evaluation of the scheme to ensure that the country’s pensioners and disabled people today do not receive their pension and social security payments on paper as before and, as soon as possible, promote the necessary measures to follow up this evaluation.’; The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e2448	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure, as soon as possible, that the recipients who so request receive payment information per paper.’ The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e2477	Behind it is the right, the right, the left, and the right. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced subsidiary support for the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-09.ana.ud54e2568	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
