ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e27	The representatives Anniken Huitfeldt and Tore Hagebakken, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The Workers' Group has requested that the convening of the meeting of the alternate of the Hedmark County, Tone Merete Sønsterud, under the leave of the representative of Anette Trettebergstuen, be extended until 30 October. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Solveig Sundbø Abrahamsen, Silje Hemdal, Hege Haukeland Liadal, Per Olaf Lundtigen and Tuva Moflag on leave from 16 October until 10 November – all to attend the 72nd General Assembly of the United Nations, second part, in New York from the representative Peter Frølich for the period from 16 October to 29 October On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: These applications shall be dealt with without delay and shall be accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Mani Hussaini 17 October–09. November For the Province of Buskerud: Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy 17 October–09. November For the state of Hordaland: Sigurd Hille 17–26. ==References====External links== November For Rogaland County: Julia Wong 17 October–09. November For Telemark County: Emilie Clarice Schäffer 17 October–09. November
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e121	The representative, Carl-Erik Grimstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e126	It is an honour to present a proposal by Trine Skei Grande, Ola Elvestuen, Abid Q. Raja, André N. Skkelstad and myself on measures that make it easier to move between Norway and the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e131	The representative, Mr Ketil Kjeseth, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e136	It is a pleasure to present a proposal for a representative on attempts at blockages in the public sector. It's on behalf of Trine Skei Grande, Carl-Erik Grimstad and signed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e141	The representative, André N. Skkelstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e146	I would like to make a representative proposal on behalf of Terje Breivik, Jon Gunnes, Ketil Kjeseth and myself to investigate the establishment of a Norwegian global entrepreneurship programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e152	The representative of Mr Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e157	On behalf of the representatives of Trine Skei Grande and Terje Breivik, I would like to present a proposal for a representative on a Norwegian code of crowdfunding/folk funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e162	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e178	The government has managed Norway safely over a demanding period of time. We've been dealing with the biggest migration crisis since World War II, and we've been exposed to the most severe oil price drop in 30 years. One of our most important industries was hit hard when the oil price was more than halved in 2014. Let there be no doubt that this shock strongly affected the Norwegian economy: over 40000 jobs disappeared in petroleum-related industries. The investments on the Norwegian base fell by almost 30 pst. A lot of people lost their jobs. Even more people were concerned about their own and their family's finances. Having a job to go to is important to all of us. It is important for individuals, and it is important for Norway. That's why there's also reason to rejoice that the most difficult period now is behind us. Growth in the Norwegian economy is on its way up. Freedom goes down, and more jobs are created. The policy has worked, but the job has not been done. In front of us are major challenges that need to be solved: We get older, and we live longer. That's good. But an older population also contributes to a smaller proportion of us working and paying taxes. The oil industry will be important for the Norwegian economy for many years to come, but we cannot rely on it to be an equally powerful driver of future growth in the economy. That's the curtain for the budget we're presenting today. That's good growth in the economy. All over the country, free hands come to work. Companies report optimism and investment ambitions, and they will employ more. Our main task is to facilitate optimism, investment, people feel safe because they have a job to do, and because they look forward to their own economic future. It was right to spend more money to contribute to the activity and conversion after the oil price drop. Now it's right to take a step back, so that the good cancers work. Now that economic activity is speeding up and growth is becoming more self-sustaining, the state must give less gas in order not to weaken the ability of Norwegian companies to compete internationally. That is why we are normalising fiscal policy and adding to a neutral state budget for 2018. The use of oil revenues actually increases by 6 billion. kr and shall be 2,9 pst. by State pension funds abroad. We give priority to actions that both safeguard and further develop our welfare systems, and make us better equipped to meet the challenges that we know will come in the future. We continue to modernise and convert Norway. We're going to be smarter and more innovative. We will continue to renew, simplify and improve the public sector. We're going to have better quality and more well-being out of every penny we use. Defence shall be strengthened, infrastructure renewed and hospitals built. We're going to create a simpler everyday life for most people, and we're going to create new, profitable jobs in a business that thrives. The state budget for 2018 is a secure and forward-looking budget. It is a budget for economic growth, more in jobs and a sustainable welfare society. Our main resource, the labour force, is to become even more skilled. Through a strong commitment to research and education, we contribute to change and increase productivity. It's going to build more roads and lanes, so it'll make it easier for people to get to work, and so that the goods get to the customers faster. It is worth working, creating and investing in Norway. When we create more profitable jobs and help those outside, we ensure that even more people will enjoy the opportunities offered by Norwegian society. When the available hands come to work, the tax revenue goes up and the social security costs go down. We'll have more room to build the country on. We invest in police and defence – for increased security in everyday life and better preparedness in an uncertain time. We're betting on health care and welfare in the municipalities. We cut waiting times, expand offers and increase quality. We prioritise efforts to combat child poverty and strengthen child protection. Work at early school is being reinforced. We will help long-term unemployed and job seekers under 30 years of age. “This will strengthen our well-being today and secure Norway for the future. The fall in oil prices caused significant negative ring-effects. In the last year, the arrows have turned around: the availability falls throughout the country, also in the South and Western countries. Employment is rising. In the future, we expect it to increase more than the population, so that the proportion of people working can increase. The government has used fiscal policy aimed at increasing the activity of the economy and creating more jobs. Low interest rates have provided drag help and supported a weaker crown. The social partners have taken responsibility and have shown moderation. This has led to Norwegian companies being significantly more competitive now than a few years ago. Seafood and tourism industries are examples of industries that benefit from this development. In addition, business itself has shown an impressive ability and willingness to change. In the oil industry, for example, we have companies that have streamlined and cut costs so that they deliver profitability at a significantly lower oil price than a few years ago. For example, the Johan Castberg project can now be run economically at an oil price as low as $35 per barrel, down from over $80 in the early planning phase. The recovery in the economy seems to be coming faster than expected. Economic growth is going to be 2 pst. this year. It's a double from last year and significantly higher than we imagined when we presented the revised national budget in May. Over the next few years, the rise will be reinforced by better household purchasing power and major capital formation on the base. In addition, we are likely to see that the effects of improved competitiveness are also more evident in the form of increased exports and investment growth in the mainland. Already next year, growth in the Norwegian economy will be stronger than the historical trend. The countries around us are also marked by improvement, optimism and economic growth. This is good news for Norway. But there are also uncertainties. Beyond our borders, the economic prospects of major trading partners, such as the United States and the United Kingdom, are creating uncertainty. Protectionism poses a significant risk to economic growth both globally and in Norway. We have, like most other countries, specialized in producing some goods because we have good assumptions for producing them – first fish and timber, then aluminum and other metals, and then every oil and gas. We have sold the goods in an international market. The goods that other countries have better assumptions for producing, we buy. That way, we'll get the most back for our resources. Free trade is not only important for the workplaces on the base. That we can sell our goods in an open international market is equally important for the Bremnesfjord farm and the Aluminum plant in Årdal. The tendency we see to increase protectionism is a direct threat to Norwegian district jobs. This is why progress is worrying. Our wealth is built on trade with the rest of the world and free markets. At home, there are uncertainties on both sides. As in many other countries, some households have a lot of loans in relation to income. If many start tightening up consumption at the same time, e.g. serving higher interest charges may help to slow the rise in the Norwegian economy. On the other hand, business can invest more than we see in the future. After a period of weak growth, this can happen quickly. The growth in the Norwegian economy can then be stronger than we estimate. In the perspective communication, we showed that Norway is facing significant challenges in financing our welfare systems in the future. But we have a good starting point. Differences in Norway are clearly smaller than in most other countries. We have a good society with equal opportunities arrangements. We'll take care of that. We have solid government finances, a productive business and a highly educated workforce. Sustainable welfare schemes, however, require efforts in several areas. More jobs are important, but not enough. Growth in the economy needs to be improved. We have to get more out of taxpayers' money. They should not be wasted but invested in welfare and growth. To get better services and more out of public sector resources, we have implemented reforms in the municipal, police, rail and higher education sectors. We will continue the reform process. There will be no reform break. We are continuing the ABE reform for less red tape and more efficient public sector. It is expected to provide annual savings of SEK 1.7 billion. kr in the future. It gives more money for priority purposes. The government is also working purposefully to simplify everyday life for most people and for business. We digitise and apply new technologies, making it more user-friendly and less time consuming to deal with government. It is better to be a resident of Norway when you can pick up your medicines at any pharmacy because of e-prescription, and when expenditure beyond the free-card limit is automatically refunded. Being a company is both cheaper and more attractive when regulation and reporting become easier. During this government period, we have reduced the annual cost of business by nearly 9 billion. kr. The Government will implement new ICT and digitisation actions in general government in 2018. With digitisation and increasingly advanced technology, there are fantastic opportunities. With welfare technology, we can deliver better and safer care. New digital tools create new methods for making diagnostics and more efficient arenas for education and communication. At the same time, we are faced with demanding choices. We have to be willing to change, change. Robotization, sensor technology, the Internet of Things, great data and artificial intelligence will affect our everyday lives and our working life. With technology, enterprises can produce cheaper, better and more environmentally friendly while at the same time laying the foundation for new industries and jobs in Norway. This summer I visited the Vesteraalens. They make, as everyone knows, very good fishballs. Now they're building a new fish processing plant on Blackland. This means new jobs in North Norway and increased value creation for the whole country. For this company, new technologies and better framework conditions have made it profitable to build up production in Norway. Similar stories we hear from more industries. Investment in knowledge and technology gives us a competitive advantage, whether it be the furniture industry, the shipyards or the numerous suppliers of the oil industry. The work on raising the Norwegian economy takes place every day — all over the country. Safe and good jobs that generate profits over time are a pillar of the Norwegian welfare society. Therefore, welfare can never be set up against value creation — one assumes the other. This is precisely why businesses need to be able to create more, not more taxes. It must pay to work and create jobs. The framework for Norwegian enterprises must be adapted to an increasingly tougher international competition. Since we took over, we have reduced taxes by about 23 billion. kr. Both the majority of people and businesses have been relieved. In this budget, we are following up key points in the tax reform as a broad majority on the Stortinget joined in 2016. The government proposes new net reliefs in taxes and taxes of a total of 3 billion. kr. in 2018. Most importantly, the proposal for further relief in the rate of general income tax for companies and persons is. We're reducing the income tax to 23 pst. When you decide about a larger part of your own income, it becomes a little more attractive to work. When you get lower taxes on last earned heads, it becomes attractive to work a little bit more. That is why we are proposing to lower the marginal tax on wages for the vast majority and most of them with the lowest income. The company tax was also cut to 23 pst. In addition, we reduce the taxes on wealth on shares and operating resources. The revaluation discount, which is a total accumulation, is increased to 20 pst. We need strong Norwegian ownership in our business. Investment and production in Norway shall be profitable. The property tax is a burden on many production companies. The payment of property taxes on machinery is an additional burden. When we propose to remove the property tax on machines and accessories, there are many corner stone companies among the winners. Predictability and stable framework conditions are important prerequisites for both businesses and citizens to plan their economy. We therefore propose to halve the maximum rate of property tax from 2 per million to 1 per million for the year in which the tax is introduced, and that it can then only be increased by up to 1 per million per year, not 2. The government also proposes to reintroduce a differentiated employer’s charge for transport and energy from the turn of the year. We've been working towards the EU for a long time to get this done, and this summer we got a hit. In order to ensure well-being, we need to implement reforms, even when these are demanding in the short term. Tax reform is about ensuring a comprehensive, effective and well-adapted tax system. That is why we are now proposing some changes. We're going to wind up class 2, because it's weakening the incentives to work. There is at least one immigrant in most couples taxed in this class. Winding up tax class 2 will promote equality, participation in work and integration. Immigrant families are overrepresented in the group of families with persistently low incomes. This is because the woman often has a low income or no income. discontinuing class 2 would make it more attractive for immigrant women to take paid employment. Then fewer families will remain in a low-income situation, and we contribute to the fight against child poverty. We suggest that the low rate of VAT be increased from 10 pst. to 12 pst. By increasing the low rate of VAT and giving tax relief on income, we tax consumption rather than work and saving. It's a change in the direction of a tax regime that's adapted to the challenges we're facing. In addition, the rules on the deduction of costs of accommodation and accommodation are amended so that they will more significantly reduce real extra costs of commuting. A significant proportion of those requiring the deductions are commuters from EEA countries and extensive fraud, fraud and abuse of the scheme has been detected. The government suggests removing the deduction from the diet if food can be prepared in the commuting home. For other commuters, the scheme is maintained as today. Many of today’s deductions and special arrangements were introduced at a different time. The deduction for diet and Losji was introduced in 1927. Today, commuters have the opportunity to cook in the commuting home. The food no longer costs significantly more than at home, and the basis for the deduction has thus fallen away. When society is changing, the tax system has to be renewed. The Shared Economy Committee has proposed the introduction of taxes on short-term rental of part of owner-occupied dwellings. The government follows this up with proposals to remove the tax exemption for rental conditions that last less than 30 days. It will provide hotels and other traditional accommodation establishments with the same competitive conditions as those renting their accommodation through services such as Airbnb. But many households finance their housing partially by renting out parts of it. It is important for the government that households have predictability in their finances. So for long-term rentals, over 30 days, taxation is going to be just like today. The government has ambitious objectives in climate and environmental policies. After four years in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the emissions are on the way down and the efforts to take care of nature are on the way up. We are focusing on the development of new climate technologies, on the development of public transport and rail. We have agreed on a greener direction of car charges, and we have agreed on a new climate target for Norway. Our contribution to the Paris agreement is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst. towards 2030. It is a change of pace in Norwegian climate policy. Before the summer, the government presented a strategy for meeting Norway’s obligations. Over 80 pst. the greenhouse gas emissions in Norway are covered by the allowances and/or CO 2 tax. In cooperation with the EU, we will achieve the 2030 target for non-quota emissions. We will achieve the objective of focusing on reducing domestic emissions and making the necessary use of the flexibility of EU legislation. Norway is in dialogue with the EU on a joint agreement to meet the climate obligation. In addition, we want to cooperate with other European countries on emission reductions in sectors not covered by the ETS. A green conversion of charges is also an important contribution to the conversion and modernisation of Norway. The government strengthens the climate and environmental system of the charging system, promoting climate-friendly investments and incentives to put new and modern technologies into practice. The CO 2 tax is more cost-effective by removing exemptions and low rates. We have passed through several budgets on the one-off charge for cars in an environmentally friendly direction. This has produced results. There are increasing numbers of modern and environmentally friendly cars rolling out on the roads. Emissions are falling sharply. The size has an explicit target of reducing the average CO 2 emissions of new cars to 85 grams per km. We are expected to achieve this goal three years in advance. In order to further reduce emissions from the transport sector, the choice of public transport should also be more attractive. We propose to increase the grant for major collective projects in the major cities, and we continue the historic promise for the railways in Norway. The government has provided a historical investment in transportation. Since 2013, appropriations have increased by 26 billion. kr, an increase of more than 60 pst. National transport plan responds to major challenges in Norwegian infrastructure and facilitates simpler, faster and more environmentally friendly transport. The government follows up the plan and proposes a real increase of 3 billion. kr from 2017 to road, rail and public transport. Better accessibility simplifies logistics in a long-term country. When we focus heavily on the maintenance and construction of new and modern infrastructure, we promote a competitive, productive and profitable business. And we are facilitating the functioning of housing and labour markets throughout the country. Everyday life becomes easier – for those who deliver goods and services to the customer, for those who commute to work, for those who pick up in the nursery, for those who drive to the cabin. Every day becomes easier for all of us. The draft budget facilitates the improvement and start-up of several road projects. Norwegian roads are going to be safer, distances are going to be shorter. We have a lot to take back after many years with too little money. With the necessary reforms, the safe roads will come faster and cheaper to people. We can't afford to waste. That's why the government has been thinking about something new. In 2015, New Roads were created. The company should build, operate and maintain several road sections. They should challenge established standards and rethink the way they build roads. The goal is to get more out of each of the heads we use. It will benefit people on the road, and it can mean great savings for society. The company can already show good results, and in line with the government's ambition, we propose to increase the annual grant significantly, to SEK 5.3 billion. kr from 2018. While we're going to build more roads, we have to manage the roads we have. The draft budget proposes funds to reduce the maintenance set-aside even in 2018. The government is concerned that each of us should be able to live the life we want to live, and feel safe. That is why we have made considerable efforts for security and preparedness, and we will continue to do so. We're betting on the police. We have increased the number of police posts and are well on track to reach the target of 2 police officers per 1,000 inhabitants. The near-police reform facilitates a powerful and modern police force across the country. Greater units in the districts provide a higher level of competence. Then the police will be better able to deal with more organised and serious crime. Smarter organisation also frees up more resources for visible and accessible police, creating security where people live and travel. We want to invest in a national response centre so that the police can respond faster and more effectively when something happens. This will be a paradigm shift for Norwegian preparedness. Training facilities and better locations will enhance interaction between response actors and enhance the quality of those we depend on when the crisis is over. The government buys three new police helicopters. They will be an invaluable tool for monitoring both on-going operations and to carry specialist forces that need to be deployed quickly. When the police are given better opportunities to fight crime, it is also essential that there are sufficient detention centres. When the government took over, the settlement capacity was blown up, and over 1,200 people were in a queue. In 2015, we therefore concluded an agreement on the rental of prison sites in the Netherlands. The agreement has worked well, and the government is now proposing to extend it for one year. In addition, we increase the capacity here at home. We've expanded the prisons at Ullersmo and Eidsberg with over 180 shelters, and we've started building new prisons in Agder. When this is completed by 2020, Norway will have 300 new closed prisons. Today, the reconciliation queue is greatly reduced. The measures have worked. But it's not just in the justice field that the government increases the security of most people. A good defense of the country is one of the central tasks of the state to ensure our freedom and the sovereignty of Norway. We live in a time of more uncertainty. Out in the world, we are facing a new security policy situation. The defence’s ability to deal with crisis and conflict – in the neighbourhoods of its own and allies – needs to be given high priority. Both the preparedness and the operational capacity must be in line with the threat we are facing. This government took over a defence characterised by a large and long-standing aftermath on maintenance, spare parts and preparedness. We are committed to strengthening our national defence capabilities. In recent years, therefore, large amounts of money have been allocated to reduce delays, and last year’s government budget represented a change in defence policy. The size has adopted a new long-term plan for the defence sector. It's an ambitious plan that will take time to implement. But the objectives are clear. We're going to reduce the response time, increase the activity, get more crews and keep improving preparedness. We already see the effects: now we practice more, fly more and sail more. In this budget, we continue to strengthen efforts and continue to increase the defence capacity of Norway. The government proposes to use approx. 55 B.C.E. kr for defence purposes in 2018. The appropriations for the purpose of the long-term plan increase by 2,5 billion. kr from current year. We start on several major investments in new and modern materials to build a defense that will meet today's and tomorrow's threat picture. We give special priority to strengthening and the presence of the Defence in the north. We're putting considerable resources into manning and rehearsing in the defenses and home security. We will continue to recruit, train and equip skilled Norwegian soldiers. This ensures Norway for the future. In 2015, more than 31 000 asylum seekers came to Norway. So far this year about 2,000 have come. With increased control at the external borders, strict asylum and immigration policies and clear signals to groundless asylum seekers, we have gained better control of migration. The government will continue to pursue a strict, fair and predictable immigration policy. Significant efforts are now being made to integrate around the country. The Government believes that clear self-restraint requirements should form the basis for integration policy, and we will continue to work towards this in the future. The government also helps the police to increase their efforts for young people in the south of Oslo. This will improve integration and reduce crime in an area that has often faced challenges. Good health is important in all people's lives and an important investment for society. Delivering health has been a priority for the government from day one. Our goal is to create a healthcare service where patients get more freedom of choice and do not wait unnecessarily long in line. More than 2,000 patients have used free treatment options. Freedom of choice should be fundamental to public health, because it improves services, because it reduces queues, and, most importantly, because it respects the fact that we humans are different. 70,000 fewer people are in a health queue. Waiting time has been reduced and will still be required shorter. I am proud that we continue to provide good health services in Norway. Creating the patient's healthcare is not an easy task. Hospitals are among the largest and most complex establishments we have. Many of our hospitals are the largest employer and workplace in their area. Hospitals affect the whole community around them. In 2018, we set up a continued good activity growth – to provide patients with more effective and safer treatment, to provide all equivalent quality health services. We grant, we give priority, and we contribute with new solutions. The government has significantly strengthened cancer treatment in the last four years. Nearly seven out of ten cancer patients who are in the cancer package are now receiving treatment within the prescribed time frame. Now we want to start working on a national programme for the screening of intestinal cancer. Intestinal cancer is among the diseases that take most lives, but at the same time one of the few that can be discovered before it develops into cancer. With this we will be able to reduce mortality and save many people too much suffering. A good health policy also means good and modern hospital buildings. It is important for the patients, for the employees and for the relatives. In the 2018 budget, the Government proposes the granting of investment loans to new hospitals in Nordmøre and Romesdal, to new clinic buildings at the Radium Hospital and to the modernisation and expansion of the hospital in Haugesund. In the year that comes, the work on a new hospital in Drammen will also speed up. So there is a significant upgrading of the country's hospitals in all regions. From the first day of government, we said that people with mental health challenges and drug dependence should be given priority. Those who are motivated for drug treatment should receive help as soon as possible. That's why we're making special use of multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment, and we're going to give the municipalities $300 million. to strengthen the offer to those with drug problems. This is a follow-up to the Drippling Plan. The plan has an economic framework of 2.4 billion. kr in the period 2016-2020 and provides a strong boost for treatment, housing, health care, early intervention and aftercare. It's about getting a change to the better for the addict. It's about creating good and whole services. Health and care services are not just for the treatment of disease. They're going to give the opportunity to master, to have a good everyday life and a purposeful life. In 2018, we will start an experiment with primary health teams where permanent staff, nurse and health secretary work together to provide the patient with the best possible help according to the individual’s needs. In this way, chronically ill people and people with complex health problems will receive better services to help them master their daily lives. A simpler everyday life is also important in the care of the elderly. Growing old is something you should be able to enjoy. People must be able to live well their whole lives. There is a lot of good in the care of the elderly. But in some places we're not good enough. With the quality reform Life throughout our lives, we focus on the basic conditions that most often fail in the provision of older people: food, activity and community, health care and the coherence of services. Our main objectives in the care of the elderly are to improve health care and better care for the elderly — our parents and grandparents. Over the period, we've arranged for 10,600 lucky day care places. Now we're giving investment grants to 1,800 more. It was far too boring to build hospitals in the municipalities. We know why. The municipalities thought they were sitting with too much of the bill. To speed up the construction, the government takes half the bill. It's given results. We have seen a sharp increase in applications from municipalities; they will build several new hospitals. From 2021 on, the State no longer pays for the renovation of old premises, only for new health homes. This conversion is important. We're getting older and we need new places. It doesn't just keep upgrading the ones we have anymore. Never before have municipalities had a better chance of building more hospitals. I hope they catch it. Everyone will enjoy the opportunities offered by Norwegian society. That's why we need to strengthen the help of those who are outside. We give priority to tackling child poverty with targeted measures. The main single factor in preventing children from growing up in poverty is that parents have jobs. Our goal is twofold: to prevent poverty from being inherited, and to improve the quality of life of children here and now. The government strengthens child protection to ensure that all children have equal opportunities. Employees in child protection have themselves been aware that they need more competence and better action in the follow-up of vulnerable children and families. This is why we are proposing increased efforts to improve the quality and competence of municipal child protection. In order to improve health care for children in the field of child protection, we will also improve the supply of mental health. These children need both child protection care and health care. Then we need to ensure better interaction, availability and greater capacity. This will give children a better chance of doing well later in life. The municipalities have had strong income growth in recent years and a good economy. We have to go back to the last millennium to find a better result for Norwegian municipalities than in 2016. A healthy and predictable economy is important for the performance and further development of the tasks of the local government sector: a safe start to life in kindergarten and school appropriate help at the right time for those who need it and is responsible for caring for the elderly walking and cycling routes, so that children get to school and leisure activities safely Under this government, municipalities have achieved a significant real growth in their income. In addition, tax revenue in the municipal sector has been much higher than expected in recent years. The 2018 draft budget represents a real growth in the free revenues of municipalities of nearly 3.8 billion. kr and a total revenue growth of SEK 4,6 billion. kr. The government's budget proposal enables municipalities to provide more and better welfare services, to create living communities throughout the country. Knowledge is the very foundation of a society and the key to a secure future for each individual human being. If we succeed in creating kindergartens that give a good start to life, a school where students learn even more, and a high-quality education and research sector, we have laid the main foundation for Norway to continue to be a competitive country where it is good to live in the future. The government wants to have a school that sees every student and takes care of the children's appetite. Too many students leave primary school with poor basic skills. We need to step up our early efforts. The government will therefore require municipalities to provide intensive training to students between 1 and 4. steps to be followed in reading, writing and billing. In order for the municipalities to be able to follow up on this obligation, they have to keep up with the money. The government will continue the grant of more than 1.3 billion. kr to more teachers in primary school. It is primarily the teachers who make a difference for students' everyday life, well-being and learning. Since the 2014–2015 school year, more than 20 000 teachers have been offered further training. With the draft budget for next year, about 5,500 new teachers will be offered further training next year. The teacher's vow is a historical commitment to empowerment for teachers and school leaders. Preparing Norway for the future is also about facilitating further education and completing it. The labour market we face will need all kinds of people, not least the skilled. Therefore, the government continues to invest in the professions. We're proposing over 70 million. to improve the quality, recruitment and number of apprenticeships and to establish new places of study in the vocational schools. With this budget, we show that we are serious when we say that vocational training is as important as university education. The professional lines shall be strengthened. Several students have to be given the opportunity to replace the school bench with the lathe. This summer, students were paid study support for the first time in June. The government now proposes that full-time students in higher education and post-secondary education should receive support for about one week from the spring of this year. This is in line with the plan of gradual escalation to 11 months of study support. In the 2018 budget, we are also proposing to increase the allocation of instruments to ensure good Norwegian participation in the EU Framework Programme for Research, Horizon 2020. A strong commitment to higher education and research is both a prerequisite and an instrument for a more competitive business, greener jobs and more world-leading trade unions. Life science is one of the main initiatives in the long-term research and higher education plan. The government is proposing 50 million. kr for start-up grants for a new building for life sciences at the University of Oslo. With the government's draft budget, all the numerical targets in the long-term plan have been met during this period. The government's preliminary estimate of appropriations for research and development in 2018 is a total of 35,4 billion. kr. The budget also continues to focus heavily on knowledge, research and innovation in enterprises. In 2018, it is proposed to spend 4.2 billion. kr more for industrial research and innovation than in 2013. It includes, inter alia: The tax FUNN scheme and the new tax incentive scheme for start-up enterprises. We need more entrepreneurs in Norway. The efforts made in this budget will make a good contribution to jobs and value creation in the coming years. In response to the most severe fall in oil prices of 30 years, the government has been actively using fiscal policy in recent years to combat unemployment. The industry has shown an impressive ability and willingness to change, and we have witnessed that the social partners have taken responsibility and contributed to improving our competitiveness. It's worked. The economic activity is now speeding up. The government is now making it possible for positive developments to continue. We conduct responsible economic policies that promote growth, get more people to work and maintain a sustainable welfare society. We're continuing to bet on transportation. We build more road and track. We focus on the simplification, efficiency and digitisation of the public sector. We facilitate the jobs of the future by continuing to invest in knowledge, research and innovation. We are continuing to implement the tax reform. We reduce taxes to make it more profitable to create Norwegian jobs and to work more. We invest in the police and the defence, for increased security in everyday life and better preparedness in an uncertain time. We strengthen the ability of municipalities to provide more and better welfare services. We are raising the level of efforts for vulnerable children, helping those outside, and proposing new measures to get more people back to work. This strengthens the welfare of the government today and secures Norway for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e452	The President will propose that a comment round be opened, limited to one entry from each batch group, with a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. After each post from the opposition parties, the Minister of Finance will be given an opportunity to comment for up to 2 minutes. Thereafter, the representative of the opposition party is given the opportunity to comment on the final report for up to 2 minutes. Furthermore, it is proposed that a comment by the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister be opened up in up to 3 minutes to the end. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President requests that the whole round of comments be taken from the interlocutors on the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e465	Let me first congratulate the Minister of Finance on his re-election. I have to admit that there were some of us who had the hope of saying «Morna, Jensen» in this debate. Instead, it was "Morn again, Jensen," and we will live with that. Norway is on its way out of the crisis that the Progress Party and the Right thought we had never been in, and that is positive. But it was supposed to be missing, too. The record low interest rate, a decline in the price of the crown and a very moderate wage settlement contribute greatly. Pensioners and workers have experienced a decline in wages, disability and disability, while the richest have more. The question now is: do we make sure that everyone can participate in the procession? Are we using growth to prepare Norway for the future? Yesterday, in the debate on the throne, the major tasks in Norway were described. Today, words were to be made into action. One of the three out of the labour market — yesterday the Prime Minister said that the most important thing, most importantly, was to equip people for working life. It was then to be believed that her government budget had a strong commitment to this. But no, there's hardly any trace left. According to the NHO, we need 300,000 more jobs in ten years. The Workers' Party has launched a business policy plan to achieve this goal. In the state budget, there is hardly any trace of such a policy on nutrition. Every year 15 000 young people leave school without completing secondary education. The Workers' Party has proposed a massive effort on early schooling for young people. Once again, the Right Party and the Advance Party agreed, but in the state budget it is hardly noticeable. One hundred million. Dr in the earmarked effort for early school-leaving students – NOK 35000 per school – may be money for an extra day-seminar for teachers. Elder care is going to take a lot of us. But the Progress Party and the Right, which have achieved the greatest increase in oil money use in history, has managed to do this without preparing us for the rapidly increasing number of older people who need safe care. With regard to climate, where we have called for more action, greater ambitions, new technology – once again, the Right Party and the Advance Party agree, they even talk about sustainable well-being. The government budget would then be thought to follow up. But no, there are hardly any noticeable measures. There's nothing to say in the government's description of all the problems we have to solve. But they do very little. Erna Solberg is absolutely right, the budget is passive. Words are not followed by action. My question is: what is the reason why Siv Jensen does not use this increased space of action – the great words from the throne – to concrete action in the budget, in particular that she is adding to a budget that has a professional participation that is flat in the coming years, and the proportion of jobs is increasing minimally?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e486	Let me first thank you for the congratulations. I would also like to congratulate Mr Trond Giske on his new tasks as a financial spokesman for the Workers' Party. There'll probably be a lot of duels in time to come. Firstly, I am pleased that the Workers' Party shares the government's description of reality. However, many of the instruments and measures requested by the representative Giske are, after all, full of them in this budget. The basis for the growth we are now seeing has been created through years of efforts in industrial policy, in fiscal policy, in transport policy, in research policy, in education policy. All these measures do give results. Now we see that the arrows are spinning. We see that the growth is taking place. We see that more people come to work. That's good news. It is an image that we need to reinforce, and that is why we are continuing to phase in the tax reform. That is why we continue to allocate more money to build infrastructure. That is why we continue to invest in research and education. It is wrong when the representative Giske claims that we are not doing enough early work in school or to get more people to finish. It is rather the opposite of what the government prioritises. We give priority to early schooling, and we have a strong commitment to the professions. I fully agree that more people must complete. That's why we also have to raise the status of these educations. This is done both by strengthening efforts, by making education more relevant and by facilitating more people to complete it. I am pleased that we are betting on it, while at the same time we have an offensive climate action. The working party has nothing to do with delivering results in climate policy. It is during the cooperation between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that emissions in Norway are beginning to decline. It's because we've used good and effective tools, which are primarily about rewarding rather than using whips.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e499	I thank the Minister for the answer. In the last period, the Progress Party and the Right made sure that ordinary people got seven dollars a day in tax cuts. According to VG, the richest got 160 times more. At the same time, we experienced cuts in the child supplement for disabled people, cut back on car support for disabled people, and cut back on the retirement allowance for the elderly unemployed. The Labour Party said we're going to have to choose more clearly between well-being and tax cuts. In the election campaign, the Progress Party and the Right said that it was completely wrong, it was still possible to strengthen well-being strongly and provide large tax cuts at the same time. The main budget table is on page 52. The action space in the years to come is described here, and it is described as 4 billion. kr per year. There is hardly enough to cover the transport plan and the defence plan. Once you do that, there's zero left in the action space. On top of this, Siv Jensen promised up to 50 billion kroner. kr annually in tax cuts. It's not going to work at all. It is right to ensure that different property items are taxed equally. That is why we supported and participated in the corporate tax reform. But it is wrong to give net tax relief to those with large assets. That is why we want to adjust this change at higher rates. We already see it in the budget: cut off the district budget, cut off the daily allowance, cut off labour market measures, a tight local economy. In a press release today, KS says that they believe the budget can affect people with mental retardation, disabilities and people with drug problems or mental disorders. The worst thing is that the Progress Party and the Right knew this when they were on TV in the election campaign, because the budget was finished. So when they said there was no contradiction between welfare and tax cuts, they knew about these cuts already. The working party is going to say no to reducing the income that covers health, care for the elderly and school. We're going to bet on a Norway with little differences, that we take care of each other, and that those who have the most contribute the most. In fact, we believe that the new majority in the Biggest will agree with us the most, and we are looking forward to an exciting budget harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e516	I understand that the representative Giske is disappointed. When he was Minister of Industry, he called for a large cut in the taxes on wealth, and he does not get that with this budget. Norway has been through difficult times, but we now see that the arrows point in the right direction. Freedom is on its way down, growth is on its way up, and new jobs are being created. The proposal for a State budget facilitates the continuation of positive developments and the arrangements for the use of oil money are well adapted to the situation in the Norwegian economy. Although much is going well in Norway, we are still facing some major challenges that need to be solved. The low-carbon society must be realised, the public sector must be modernised, the economy must be transformed and more young people must be brought into the labour market. The state budget for 2018 responds well to these challenges. The government continues to strengthen the security network for many of those who need our common help most. Patients who struggle with intoxication and mental illness should continue to be given priority. We're going to have a lift in child protection, and we're going to be more committed to mental-health care for children in child protection. The specific efforts made by young unemployed under 30 years of age and long-term unemployed in need of job-oriented services are to be continued. In 2014, the government established a national grant scheme against child poverty. In 2018, EUR 224 million will be invested. kr of this scheme as, inter alia, shall contribute to the participation of children from socially and economically disadvantaged families in holiday and leisure activities. One of the most important things that politicians can do is to help children get a good start in life. The government, therefore, strengthens its early efforts in kindergarten and school. The next year’s government budget contains a number of clear priorities in other important areas. The government continues to invest in health. Since the government joined, health cows have been considerably shorter and waiting times have been reduced. In 2018, waiting times will be further reduced, but the government will also find room for investment in hospitals in Drammen and Nordmøre and Romsdal, new clinic building at the Radium Hospital, expansion and modernisation of the hospital in Haugesund and several hospital and care facilities. Another obvious priority on the part of the government is transportation. The historic promise on the road, track and public transport that the government parties and the Left and Christian People's Party are united is being continued in the 2018 budget. The upgrading of the defence will continue in 2018, in line with the ambitions of the long-term plan. The government also grants 660 million. kr to new national emergency centre. The government has steered Norway safely through four turbulent years of refugee crisis and oil price falls. Most estimates suggest that the economic upturn is now continuing. That's good news, because increasing economic growth means more in work. Several workers mean increased incomes and lower costs for the community, smaller differences and a more sustainable welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e537	As the representative Giske, I live well with Siv Jensen as Minister of Finance, and fortunately the Norwegian people and the voters live well by the fact that the government has been given new trust for four new years. On our guard, for the four years we've been behind us, we've been facing major challenges. In particular, the refugee crisis and the oil price drop have marked the previous period. I am very pleased that it is Siv Jensen who has our finance minister in that period and has managed Norway safely. The starting point when we're here today is much more positive, and that's good growth in the economy. More free hands are now coming to work. When the economic activity speeds up, the state has to give less gas in order not to weaken the ability of Norwegian companies to compete internationally. This budget is adapted to the situation and is designed not to put extra pressure on the krona, interest rates and Norwegian competitiveness. The Minister of Finance takes good care of the budget and facilitates the continuation of positive developments. For the Progress Party, it's always about not only how much money we spend, but also about how we're going to use the tax dollars, because we can focus on getting through with fewer possible tax dollars, so that people and businesses can keep a little more themselves, and thus increase the value creation. The government proposes tax havens that promote growth and investment in Norwegian jobs. In line with the tax agreement, we lower the tax rates for businesses and people, and those who followed the election campaign, notice that we in the Progress Party are talking a lot about the property tax that Norwegian municipalities are increasingly taking in. Already now the Minister of Finance announces that we are taking action in the field of property tax. There is a change in equipment, and there is also a change in the rates, which sends a clear signal to Norwegian municipalities that a bill cannot be sent to the inhabitants, and at least it does not increase as much annually as one could have done with today's legislation. The representative, GIS, the press release on municipal economics. Then I think I have to remind you that the result for 2016 was the best in this millennia, and in 2017 we put more money on the table of a local government sector that has already received four years with good results from this government and this large-scale majority. So everything is possible that municipalities can provide good welfare services even in the years to come, while at the same time they can manage without sending the bill in the form of property taxes to the inhabitants. The reason why we can use a budget for the bet is that we focus on improving efficiency, which we expect municipalities to do. So do we in the state. The red tape and efficiencies reform provides a space for action to strengthen and further develop the welfare community. So this is a good budget for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e552	Once again, we have received a budget from Minister of Finance Siv Jensen — a budget for greater differences between people, greater differences between cities and countries. But there are also several things that repeat themselves. In 2013 the Progress Party said they could guarantee that it was toll-free throughout the country. It was the electoral vow of the Progress Party in 2013. Fasitence after four years: 120 billion. kr in adopted new toll projects – from a Minister of Finance of the Progress Party, from a Minister of Transport of the Progress Party. In 2017, party leader Siv Jensen was active in the party leader debates, very clear, very clear: No to property taxes, property taxes are to be removed, it is an abomination. But what is in the draft budget? It says that we should introduce a new property tax legislation. So, in the electoral material of the Advance Party, it should not say, ‘If you want to remove the unfair property tax, you must vote in the Advance Party’, but, ‘If you want a new legislation, you must vote in the Advance Party’. Furthermore, it states that no municipalities that already have property taxes will receive reduced income as a result of this proposal and that the legislation will start to apply in 2019. So there's nothing going to happen in a reduced property tax on housing for the people who voted in the Progress Party, for the first two years. It is almost incredible that the Minister of Finance could go in an election campaign and promise it and know that it is the opposite in her budget. Who gets the tax dollars? Once again, it's commuting. The fifty richest got about. 1 billion. kr in tax cuts in the previous four-year period. Now some of it is going to be financed by the fact that those who cannot live in a owner-occupied dwelling will get 750 million. kr more in tax. What kind of profile is that? Time after time, Siv Jensen and the Progress Party have attacked those who have to go far to work. This year it is the diet and the losji – with 750 million. kr – to be taken. It's incomprehensible. It's a completely wrong distribution profile. We are totally dependent on people being willing to go to work. The Progress Party accused the Center Party of blackmailing district policy in the election campaign, so I thought there would be some positive new grip in this budget. But what is happening in the field of digitization, which was one of the great promises of the throne? Well, there's half the support for expanding broadband around Norway. Direct clock! It can't be that one million of us aren't going to have high-speed networks. It cannot be that farms around the country should not have high-speed broadband. The progress party cutters. And then you cut the district policy instruments again this year by 20 pst. You've halved them in the time you've been driving. Unfortunately, we have a new budget that contributes to greater differences between people, greater differences between cities and countries. It is incredible that a finance minister should stand and promise to cut property taxes on housing in the election campaign and propose the opposite in his first budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e570	I must say I'm almost disappointed that there was this Battle Violence Vedum was able to get out of next year's state budget. So he had to go back four years in time and get an old promise from the Progress Party when he was going to talk about what's in the state budget for 2018. It shows that this is a good budget, when the Battle of Vedum is unable to find anything else to criticise. So in the case of property taxes, we're proposing to remove the property tax on works and use, and I guess, with the flaming commitment we just heard from Battle Violence Vedum, he's going to wholeheartedly support this proposal, which is going to be a good tool for our businesses all around the district of Norway. Then comes the claim that we're going to get rid of the commuting. Well, this is a deduction scheme that primarily benefits EEA citizens. But here too we have something new from the Battle of Vedum, a strong and good embrace of EEA citizens, and at the top of it all, a system that invites you to engage in extensive fraud and abuse. I believe that we should be concerned about having good tax deductions. They should be targeted and accurate, and we should ensure that we have a tax system that does not invite abuse. That's why the government has suggested doing something about it. And when, in addition, there is a system that primarily helps people living in central areas, then the claim that this affects people living in the districts does not hold true. This is rather the opposite of a good budget for districts – because we continue to reduce taxes, because we continue to strengthen industrial policy, because we continue to build more infrastructure, because we are betting on research and development. It is possible that there has not yet been a proper outcome for Battle Violence Vedum, but it is doing well in District Norway – because the government is pursuing offensive tax policies and industrial policies. The districts do not live by subsidies; they live by good, competitive framework conditions. That's why the growth in the Norwegian economy is rising, unemployment is falling, and we see it flourishing all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e581	Why is it that I promise from the Progress Party in 2013? Because you did the opposite over the four years. There have never been more tolls, there have never been more fuel charges. But the Progress Party said the opposite. Then, in this election campaign, you promised to remove the property tax on housing, and then in the first draft budget, there is no removal, but amendment of legislation, which means that there will still be property tax. It doesn't seem like you mean what you say in a campaign. You just say it then because you think it's wise. It's a basic wrong way to run politics. It is also quite wrong that when tax incentives are to be made, it is against those who have extra costs, for example. in the case of a job – here with 750 million. kr. It's not a good policy to put the whole country into practice. That's what's so important also when we're discussing broadband: of course we have to try to get the last two percent in Oslo that don't have broadband – here it's 98 pst. - And it's got to be. But then we also have to expand in those states where it, in many places, is approx. half of them, so that the entire country can take part in the digital promise, that everyone has high-speed networks. Then it is so unwise that the government cuts in just that kind of instruments. It is also very unwise to cut district policies, because it allows us to lift up areas that are struggling. One of the nice things about Norway is that we've lifted each other. If it is a city that is struggling – or South-West when it was an oil crisis – we will lift them up. If it's a district that's struggling, we'll lift them up. This has been the Norwegian success, the Norwegian model, that we have used fiscal policy to balance differences, not to reinforce differences, and that we have used budgetary policy to raise those areas of the country that have additional challenges, just as we did when it was an oil and gas crisis a few years ago. So, unfortunately, the Progress Party has not become a party that prioritises people most when they gain power. It's those who have the most who have been the big winners. It's not the people who work on Rema who have been relieved; it's the one who owns Rema, who has been relieved. It's a basic wrong course, it's a course for greater distinction between people, greater distinction between city and country, and it's a wrong course for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e593	In the past few days, many have said from this pulpit that the government is more gray than blue. I disagree. These are policies, these are priorities, and those priorities are blue, not grey, and the blue policy is not what Norway and the world now need. We're facing bigger challenges than we do for a long time. The serious consequences of climate change hit us as inequalities grow between countries and people. The greatest refugee disaster since World War II is shaking us, and in several countries frustration and extreme cancers are growing. The government doesn't have the ability to learn from these experiences. In Norway, differences are also increasing. Nearly 100,000 young people grow up in poor families, because many young people are out of work, and the housing market is deeply unfair. We have committed ourselves to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but how, and when, we still have very few answers. Norway is still too oil dependent. The industry does not get the help they need for greening in the face of tougher international competition. The government's message to us is that the golden age is over, but it obviously only applies to most people, not to them at the top – and not to the government, because they spend the money and opportunities for future generations. That is the government's priority. In 2020, the climate agreement shall be honoured. Within that time, greenhouse gas emissions shall have decreased. The state budget presented today shows that the government is breaking the climate agreement. They will not admit it, and they will not put forward any new measures to reduce emissions. The government is finding new money for motorway development in key strokes and investment in new oil industry, but they are postponing railway projects and technology development in industry. The green tax change is gone. The government will not make it more expensive to pollute. That's the government's priority. With the blessing of the Workers' Party, the government has found money to give tax cuts to the richest. This year it's going to give 160,000 more to each of them with wealth over 100 million. kr, next year it will be even more. At the same time, they cut off the cash for people who have lost their jobs. That's the government's priority. The government is committed to streamlining efficiency. We can't afford to waste, says the Minister of Finance. The government has now asked the government to submit proposals for changes to ensure that the tax money goes to well-being and not to profit, and the answer came today: The government will do nothing about it. We do not need money, we do not need redistribution, and that is the government's priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e610	Let me first congratulate the representative Kaski as a member of the Financial Committee. We'll have a lot of good debates. I think the comment on this budget was written before it was read, because this is a budget that just facilitates to reduce differences and to get more people to work. And I fully agree with the representative Kaski that one of the most important things we do to reduce differences is to get more people to work. That's why this is a budget that's just shaped by the line of work, where we take a lot of action, from kindergarten to upstairs, to make it easier to qualify more and get more people into work. Then we also need to facilitate the ability of business to employ more and make new investments. That is why it is so infinitely important that we continue to phase in the tax reform, that we continue to build up infrastructure, and that we focus on research and education. I understand, according to what Kaski says, that SV is now going to vote against all new road development, as she believes it is wrong to give priority to further road construction. I disagree. I think we have to be able to build roads across the country while building up the rest of the infrastructure, it's rail or good collective effort in the big cities. Saying that the green tax shift is gone in this budget is the best sign that this is not read, because we are continuing the green tax shift in this budget. We continue to deliver CO 2 charges that are similar. And then, of course, the debate on welfare profiters comes up again. Here the government disagrees with SV. We believe that having diversity and freedom of choice strengthens the quality of individuals, increases the freedom of choice of individuals, and we need more of that, not less. The SV and the Progress Party were the initiators of the kindergarten conciliation. One of the pillars of the agreement was to facilitate non-discrimination between private and public actors. That's why we got full babysitting. I have to say that I think it is alarming that it is the actors who gave the result ‘full child care coverage’ SV now to go after and destroy the framework conditions for. I disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e626	So today we could have got a budget for distribution and for the future, for justice and the environment, it could have taken responsibility for the climate and put concrete cuts in emissions. It doesn't. It could have removed the rough cut that has been in the care allowance system and in the unloaded children's allowance. We could have gotten more teachers and given the child's peace of mind what it needs. This is therefore a sad day. It's a lost opportunity, and there's going to be a lot of work for the Stortinge in the future. We see that spending the big money on the big tax cuts for the richest is a choice, so when the government comes and tells us that most people have to prepare for the narrower and tighter times, it's almost impossible to believe, because they're cutting in cash, they're giving up the people who need it the most, they're cutting in the hospital sector, and they're raising the maximum price in the kindergarten, and they think it's really great that the tax dollars are going away for private profit and purchase funds. I hear the Minister of Finance saying that this is a budget that reduces both differences and greenhouse gas emissions. It's not. That job Stortinget has to take. We're going to do that job. We can only conclude that the government continues its policy of increasing differences, oil dependence and increased greenhouse gas emissions. It'll be Stortingen's job to make sure we get a budget for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e635	Some of the best things about Norway is a society of small differences, equivalency and almost equal opportunities for all, regardless of the background and social status of the family, a community of community solutions that makes little Toves of five, with parents living out of disability and social assistance, have the same freedom to realize their own dreams through life as Birthe, eight years, with parents in leading high-paid positions in academic and business life – qualities and values we must never take for granted, always seek to improve and develop. As long as there are young people who grow up in poverty, young people who lose faith in their own abilities, or adults who do not find meaningful work or labor in other ways, we are not in the finish line. For social liberals, the left is better always possible. For this reason, the Left has been a guarantee that the kindergarten and the SFO are more accessible to more people, that the school will be even better able to see each individual as the unique individual we are, and that it will be easier to create and secure jobs. The fact that the state budget in such a context is also resilient both in terms of climate and oil money usage is decisive for the freedom of future generations. The government's draft budget is a good starting point. It is reasonably well adapted to the economic reality, and the results of the Council of State did well instead, speaking a clear language that the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Government Party have led together for the last four years, have been quite right and successful. I also understand that the government prioritises health, culture, police and defence. The task of the left hand side will be taken into account strengthening the commitment to knowledge and the fight against poverty. Then I register that the government does not follow the agreements on zero emission cars, by proposing a one-time charge that happens to the heaviest cars – a proposal that probably hits a nerve out there, and that many on the spinal cord no longer recognize, since it still applies to the most expensive cars. If this is well thought out, there is still reason to ask questions about it. We haven't crossed more than 100,000 electric cars out of a total of 2.6 to 2.7 million cars – it's a long way to the goal – and it's in spite of all these cars that have shown road and innovation when it comes to range and standard, and that have made electric cars a real first choice. If the proposal will also weaken the necessary investment in electric cars in the motor vehicle market, then another question is the Left natural addresses both here today and in the forthcoming negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e646	I am pleased that the representative Breivik shows that this is a very good starting point. It is quite right, as the representative Breivik says, that much of what is in this budget has become in cooperation between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. That is why we are following up our national transport plan, and that is why we are following up many important climate initiatives that we have agreed on. Then I understand that the Left is going to sit down in negotiations here in the Great Britain to improve the budget in areas that are important to them. It was just supposed to be missing. Let me just say a few words about the one-time charge on the heaviest electric cars. In this budget, we take many steps that together also strengthen the electric car benefits. We follow up on the agreement of the four parties, which means the cancellation of the registration fee for electric cars, and that means the cancellation of the traffic insurance fee for electric cars. We also do it in line with the agreement so that it is the chargeable hybrids that can go the longest on battery, which are premiered in the one-off charging system. All of this, I believe, makes it possible for the bet on low- and zero-emission cars in the charging system to continue and strengthen in the future. But it is also not to get away from the fact that it is the heaviest and biggest cars that practice the most wear on our roads, and it is also a factor we have to include in this, because it is not just about emissions of CO2. It's also about particulate matter and other issues, and I think we need to be able to see that in a context and in a whole. But I'm sure that when we sit down and discuss this, we find good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e655	Thank you to the Council of State for your comment. I would like to stress that this is probably a happy day for entrepreneurs, self-employed and established businesses. Several more of the measures negotiated by the Left in previous budgetary agreements, which make life easier for those who create jobs, are now being implemented. There will be changes in the taxation of options, so that options become more complementary to normal pay for start-ups with little or no ignition. Self-employed people are now getting pension saving conditions almost as good as wage earners. Not least, it is nice to say that the new investment fund, Renewable AS, a married left-born child, is now being operationalised, a fund which hopefully will contribute to much more of all the exciting technology developments taking place in the Norwegian industry, taking the important step from the experimental stage to the market. If it's something that's really district policy – see. two lines back – there must be this type of action, which means that the degrees guarantee jobs in the districts. The fact that the main priority of the government in fiscal policy is the follow-up to the tax settlement — with additional tax reduction on what we want more of, jobs and work — is very good and reinforces such a commitment further. It is also good that the government suggests a certain enhanced green tax shift. Making it even more attractive and profitable to make climate-friendly choices in everyday life and corporate governance rooms is likely to be a priority for the left-hand side. Overall, the draft budget is a good starting point for the negotiations on the Stortinget. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Government Party, we have set behind us eight budgetary negotiations in which we have always been in agreement, and where the results of the negotiations then until those degrees have been good for the country and social development. It's the Left's plan to contribute to this time as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e668	I also congratulate the Minister of Finance on being allowed to continue and, not least, congratulate her on presenting such happy figures. Because growth goes up, unemployment goes down, and we're very happy about that. Work is the key – whether it is for individuals to realise their potential to generate income for the family, or it is for society to be able to solve the challenges we need to solve together. I am pleased that the efforts of the Christian People's Party together with the government and the Left have been making in the last four years are helping to lay the foundation for precisely the growth and strengthening of the economy. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the effort to create jobs continues. We need to strengthen transport and education. We have to follow up the tax settlement, and I'm glad that the government does that way. There's a lot of good in this budget. There is a clear commitment to health, to transport, police, defence and in several sectors. But there are also a number of areas in which we in the Christian People's Party respond. There's a tax boost for the families. It's in a more expensive kindergarten. It's not a matter for which the Christian People's Party is happy and would give priority if we were to make the budget. There is a lack of commitment to early school work. We're dedicated to strengthening and helping the kids who fall out early. We're involved in prevention. Then we know that investing in more teachers for the youngest students is one of the most important measures. We also see that there is a grip on the benefit base for daily allowances – a very large proceeds are collected. It's a matter that we want to go into, so it won't be an unfair cut. We also believe that the budget is too passive on climate. We see climate change moving forward – they are more critical. We need to do more, and that is why we need to give priority to it in the negotiations. We also see that although there is a strengthening of assistance, the government does not succeed this time in meeting the target of 1 pst. in assistance. So there we need to have a good dialogue with the Minister for Foreign Affairs – possibly the new Minister for Foreign Affairs – to succeed in keeping us high on aid, but not least the facility. For it has been heard throughout the campaign that the government, especially the Advance Party, is busy helping the poorest where they are. The budget is 1 300–1,400 billion. kr, and it makes sense that there will be points of disagreement. But all in all, I also think it is very good, and that is a good reason for negotiations. The Christian People's Party is ready to enter into negotiations with the government parties and the Left – we look forward to it. We have to be constructive, but we also have to make tough demands to help those who need it the most. We need to be clear about this in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e689	I must be allowed to thank the representative, Mr Ropstad, for a positive reference to the main features of the State budget. That is very good, and I agree that there is work that is key to our continuing growth and value creation in Norway in the future. Of course, it's also about the best tool we have to combat poverty, combat child poverty, get more people to work. Then there's no other way to expect than that there's areas of Christian People's Party wanting more. It's not like there's no interest in early school effort. We've come to realize that the Christian People's Party wants that bet to be even stronger, but it's a good budget bet, so at least we have a good starting point. It is also such that although we have a modest increase in the maximum price of kindergartens, those who have the least are protected. That's why it has a good social profile, because those who don't have the back to carry increased kindergarten prices don't pay it. It's those of us who can afford to carry it, who are actually going to do it, and I think that's right in view of the social profile in the budget. So there's a lot to say about the day-to-day pay system. What we're doing with it is, first of all, no change for those who are going on a daily allowance today. There is a more targeted change in the day-to-day arrangements that relates to last-earned money in the last calendar year. It's all about strengthening the line of work, but here, too, we've put in a good social profile, because in the last calendar year, you may have disease-free treatment either because you're sick yourself or because you have sick children. We've expanded the efficiency base by that. So the aid budget is going to increase by 1.3 billion. kr. That means that next year we have an aid budget of over 35 billion. kr. That's a lot of money. Even now, more of this money goes to poor people outside the borders of the country, because we have been controlled by the influx of asylum into Norway. That's good news. That means that more of the aid budget next year can go to those who are poor in other parts of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e702	I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for his comments. I promise to go into the details carefully and look forward to the negotiations. But it's clear that it's missing the yellow profile. The clear footprint of the Christian People's Party is needed, and that is why I am pleased that negotiations are also needed. We aim to make the budget more social, more family friendly and also more environmentally friendly. The Christian People's Party's clear priorities will be to strengthen family flexibility and freedom of choice. We have opted to ensure the ability to combine cash support and kindergarten in a much better way than today. We have opted for more prevention. As the Minister of Finance said, work is a key there. If we are to succeed in ensuring that people come to work, we must both maintain the commitment to the basic systems that create more jobs and help those who are outside today. The fight against outsiders will be important. Human dignity is a key to our promises. Unfortunately, the government has allowed twins away, that one can remove one of the fetuses, that are viable. We want to change that. At least through budgetary negotiations, we can do more to help twin parents and multiple parents to get better arrangements, so that no one chooses to remove one child because of financial arrangements. We've also had a discussion about care money. The government has expanded the basis so that more people get care. That's good, but we see the turmoil among many of the families with heavily nurturing children, who need help. The option for many is institution. That's something we have to look at in the budget. We've also been able to raise the rates for the minimum pensioners in every settlement in the last few years. It's a vulnerable group, which we're also going to lift in. The Christian People's Party also promises that when we enter into the negotiations, we have the international focus with us. We'll never become ourselves enough. That is why I am pleased that the involvement of the world's poorest is so obvious also with the Minister of Finance, because we also promise to promise when – hopefully – we will have a settlement in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e717	I can already say that this is a budget that Stortinget must work a lot on before it becomes a sound budget for the country and for the world. It is a budget that, in our opinion, has a high level of oil money use – that we have a good situation in Norway now. 2.9 pst. The oil fund for oil money is the same as last year, and despite the fact that the rule of action is about having a room for action when we have an economic recession. It is also a budget that, in terms of climate – I would say – is best described with a big question mark. It is very vigilant in terms of measures, and there is a complete lack of climate accounting and a climate budget. There is a small list of measures there, where emissions are also tried. It's an inaccurate list, and that's not the list Stortinget needs to know how we can operate climate management in Norway. You just take some individual measures out of the entire budget and don't look at the whole thing at all. There is also a budget that continues to cut aid to cover integration work in Norway, such as Norwegian and social education. There is also a budget where more organisations are cut. those who work for those who do not have a vote in Norway, namely the animals. Both the NOAH – for animal rights and the Animal Protection Alliance. With this budget, the bill will be sent into the future, because climate change will cost money. The government is now trying to cut 570 million. kr in halting loss of species and nature. Then it's a poor comfort that the government is increasing the rainforest rate by 42 million. kr, for they also cut flat, with cheese requirements, in the Ministry of Climate and Environment on forest protection, on aquatic environmental measures. They also cut to the Nature Conservation Association and Oikos, they cut for climate action and adaptation – amazing. What I think is perhaps the most serious thing is that the government is increasing VAT on public transport. This will make it more expensive to travel by public transport in Norway. I wonder if the government has any information about the public travellers in Norway other than what we are with. For they are concerned about the use of carrots in environmental policy, making it easier to choose environmentally friendly. There is no way to increase VAT on public transport and have a vague wording that there may be compensation schemes. Last year, Oslo got $23 million. kr too little in compensation for the increase in VAT resulting from public transport. The same thing will be possible for us this year if the government does not now promise that it will be compensated for any increase in the public transport tax in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e730	Many of the first comments made by the state budget show that the Storting has had a very short time to read the documents and get involved in them. I assume that when the representative Bastholm reads the documents a little more thoroughly, she will also discover that there are many good, reinforced climate measures in this budget, which will help us to continue reducing emissions in the future. So we're on our way. It is this government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, that has been speeding up emission reductions, through all the means we have put into use, and not least by putting a strong emphasis on collective development in the big cities and on railway development, as well as, of course, other good infrastructure. Then it's not right, as Bastholm claims, that the government cuts in aid. The aid budget is increasing by 1.3 billion. kr. I really think that when the Storting gets a little bit better time to read all the thousands of pages of budget papers, you'll see that this is a forward-looking budget, which facilitates a sustainable welfare society in the future. We've been able to give priority to all of the important problems that we need to solve in the future. It is about facilitating more people to come to work, and it is about facilitating all the changes that are going to take place in Norwegian business for many years to come. Then we need a competitive tax system, we need to invest in infrastructure, we need to invest more in research, and we need to have a good school. This has been reinforced in the budget, along with an enhanced climate profile, along with the fact that we continue to convert the charges in a greener direction. I think it's the wrong medicine, which we often hear from the MDG's side, to make action powerful overnight. It would be harmful for Norwegian jobs, it would be harmful for Norwegian businesses, and it would be detrimental to Norwegian competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e740	I notice that the Minister of Finance did not have a single answer to the increase in collective prices that the entire population of Norway can expect to get on their everyday trips. I also saw that the Minister of Finance had to consult with the co-pilot on that particular point, so I expect the Minister of Finance to also find some time to see how this can be arranged in the future when it has calmed down today. We're going to look for climate action in this budget, and we've already spent the morning on it. So when I say it's a single big question mark, it also means that I'm not saying that it's a budget for heavy emissions, because I could have said that. But it's a big question mark, and it's a serious democratic problem when one of the major challenges Norway is going to face – both for us as a solidarity country and for our economy – is just about climate change. Norway is also obliged to take action against the rest of the world, and the only thing I see coming from the government now is promises to talk a lot with the EU and use the flexible system there. We will need binding targets for emissions reduction in Norway both in the non-quota sector and in the quota sector. Then it's a shame that it's the collective travellers who have to pay the price for the kingdom of Norway to get tax relief from this government. I also think it is serious that you choose to spend so much oil money at a time when things are going well. The state pension fund abroad is also double-exposed to oil and gas and fossil fuels, making the whole of Norway's economy vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e749	Today, all the world’s finance ministers are envious of Siv Jensen. I even believe that Christmas Eve envys Jensen's 6 billion fresh oil crowns she has to use for good purposes. But Jensen does not use the opportunity to correct any of yesterday's faults, such as reintroducing the children's supplement for the disabled, which she took from them, nor to reinstate the holiday money for the unemployed, which she also took from them, nor to ensure that the families with the most seriously ill children receive the care they need. Instead, the Advance Party and the Right priority is to use half of the fresh funds to cut taxes by 3 billion. kr. Behind this number lies both tax cuts and tax increases. The cuts in the tax companies have to pay, the cuts in the tax shareholders pay on wealth, but then they increase the tax for workers who live on set-aside. I would therefore like to congratulate Siv Jensen on one thing: she has introduced a new brand day in Norway. For the fifth consecutive year, the day the government presents its budget has become the day of increased differences in practice. The government will file for the unemployed. They want to save 305 million. kr by shortening the vesting period from three to one year. It's dramatic in today's situation, how many go in and out of smaller job jobs with uncertain income. There are already too many people who fall outside the day-to-day arrangements, especially the long-term unemployed. This is another step in the wrong direction. It is also special that a finance minister from the Progress Party is in favour of increased taxes, with increased VAT, to take the bus or to go to cinema. There is consumption we should charge more, but that the government points out cinema tickets and tram tickets as stagings, surprises. This is environmental policy in reverse countries. For four years there has been darkness in Norwegian politics, but that does not mean that it looks equally dark to everyone. What for some may be the worst of times is for others the best of times. Share speculators can applaud this budget. The same applies to all luxury homes, as barriers to the introduction of property taxes are being put in place. This budget reminds me a little of the 'Snooman' film: high expectations, high money consumption, with a result that hardly deserves dice throw 2. The difference is that the «Snowman» only lasts for two hours, and that it is allowed to go halfway, while the government budget must we live with the whole next year. The most positive thing to say about the budget is that it doesn't have a majority behind it yet. It's going to be an interesting harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e766	I have to admit that I did not expect applause from the representative of Moxnes – neither did I. I think I should remind you that what the government is doing in the tax field is following up on a broad settlement in the Stortinget that almost all the parties on the Storinget have put themselves behind. It's about facilitating Norwegian-owned businesses by exempting working capital. It's a principle that a broad majority of the Storing has stood behind – it's possible that Moxnes has been going to stand on the outside of it. It is therefore about facilitating and strengthening Norwegian-led enterprises and creating more jobs in the future. I think that is necessary. People should have a job to go to. It is possible that Moxnes believes that there are jobs anywhere should be created in the public sector. We believe that they need to be created in the private sector, in order to create more values, so that we can safeguard our well-being and pay our bills. This is not the day for increased differences, rather on the contrary: it is a budget that allows more people to get into work, that more people can live on their own income, that more people can get out of poverty traps. This is why we will continue to work to reduce differences by ensuring a good social profile and by ensuring that more jobs and more values are created in the country in the future. It is not surprising that the Right Party and the Advance Party consider it appropriate to tax consumption. It's a principle these parties have been for. It is much better to tax consumption than to tax work. It's a good principle, which we use when we turn on and make changes in our tax bases. Having lower taxes on work makes it more profitable to work, and it becomes profitable to work more. We have to facilitate that so that more people can live on their own income. This is a good budget, which aims primarily to reduce disparities, create more jobs and increase value creation in Norway, so that we can safeguard our well-being in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e779	Siv Jensen wants a sustainable well-being. We only ensure that if the tax will is great, and if people see that their tax money is used in a good way. In the autumn, the media revealed that buying-in funds in tax havens own Norwegian child protection. Return on capital of these companies is sky high – it is more than 20 pst. Is it sustainable that the citizens' tax money, which was to go to the most vulnerable children among us, will go to Luxembourg, to Guernsey and to Cayman Islands? We see the same undermining of the sustainability of well-being in kindergarten. The right-hand man Benn Eidissen cashet in 250 million. kr when he sold his commercial kindergarten business in winter. So did the investor Even Carlsen in the same company. Is it sustainable with half a billion dollars in private profits on the citizens' tax money? This week the media revealed that the return on capital of some commercial kindergarten groups is above 100 pst. per year. In the ordinary course of business, the yield is about 6 pst. per year. We're talking about a superprofit on our tax dollars that you barely find anywhere else. Drug sales are likely to have to be conducted in order to find a corresponding return. This type of profit on common taxation must end. If we don't stop this huge waste of taxpayers' taxes, we will undermine and destroy the sustainability of our common well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e790	The Siv Jensen Council has the floor for a final comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e795	Let me start by thanking you for a good and preliminary response to the government budget for next year. I actually feel that the feedback is good in the big picture. Many of the comments have gone far down in relatively small details. This suggests that the government has found a good balance and clearly taken care of the most important things for our country and for our citizens in next year's budget. As I have said many times, it is primarily a budget that facilitates work, more jobs, that our companies should continue to safeguard their competitiveness, so that they can invest more and facilitate more jobs. We need to do much more of that in the transition that Norwegian business and Norwegian economy will continue to go on for many years. Then we need good, predictable and competitive framework conditions – whether for tax, for regulation or for legislation – and that we continue to invest in research and development, in a good school system, in infrastructure construction and in everything that is important to us. Just a few brief comments. The representative Kaski was injured to say that the government cuts in the hospital budget. So that's wrong. Hospital budgets grow by 2 pst. Next year, which means more money to continue to reduce waiting times, and fewer patients are going to stand in line. That's good news for the patients. In addition to this, we are launching several major new hospital projects, which are about upgrading worn-out buildings and building new buildings. It's going to mean an incredible amount for patients, for relatives and not least for employees, who are making a fantastic effort to improve patient quality around this country. So many have been injured to repeat some worn-out flakes, as they have just become a little too happy to use: tax havens for the rich. So this is not a budget with tax relief for the rich. It is a budget that follows a broad tax settlement, to which the vast majority of the parties in this Chamber have joined. I think you might need to find a little new rhetoric and a new vocabulary when you talk about fiscal policy for next year's budget. Then there were questions about the increase in the low VAT rate. So here's a system in which passenger transport has contracts for compensation for any price increase. This is the case for NSB, for local collective services, for national and county roads. This really also applies to some flights. So this compensation scheme now applies, as it did the last time the low VAT rate was increased, and really means very little for those who have to pay more. There are very small increases, but in return we have the opportunity to reduce the tax on work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e808	So we're done with case no. 1st@item: inlistbox The President will propose that the Minister of Finance's statement on the government's draft government budget and on the national budget for 2018 be discussed at a later meeting. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-12.ana.ud117e826	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
