ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e80	Former Major Lauritz Bernhard Sirevaag is dead, 90 years old. Lauritz B. Sirevaag was born on 14 March 1926 in Stavanger. He took the degree artium in 1947 and then trade education. From 1948 to 1965 he was head of department of Sandnæs Dampskips- Aktiesgesellschaft, and then transferred to A/S Norske Esso. Sirevaag was a member of Sandne's city government from 1963 to 1971. From 1967 to 1969 he was the rapporteur in Sandnes. He left the rapporteur's office when he was elected to the Parliament of the Right in Rogaland in 1969. Sirevaag spent eight years on the Stortinget and was a member of the Social Committee and the Industry Committee. In both committees he was a very active representative, but it was probably the business policy that was closest to his heart. He was a delegate to the UN General Assembly and was a deputy to the board of directors of the Stortinges Group of the IPU. After the years at Stortinget, Sirevaag was employed by the Rogalandsbank as bank manager. In 1990 he became Deputy Managing Director of the same place, and after the merger with Focus Bank he was the district bank manager of Rogaland until he left retirement in 1992. Sirevaag got a comeback in politics when, in 1987, he was elected to Rogaland County. Here he sat for the whole of 12 years – the first four years also as a member of the County Committee. Sirevaag had a number of public missions. He was, among other things, Chairman of the Business Assembly of Great Norske, member of the Executive Board of the District Development Fund and member of the Telewerk Council. He also had a number of boards in business and trust in sports. Lauritz B. Sirevaag was a socialist of rank and followed up both in politics and in society for the rest. He was an honorary member of the Rogaland Right, and it was well deserved that Lauritz B. Sirevaag in 1998 received the King's medal in gold in 1998. Lauritz B. Sirevaag was a politician with clear opinions, but he never rescued the chauffeur. He was always concerned about finding good solutions. This also contributed to his good mood and friendly association. We remember Lauritz B. Sirevaag for his work in the Storting, and shine peace over his memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e103	The representatives of the Kåre Simensen and Hans Olav Syversen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the South Tribute County, Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik, now takes the seat. A number of permit applications are available: by the representatives of Inbjørg Amanda Godskesen and Morten Wold on leave on 25 and 26 April and by the representatives of Lise Christoffersen, Frank J. Jensen and Ingjerd Schou on leave on Tuesday 25 April – all to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg by the Group of the Right on the Permit of the Representative, Øyvind Halleraker, Tuesday 25 April, to attend the meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in London by the Workers' Party Group on the Permit of the Representative Hadia Tajik on Tuesday 25 April to attend a conference in Bergen from the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative of Anette Trettebergstuen as from 25 April until further notice by the Workers' Group on the Welfare Permit of the Representatives of Gunvor Eldegard, Irene Johansen and Tove Karoline Knutsen on Tuesday 25 April These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternates for Oslo and Sør-Trøndelag counties, Prableen Kaur and Marvin Wiseth respectively, there are applications for exemptions from meeting in Stortinget under the representatives Hadia Tajik and Frank J. Jenssen's leave, respectively, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For East Agder County: Lene Langemyr For Akershus County: Are Health For Buskerud County: Laila Gustavsen and Lavrans Kierulf For Hedmark County: Lasse Juliussen For the county of Hordaland: Charlotte Spurkeland For Oslo: Vegard Gröslie Wennesland For the counties of Troms: Sigmund Steinnes For Southern Trøndelag County: Kjetil Reinskou For Eastfold County: Tone Damsleth and Wenche Olsen
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e241	Lene Langemyr, Are Health, Laila Gustavsen, Lavrans Kierulf, Lasse Juliussen, Charlotte Spurkeland, Vegard Grossie Wennesland, Sigmund Steinnes, Ketil Reinskou, Tone Damsleth and Wenche Olsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e253	The representative, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e258	On behalf of the representatives of Marit Arnstad, Kjersti Toppe and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the introduction of the right to full VAT compensation for voluntary organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e264	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e269	On behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Kirsti Bergstø, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for the introduction of a production allowance for the rearing of salmon, aure and rainbow trout within the territorial line.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e274	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e279	On behalf of the major representatives of Kirsti Bergstø, Audun Lysbakken and myself, I would like to put forward a representative proposal to strengthen the care of the elderly through quality-based recruitment standards, more choice for the elderly and a trust reform rather than target management.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e284	The representative, Sivert Bjørnstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e289	On behalf of the big business representatives Erlend Wiborg, Oskar J. Grimstad, Morten Ørsal Johansen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to allow the consumption of alcohol below 22 % by volume in parks.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e294	The representative of Ms Olug V. Bollestad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e299	On behalf of Rigmor Andersen Eide, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal on health care for paperless migrants.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e304	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e309	On behalf of myself, I would like to make a proposal to strengthen patients' right to hospital treatment within a defensive deadline and to introduce full openness on waiting times and waiting lists.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e314	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the Storting should derogate from the first paragraph of Section 59 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after case No. 1 has been completed, and then total voting according to case No. 2 to 11 at the end of the day’s meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will inform you if the meeting continues beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e348	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e359	As the rapporteur of the matter, I would like to thank the entire committee for contributing to a good and informed case, where different views are presented in a transparent and straightforward manner. In particular, the Committee had a limited consultation from different legal environments which provided a good basis for the work of the Committee. Before I go into the various proposals in the case, it might be useful to have a little review of what the Stortinget has decided on various occasions related to the management of wolves in Norway. We can start with the treatment of St.meld. No 15 for 2003–2004, Rovvilt in Norwegian nature. This established the principle of own wolf zone with three annual juveniles. So this was a few years before we got the Natural Diversity Act, and that's why hunting for the wolf was allowed in the wild -- that it must «by means of its own regulations, the licence hunt for wolves shall be opened when there is a surplus in addition to the required stock target. The hunting of wolves may also be carried out in accordance with specified criteria within the management area if this is appropriate for regulating the stock.» In other words, the size was clear that we should have an active management of wolves in the same way as for the other predators. The reference to the place of residence in the wild was for the killing of the bear, the herd, the wolf and the gaupe in order to prevent damage to the buff and the tamrein. In 2009 we received the Nature Diversity Act under the Red-Green Government, and here the question was raised about how the Robbery Agreement from 2004 would be in relation to the new law. The Right Party and the Progressive Party wanted their own legislative wording which said that the administrative objective of the law would not apply to species for which there are other national administrative guidelines. The majority were satisfied with comments which concluded that the government's policy with regard to the largest predators is based on the predatory agreement and that decisions on the nature diversity law do not mean that the principles established there need to be changed. So in 2011, there was a new agreement that all the parties in the Stortinget were behind. The first point of the Decision is that Norwegian wild game management ‘shall take place within the framework of the provisions of the Nature Diversity Act and its treatment by the Storting, the Berne Convention and the two-part objective of the 2004 rapprochement and its follow-up’. The latest chapter of the history of the Great Britain Wolf Decision has been reconciled on the basis of Report. St. 21 for 2015–2016, Wolf in Norwegian nature. Behind this agreement stood the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party and Christian People's Party with a large majority in the Stortinget. The majority once again states that the principles set out in the 2004 and 2011 agreement will form the basis for the further management of Norwegian wolf by nature and a new stock target will be set for four to six young people, including border revirons with a factor of 0,5, and the objective of three helenian juveniles will be maintained. Another thing that happens in 2016 is that for the first time when the population targets are set, we record seven whole-norse juveniles and four in border revir, a total of nine juveniles. So for the first time, the law on natural diversity and the question of licensing were tested because the wolf population was above the stock. Based on the new target of four to six young people, the predatory wildlife names within the zone are decided on the licensing of a total of four flocks. This will be the subject of an appeal, and the Department will repeal the decision, including: having regard to the fact that the nature diversity law does not provide sufficient justification because the damage potential of buff and tamrein was not considered to be large enough. The Council of State made a statement in Stortinget on 17 January. It is debated on 31 January, where the Stortinget asks for a case before 10 March – and here we are now. The Government's proposal is to amend the Nature Diversity Act by inserting the last indent of Article 9 of the Berne Convention into the Nature Diversity Act, which was not done in 2009. The provision states that, on the condition that there is no other satisfactory solution and that the withdrawal will not be harmful to the survival of the population concerned, the Parties may allow, in strictly controlled forms, on a selective basis and to a limited extent, the capture, storage and other discretionary use of certain wild animals and plants in a small number. The Government's proposals have not been accepted by the Committee for various reasons. For the government parties, it was impractical to change the law when one of our cooperation parties did not want to do this. We have, as we know, an agreement for parliamentary work where one of the points is that if the parties do not agree on anything else, the law of natural diversity will remain in place. I leave to the other parties to explain why they do not support the change in the law, but the majority behind the vote has stressed the flexibility that is felt within the law we have. Both the limited consultation of the committee and the different consultation input into the legislative proposal pointed out that there could be a basis for licensing in the natural diversity law § 18 first paragraph, point (c), which refers to general health and safety reasons or other public interests of major importance. The government has also opened up such a discussion in the proposition by writing: ‘However, the sum of private interests could overlap with public interests and what is initially a private interest may become a public interest if it affects a sufficient number. The consideration of the provision of industries such as out-landing and hunting may be relevant in this context. One might also imagine that reduced life expectancy due to the fear of wolf for a larger group of people and over time can be considered to affect public interests.» [[or other large predators]] This gripped the parties behind the 2016 agreement, including with the Central Party, and we put in a new concept, ‘district policy considerations’, as a possible basis of trust. The majority point to a negative impact on, for example: grazing, other industrial activities, hunting, the safety of the local population and psychosocial conditions of a general nature must be considered as factors which can fulfil the condition of territorial policy considerations. The same batches also propose that the predatory game regulations refer to the basis of the nature diversity law instead of the game law that was replaced in 2009. A claim for damages may be covered by Section 18 of the First paragraph of the Nature Diversity Act (b) and a licence application may be made in points (b) and (c) of the first subparagraph. The parties also have a proposal that the majority comments should be taken into account for the further management of the wolf in Norway. All parties, except the Centre Party, are behind a proposal to carry out a professional review of the Norwegian sub-population of wolves. There are also two minority proposals on the management plan and funding for municipalities with wolfevir, which I expect the parties behind to present themselves. So finally some words about solving the proposal that is notified here in the hall today. It may be appropriate to recall that the Nature Diversity Act was passed in 2009 under a different government, and that we now have to test the law against the stock targets for the first time. The majority comments and the majority proposals today seek to address the imbalance between the law and the stock targets set by the Storting. The answer to whether we succeed lies in the hands of this government, the government that comes after the election, and ultimately perhaps in the court. Few things create as steep fronts as how predators, and wolves in particular, should be managed. There's a hairy balance between different interests. All parties on the Stortinget have a responsibility to mitigate the level of conflict. In this case and in similar cases, the right has tried to find solutions that have the widest possible upswing in Stortinget, and I also feel that we have succeeded.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e403	Let me start by thanking the rapporteur for the work in Stortinget, who has been demanding because the committee has not found the basis for the position submitted for consideration in Stortinget, in the legislative proposition promoted by the Government of Stortinget. Let me also draw up a little bit of the story. When the Workers' Party joined a majority on wolf management in Norway in June last year – the so-called wolf settlement – there were two considerations that were absolutely crucial and bearer of the Workers' Party. First of all, we thought it was in place to put in place a government that dampened an increasing conflict between people and society on the one hand and the wolf on the other. Secondly, we would help to ensure the continuation of the two-part objective that has underpinned predatory policies and that through it we could have sustainable management, which ensured a reproductive wolf tribe. I mean – and it is not rejected in any way either – that the two purposes were very good in the position that Stortinget agreed to last June. In the debate held last June in Stortinget, there were no signals from the government or from the Council of State that would indicate that Stortinget’s decision could not be implemented. On the contrary, the State Council of Helgesen, in Stortinget, on 6 June, said: ‘I also record the fact that the majority of the Committee has made several appointments to the Government. It is important to have knowledge-based management, and the government should follow up these tasks. The Ministry of Climate and Environment will follow the changes adopted in the stock target and zone setting so that they can enter into force quickly. We will also inform the entire management of the predatory game of the changes and their consequences for the management." More loyal to the Storting setting, it can hardly be said to be. On that background, of course, the administration started. The regional predators and the statesmen set in motion an administration in line with what was said in the Stortinget. Then the predators came to their conclusion. The decision was appealed, and in December – almost half a year after the Storting had dealt with the matter – the government and the Council of State came with their summary of the complaint. It was then said that there was no licence for the collation of the wolf. But there is an assessment based on a limited part of the Natural Diversity Act, namely the Natural Diversity Act, § 18(b). That decision, of course, meant a massive response, both from the large majority who had assumed that the majority of the Storting was followed up, and not least from the population affected. The conflict escalated quite considerably. Then we ended up with the Council of State being forced to make a statement to the Stortinget, which was held on 17 January with a subsequent debate on 31 January, when the Council of State was very clearly instructed by the Stortinget to come back to Stortinget with a case and a handling that could correspond to what was the basis for the decision of the Stortinget in June 2016. The question immediately after the presentation by the Council of State and after the conclusion had been reached in December was why the provision of § 18(c) of the Law on Natural Diversity had not been used, where it states: «in order to take care of public health and safety interests or other essential public interests.» At the time, the Council of State announced that the preparatory work did not open up for this. But that the Council of State through the bill, which is now being dealt with in the Storting, has not provided the basis for opening up that understanding and the very clear interpretation, to me, is amazing. When the Committee began its work on this matter, all the legal input received by the Committee was very clear and clear that, in order to comply with the decision of the Stortinge of June 2016, it is the understanding and interpretation of Section 18(c) of the Natural Diversity Act that must be the basis. In the light of the clear legal advice given, the Committee has examined and interpreted what we consider to be the basis for understanding in connection with Section 18(c). The majority of the Committee considers very clearly that regional policy considerations must be regarded as a significant public interest, under the Nature Diversity Act § 18, first paragraph, point (c). The majority believe that if the wolf population has a negative impact on the rural policy objective of maintaining a widespread settlement in Norway, it may allow for derogations. The majority would also point out that a complex assessment of different factors needs to determine whether this condition is met. In the setting, we continue to say – to clarify it very clearly from Stortingen's pulpit: ‘The majority would stress that the assessment of whether the conditions covered by the concept of ‘public interest of material importance’ have been met must be carried out in each decision on killing. The majority would point out that licensing is only permitted where withdrawals do not threaten the survival of the stock, no other satisfactory solution has been found, and when the public interest that exists is considered to be essential. ‘... So there's an encroachment according to the law and what it's possible to open up to. The majority further believe and are very clear that such as hunting practice, both as a basis for food and outdoor activities, are important territorial policy considerations that can be given weight if an ever-growing predatory bird population affects deer populations to such an extent that the basis for the hunting exercise is demonstrated to be significantly impaired. So what we in the committee have done very clearly – I could refer to several aspects that the committee specifically refers to – is to say very clearly that Section 18(c) of the Natural Diversity Act is to use also in relation to the management of wolves, in line with what is the purpose of the agreement from June 2016. We also say very clearly that although wolves should have a stronger protection than outside the wolf zone, there should still be room for local nutrition, housing, general social activities and recreational and outdoor activities within the wolf zone, in the same way as in other districts. We even go so far in this majority that we stress that the majority behind the wolf settlement in Stortinget does not want the wolf zone to develop into a wolf reserve. Through three points of the proposal for a decision, and in particular in paragraphs 1 and 2, we are very clear on the expectations of practice. There is an instruction and a very clear clarification of what the government should do – point one is to change regulations. It is unnatural that the Storting points this out, but with the background of the debate and events of June last year, we believe this time that it is natural to do so. We also stress that the majority of comments in this position are to be used as a basis for further follow-up, practice and management of wolves in Norway. What is crucial to the outcome of this case and an assessment related to trust/untrust is, of course, how the government chooses to respond to the setting that has now been submitted. I have a expectation that the Council of State will clearly and crediblely establish that he intends to implement the majority position of the Storting to the point and point, and that perhaps the Prime Minister will confirm it as such. Everything else will be very unfortunate for the predatory game management in Norway. There is now a need to rebuild confidence in management and in the policy that should provide the basis for sustainable predatory strains in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e448	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good cooperation. But I also want to make it clear that the spring 2016 wolf settlement between the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party is firm, and that the case we are dealing with today is essentially about the understanding to be used to follow up the decisions and assumptions of the Stortinge, as they were agreed in the conciliation, in order to be able to make licensing and conditional damages within and outside the wolf zone. For the Progress Party, it is important to deal with the space of action in today's natural diversity law, taking into account the considerations that may provide opportunities for the felling of wolves, not only outside but also within the zone. For the Progress Party, it is important to protect life and property when it conflicts with other interests. After the two-part objective, there shall be room for both humans, livestock and wolves within the wolf zone. An example of this is that the Storting is now expanding the livestock concept to include dogs, according to Section 18, first paragraph, point (b). Perhaps the most important thing for the Progress Party is that a large majority of the Committee has put in place that there can be no doubt that psychosocial aspects of health should be covered by the Natural Diversity Act § 18, first paragraph, point (c) and that general health and safety reasons can provide a basis for the withdrawal of wolves, which was also raised at the hearing on 21 March. Nor is there any doubt that a broad majority in the Committee and in the Stortinget feel that regional policy considerations must be regarded as a significant public interest, according to point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 18. It is great that the Storting believes that the rural policy objective of maintaining a widespread business-life settlement in Norway can now also provide a basis for withdrawals. It is also worth noting that the majority of Stortings emphasises that the balance of interest which must be made in respect of the natural diversity law, paragraph 18, first paragraph, point (c), must be of a dynamic nature. This implies that during periods during which the wolf population exceeds the target population, the threshold shall be lowered at which time the conditions for killing in order to safeguard public interest are met. And there we are today. It is also important that, even if wolves are to have a stronger protection in the zone than outside, there should still be room for local business, housing, social and recreational activities. And it has never been the case that the majority of the Stortinget – as underlined in their comments – wanted it to be a wolf reserve. The majority of the agreement also emphasises that the practice of hunting as a basis for both food and outdoor activities is an important consideration of district policy, which can be attributed to weight if a growing predatory population affects deer populations to a significant degree. I note that the Center Party criticises the government not to follow up the wolf settlement last year. This is a little strange, all the time the Central Party left the negotiating table after a very short time, and did not join in the conciliation. The centre party talks a lot about anti-conflict measures, while the party is publishing pictures and videos of injured animals, to music from horror films such as «Haisomer». This is very cynical. What they're really doing is they're carrying gas to the fire. Let's turn time back a little bit. In 2009, under the chairmanship of the Centre Party, the Nature Diversity Act was dropped through the Stortinget. So when the law came into force, it was such that the rules of the game were repealed, and that was not corrected. It was also not fixed in 2011. But now, after a few years and a long time, the Center Party clearly also sees the need to change the criteria for withdrawals – which they themselves were involved in and introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e469	I am probably among those who thought we had finished this matter and the debate when we adopted the so-called wolf settlement just under a year ago. It didn't work that way. As we all know, the killing permits were granted by the robbers, and the council decided to stop 32 of them. In the wolf settlement that resulted from the treatment of Notified. St. 21 for 2015-2016, on wolf in Norwegian nature, the bulk of the population set a stock target for wolves in addition to stressing the importance of conflict mitigation measures being essential in the management of wolves. We would like to point out that the government's handling of the appeals following the quota allocation of predators last autumn has led to the opposite, and the conflict has increased considerably. We believe that this has weakened trust in the administration and that the conflict has escalated in the areas where wolves are managed. This must be the responsibility of the government. The Christian People's Party wishes to contribute to a solution that is in line with the necessary balance between responsibility for a wolf population and other considerations underlying the 2016 wolf settlement. It has been our focus in dealing with this matter. I would also like to highlight the job that the rapporteur, Eirik Milde, has done in this process. He has remained calm when it has boiled and has stormed from all sides. The four batches behind the predatory settlement have all been constructive and solution-oriented in a difficult case for everyone. In this case, the Christian People's Party – as in the wolf settlement – has focused on finding balance. We have stated in our programme that Norway should take its share of the responsibility for viable populations of the four major predators. We have also programmed that we should have a new stocking target for wolves, which also includes the border wolves. We have delivered on our program and are pleased with the majority who found a solution together in the conciliation. When this extra round came, it has always been our focus. The wolf was almost gone from Norwegian nature for several decades. It goes without saying that when it actually comes back and has managed to build up again, it's a result of a wild policy of the majority on the Biggest. The wolf does not ask the Stortingen where it is going to go, but we in the Christian People's Party have always thought that when we are going to have wolves in Norway, it must be in the areas towards the Swedish border, as it is clear that the Norwegian population must be seen in connection with the Swedish. We are talking about taking our share of responsibility, not about a large stock of wolves in Norway. But the wolf zone wasn't supposed to be a wolf reserve. The wolf shall be managed, including within the zone, once the stock target has been reached. Licensing is the instrument that should be used for stock regulation. The majority of the population now explicitly states that both § 18(b) and § 18(c) are to be included in the basis for the predators, and the committee proposes that the Storting decide that the regulation should be amended accordingly. Call it that we instruct the government. Robbery policy in recent years has been rooted in wide-ranging settlements in the United Kingdom. It was also a broad majority that supported the decision of the Stortinget on 6 June 2016, which was justified in balancing the need to ensure a viable wolf population on the one hand and the preservation of other broad public interests on the other. In the vote, the majority, the settlement parties plus the centre party, stress that such balances made by a majority on the Storting must govern the stock management of wolves for which the predatory authorities are responsible. We expect that this round of clarifications, which concluded that we do not support the government’s legislative proposals – which would only partly have solved the problem – now ensure sufficient basis for the implementation of the wolf settlement stock target and that we get a good, predictable and anti-conflict treatment of the hunting of licences for the coming season. Everyone deserves it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e490	Let me first say – with the limited speaking time I have – that I share the representation of the history of Aasland with the representative in this matter. This morning I heard the Prime Minister say that the Senter Party was alone in the wolf policy. It is so far right that we have a different primary position from last summer's wolf settlement, but we have chosen to be in the majority of comments and majority proposals in today's position because we believe it is time for the government and the rest of us to show respect for the decisions the Stortinget has made in this matter. It's never easy to go to the Great Council's pulpit and say that you don't trust a government council, but sometimes it's necessary. For a long time, the Council of State has overlooked, trained and argued against the decisions taken by the Storting on the management of wolves. This is the third time in less than one year that the Storting will review and instruct the government in this matter. None of the first two rounds of decisions have been followed up by the government. The centre lot focuses on the following four points: Governments have not fulfilled their obligation to provide information to Stortinget. The Council of State has not followed up the decision of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of June last year and January of this year. In particular, it concerns the decision to use § 18(c) of the Nature Diversity Act as a basis for licensing. The Council of State has proposed a legislative amendment that does not allow for increased felling of the wolf and that is rejected by the Storting today. The Council of State has erroneously given the impression that the Ministry of Justice’s law department should have assessed the entire nature diversity law, and that Storting’s decision should not be in line with the law. Let me expand these points and take the last one first. The Council of State has said that the wolf settlement of the Storting is a violation of the Nature Diversity Act. That's wrong. The majority of the population has never asked the government to break the law. In fact, the government's so-called foremost legal expertise, the Ministry of Justice's law department, has never assessed the legal provision that the majority of the population now wants to apply. The law department has never assessed the Nature Diversity Act § 18c. It is therefore both incorrect and unfortunate that the Council of State, with this type of rhetoric, attacks the repeated decisions of the Storting. In today’s setting, the bulk of the population is well founded on why the home of § 18c can and should be used. Some of our leading experts in the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act have expressed, in consultation with the Committee, that this paragraph opens up a far wider and dynamic balance of interest than the government has imagined. There is also a background to the fact that today's majority of the population favours an explicit proposal that the ministry should follow the comments contained in the vote, in its practice and interpretation of the wolf policy. It is a very strong and unusual signal when, by decision at this point, the Storting simply instructs the government on how to interpret and understand the law. Instead of following up the previous decision of the Storting in this case, the government has proposed a change in the law that they thought would allow for more collapsing of the wolf. In fact, all the hearing bodies have stated that this is not the case – this change is not going to increase the fallout of wolves. In other words, a legislative proposal and a change of law without substance have been submitted. As a clear majority in today’s position, there is no need for a legislative change to manage the wolf in line with the decision of the Stortinge last June. There is already a law in today's law, if the government wants to apply the whole law and not just parts of the law. The result is that a total increase today rejects the government's proposal for a bill, and the majority of the population instead instructs the government to apply § 18(c) of the Nature Diversity Act and also change the regulations so that it can happen. Such a clear rejection of their own proposal is mildly unusual for a government council to experience. The central party is also of the opinion that the council broke its unconditional obligation to inform Stortinget, as he did not immediately inform Stortinget of what he considered difficult in this case last year. With such an approach, the ministry managed to train the wolf’s act planned for winter, which was necessary to achieve the stock target adopted by Stortinget, and repeats in today’s setting. The result is a growing wolf population and an increased level of conflict. The People's Party regrets the opinion of the Council of State and the follow-up to this matter. Today's decision will be the third round of decisions taken by the Stortinge on less than one year in the case of wolves. Governments have shown no willingness to follow up the first two rounds of decisions. The Central Party does not trust that the Council of State will follow up and manage the third round of decisions that the Storting will make today. On this basis, I am addressing the proposals made by the Central Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e526	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e531	Wolf is a critically threatened species in Norway. It's important to take over the starting point. This year 42 heroic wolves have been detected. There are four geese, six in border relays, seven in total – so far proven – so two fewer than it was in 2015. The size has decided to accede to the Berne Convention, a legally binding international agreement for the care of wolves, and we have introduced and adopted a nature diversity law in 2009 which imposes strict requirements on the withdrawal of wolves, in line with the Berne Convention. The left is pleased that today we have a majority who reject the changes in the Law on Natural Diversity, that the Law on Natural Diversity is firm, and that the Left, together with the other three parties on the bourgeois side, makes this clear in the matter. When we had the wolf report for treatment in 2016, it was made clear in the notice that we could get a situation where the law – because it is so strict – makes us want more wolves in Norway than the measures adopted by the Stortinget. As has been pointed out here, the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the government parties, adopted a goal that is too low to be followed by the law in hand. When the robbers went in last year to take out four flocks of 32 wolves and this was charged to the Council of State, we believe from the Left that the Council of State did quite right. There is no basis in the law, as there is no potential for damage. In the wolf zone, six sheep were taken last year, there is no wolf in domestic areas, so there is no basis for allowing those ewes. The law also requires that before taking out a protected species as a wolf, it is necessary to consider whether other satisfactory solutions can be found to avoid withdrawals, for example. reinforcement of fences. There is no doubt that the Council of State followed the law in the assessments made last autumn. It is alarming that today, as in the past, a majority of the Grand Duchy is trying to instruct the Council of State to break the law, which is now being done when it is decided that it is the observations of the majority to be taken into account for the administration and the individual decisions to be taken by the Council of State. It is quite clear that individual decisions in Stortinget are not able to review the law decisions in Stortinget, nor in this case. It will be very special when the Central Party makes a motion of censure because it is believed that the Council of State has not fulfilled the obligation to provide information – I cannot see that there is any information here that has not been provided by the Council of State – that § 18(c) has not been assessed – it has also been done in the proposal from the Council of State – and that one should not have followed an assessment also on the basis of § 18(c). And when, following a mistrust proposal that has been put forward on such a sinister basis, the Labour Party is unable to clarify whether or not they will support the proposal before the Stortinge treatment, it is very special. The left also believes that we should, of course, address the serious situation of people living with predators, but there are many ways to deal with and have conflict-relieving measures. These are prevention measures, and we have proposed that a stronger financial support should also be provided to municipalities that have established flocks of wolves. We are going to follow up on the revised budget. But this case shows that we have a strong obligation to care for rare species in Norway, including wolf, in the Berne Convention, in the Nature Diversity Act, and we have a strong law, which fortunately does not change in this case. I'll take up the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e552	The representative of Ola Elvestuen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e557	The wolf debate in political Norway is a farce. Today's debate marks a break with the decent direction of a broad majority in predatory policy for two decades. Two observations: Just as allowing the right-wing populist and anti-immigration party of the country to lead the immigration debate has led to an irreproachable immigration policy, from a majority of the debates, allowing the populist and inviolable rhetoric of the Central Party to lead the wolf debate has led to an irresistible wolf policy by a majority of the parties on the Grand Duchy. Second, the Center Party that they're talking on behalf of the people, but they're on collision courses with the population. The centre party represents the extreme position of eradicating wolves in Norwegian nature – there are very few Norwegians who believe. A little story: The wolf is totally satisfied in Norwegian nature, and it has been since 1973. It's totally satisfied, and it was even promoted by a Central Party government council. According to the heading of endangered species, the wolf is critically threatened in Norwegian nature, and it is hacked before it is eradicated. Through broad predatory settlements in 2004 and 2011, a broad majority of Norwegian politicians have taken steps to increase the stock of predators, give priority to the wolf within the wolf zone and the grazing animals outside. This is a successful policy. The wolf population has increased, and as it has happened, the number of animal injuries from the wolf has decreased – partly because of the cut-out of sheep in areas with wolf, but also because the wolf in herds of revir is localized and takes elves instead of sheep, because they are able to do so. In this way they also do their job in nature to trap the elk that is sick and weak, and contribute to a healthier moose trunk. The majority decision in 2016 was a break with this line – now the wolf population would be reduced. But Stortinget also gave two other leaders: The Natural Diversity Act is firm. The potential for damage shall be critical to whether one can fall. The Berne Convention and our international obligations are firm. To the motion of censure of the Central Party: it is the worst-founded motion of censure in the last decades. Claim one - The size is misinformed: It is simply not true when the central party suggests that the council has misinformed the Stortinget. Already in 2016, State Council informed Helgesen about essentials: He would follow the decision of the Storting, but stick to the laws of Norway and our international obligations. The decision of the Grand Duchy could be contrary to Norway’s obligations. The second question is, has the Council of State refused to follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy? The answer to that is yes, he has not allowed the shooting of as many wolves as the Stortinget has decided, but the Stortinget has also asked him to comply with the laws of natural diversity, and thus he has followed the Stortinget's decision. The Nature Diversity Act is in violation of Stortinge's decision on wolves shooting, because the law is designed to protect nature. He's not opening a license hunt unless it's damage potential, and it's not. Nor can one trap if other alternatives can be used. Then comes what is special and pointed in this matter: the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Government Party The Advance Party believes that the Council of State is lying, and that the Council of State could open the way for licensing for reasons other than that the wolf constitutes a potential for damage. They think he could have used § 18(c), and now I'm asking you to listen carefully, because here are the arguments: there are strong societal considerations that are the claim, it can give birth. Fear, district policy and elk have been used in the setting. The fear of people is to be taken seriously, but there are thus no people killed by wolves in Norway and Sweden. Knowledge of the wolf and what to do and not do near the wolf are obvious alternatives to shooting the wolf. About the districts: So it's not the wolf that drives people to move out of Hedmark. Targeted rural and agricultural policies are an obvious alternative to shooting wolves. About elk: Before the problem was that the wolf ate sheep, now the problem is that it eats elk. Wolf eats elk, it's part of being wolf. If a wolf behaves like a wolf, it has to be shot, then the parties have to say like the Center Party: wipe out the wolf. If the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party believe that more wolves should be shot, they must change the law rather than promote arguments that do not hold water and that look embarrassing if you see them from outside. Norway is working to take care of wild animals in the rest of the world. Tiger kills both humans and game in the districts of India. Would the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Right Party and the rest go in to kill more tigers if they ran into India? Or what about elephants and lions in Africa: would the Center Party have gone in to eradicate lions in South Africa and used the reason that there are so many lions in other countries in Africa? Before the 2013 elections, Erna Solberg said: ‘An environmental policy needs to be reinvigorated. Under today's government, classical nature protection has been downgraded.» Since then the bear population has gone down, the right has opened for increased hunting for the king eagle, and now the rhetoric is that more wolves are to be shot. Farewell. I put my trust in the fact that the large population that wants predators in Norwegian nature will win at last. With that, I take up proposal No. 2, from SV and MDG.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e611	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e616	The so-called wolf settlement from last year culminates today in the fact that the Centre Party is promoting distrust of the Minister for the Environment, and the Workers' Party has announced possible support for this. This motion of censure is the most embarrassing political act ever taken at the Grand Summit in this period. The Central Party has not distrusted Minister of Integration Listhaug for her divisive and aggressive asylum policy. They have not distrusted Minister of Justice Amundsen for gross failure to ensure the terrorism of public buildings. They have not mistrusted climate minister Helgesen for the enormous gap between promises, commitments and achievements in climate policy. But when the same Minister of Environmental Protection feels obliged to follow a natural diversity law that the Centre Party and the Workers' Party themselves have been involved in promoting, then it goes over the board of the Centre Party. Shooting too little wolf is left as the greatest political sin the government has committed in this great period, according to the Center Party. The wolf has become the acidiest of nature conservation in Norway. Nature conservation means that even the nature that is not pretty, does not taste good and is not profitable, has the right to life. The centre party, with the result of the Workers' Party and the creation party, the Christian People's Party, then irons it down in this acid stone. They have pushed many steps backwards in respect of basic principles of nature protection during this ageing period. And people who are happy in Norwegian nature should think carefully before they vote these parties into government. In the wolf case, it is actually the Blue Right Party government that shows a minimum of respect for nature, principles and laws. So a little bit about fear: the last year's glide flight from sheep to fear as the main argument against wolf is interesting. The Centre Party and some Workers' Party representatives with several claims that the wolf conflict is greater than ever. Is that it? A massive majority in Norway and in the wolf state of Hedmark will have wolves. Within the wolf zone, the wolf constitutes an increasingly less damaging potential for what it has always been criticized for before – sheep. Last year there was more wolf in Norway than in many years, but the loss of sheep to the wolf did not go up. Isn't it more natural to interpret this as the fact that the conflict is subdued? Thus, as the grazing animal argument has lost its impact, several parties have chosen to make wolf policy the only policy area in Norway where fear is raised as an independent argument and how rifles are produced as a good solution to the fear problem. In all other cases where people are afraid of something here in the country, with or without reason, we choose other solutions. We get the facts, we inform, we make rules and strategies, we calm down, we tell our children that traffic is dangerous – because it is – but they don't have to be afraid if they follow traffic rules and look around. We go for a walk in the winter mountain, and we survive the cold, the jump and the pace because we've learned how to do it. We agree that a lot of things in Norwegian everyday life are dangerous, but we do not rely on fear when we have to deal with it – so the exception is wolf, according to the Senterpartiet and some other representatives. This motion of censure and much of the debate otherwise marks a sharp fall in the reputation of the Centre Party and several other parties. It was not only the Minister of the Environment of the Central Party who peaced the wolf in 1973, but when the Berne Convention was adopted in Stortinget, the Central Party leader Johan Buttedahl said: "We want to ensure viable strains of bear, wolf and yerv, because they are a natural part of the Norwegian fauna." It is important to remember when using the strongest instrument of policy against a state council that tries to follow that principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e631	The cancellation ends today with the handling of a demanding case. The observations on which the majority has agreed in this matter will be made on the basis of the government. Norwegian wolf policy has an impact on people's lives, on how people live, on how areas are used for grazing, and on how people use nature. For some, the consequences are painful. However, while national and local, wolf policy is also international. When the Stortinge decided unanimously in 1986 to conclude Norway to the Berne Convention, it was stated from this pulpit that ‘Norway has a special responsibility to practise the Convention in accordance with its purpose. Norway took the initiative in the Convention and played an active role in making it best suited to the conservation of species resources in our and other countries’ flora and fauna.’ This reference from the then State Council Rachel Surlien reflects the Norwegian interest in the country's commitment to comply with international legal rules and that we ourselves bear such obligations. The Berne Convention provides clear guidance for predatory policies, which, for Norway, are not least reflected in the Nature Diversity Act. The general rule and the starting point under Norwegian law is that the killing of wolves is prohibited. So it was before the time of the Berne Convention. It was under Environment Minister Helga Gitmark in 1973 that the wolf was permanently saved in Norway – not without strong protests. In the Norwegian nature Storingsmeldning Ulf in spring 2016, the Storingsmeld was informed that even in a situation where the wolf population is above the agreed stocking targets of Stortingen, the law’s requirements would be able to intercept licensing. It is obvious today that it would be useful to emphasise this point more strongly in the debate on the communication. Since this situation was brought to the fore in the autumn of 2016, the government has been working to achieve better consistency between the Great Britain's agreed stockpiles for wolves, the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention. A broad majority of the UK population has sought greater flexibility in the management of the wolf. The Government proposed in March to include a new derogation in the Nature Diversity Act. It would have given some greater flexibility in administration, even within the wolf zone. The Government promoted this proposal after dialogue with the Left. On the part of the government, we believe that a change in the law taken directly from the Berne Convention would not conflict with the aim of agreeing the cooperation agreement that the Law on Natural Diversity is firm. However, we note that, after further dialogue between the cooperation parties, there is no basis for that amendment. It has been important for the government to follow up on the Grand Duchy's request decision of 31 January with an open and thorough presentation of the scope of the legal issues so that the Grand Duchy had an opportunity to deal with them. In the case of Stortinget, the government pointed out that the provision of Section 18(c) of the Nature Diversity Act can, according to its wording, provide a certain space to take into account the reduced quality of life, the legitimacy of the wolf management, the consideration of nutrition and hunting, etc. under the condition ‘other significant public interests’. The size has followed up this review by now expressing in depth what can constitute public interests of significant importance under the Nature Diversity Act § 18 (c). The size has also requested that the robber game regulation be amended, so that this legal provision can be used as a basis for licensing. I have previously signaled that I was open to such a change in the rogue regulation, but that it was natural to await the processing of the bill by the Storting before the change was implemented. After today's treatment in Stortinget, I will immediately follow up on changing the regulation. This means that in the future the robbers and other parts of the predatory game management can assess licensing under both § 18 first paragraph, point (b) and paragraph 18, first paragraph, point (c). The preparations for point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 18 from the adoption of the law in the Grand Duchy only mentioned individual animals which pose a concrete threat, such as: whether a bear takes hold in built-up areas. With its position today, the Storting has done a post-work and thus added up to a further interpretation. In its policy, the government will base the comments of the majority of the population. The government will always have to take decisions that are in line with Norwegian law and international obligations. The practical implications of this will need to be clarified when individual decisions are taken. In this context, I would point out that the majority of the Committee emphasises that the assessment of whether the conditions covered by the concept of public interest of material importance are fulfilled must be carried out in each decision on killing. The Committee also asks the Government to carry out a professional review of the wolf population in Norway. This is going to be followed up by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e659	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e664	I have noticed what the Council of State said that the government will follow up on what is now the clear position of the majority of the population. It was said in June last year, but I am glad that he repeats this now and is clear about it. Based on what is now in the position, where the Stortinget is very clearly asking the government to follow up the position and comments in the setting and to base it on further follow-up, practice and management of the wolf in Norway, I expect the Council of State can guarantee this to the Stortinget, that this will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e671	As I said in my speech, the government of our policy in the future will base the comments of the majority of the population. We are concerned that the Storting, with the attitude that is now on the table, has given profound and complementary consideration to what can be put into the concept of "public interest of essential importance". It's a post-work that adds up to a further interpretation, and that's what we're going to use in the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e676	The Council of State was aware that the fulfilment of the conditions was based on a single decision, and the undersigned fully agree. However, at the same time, the majority of the vote has introduced a significant judgement for the purposes of compliance or assessment. Does the Council of State agree that there is now a significant judgement regarding the exercise of and the frame-up of individual decisions in the position that exists?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e681	There is no doubt that the current setting provides a much wider review. And along with the proposition, which also gives a broad review of the legal issues, we now have more knives to hang things on than what we had with the preprocessors of the natural diversity law. I note that we fully agree that it is in the individual decision on killing that the assessment of whether the conditions are met must be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e688	My question is in the same direction as the representative of Aasland. After listening to the statements of the Council of State, I am left with the following questions and want clear clarification from the Council of State: Does the Council of State think it is at all problematic to follow up today's majority decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e693	It is the mission and duty of a State Council to follow up a majority decision. We have been in a situation where there have been problems in getting good enough coherence between the stock measure decision, the nature diversity law and the Berne Convention. Now, with today’s treatment in Stortinget, we have a broader menu for reasons and some supplementary considerations from Stortinget, not least about what can be put into the concept of ‘public interests of major importance’. That's what they call post-work. Since the preprocessors are pretty skinny at this point, we now have more to assume in the follow-up. The size has provided a further interpretation, and in our policy we want to base the comments of the majority of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e698	It was probably in many ways a completely necessary recognition by the Council of State came at the end of its article regarding the use of point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 18. However, it has taken a long time for the Council of State – three rounds of decision making – before the Council of State got there. As late as the end of March, the Council of State answered questions from my side that Section 18, first paragraph, point (c), could not be used for licensing. That was the department's answer that time. There is no doubt that the expertise says that there is a significant national freedom of action in deciding what is public interest or public interest, under the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention, and that that flexibility is also greater when one reaches the target. So my question is really, what practical significance will that have? The Council of State will now face some complaints, such as: a wolf herd in Trysil. Will this also have an impact on the Slotås team and the desire to take out more individuals in the Slotås team?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e708	To start with, the licensing period is now over, but we have ongoing damage case assessments in the Environment Directorate and in the Department. Let me say about point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 18 that it was assessed in connection with the appeal decision last year, but it was not the main question that was submitted to the Law Department. We believed that the conditions of point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 18 were not fulfilled in that case. We have processed from Section 18, first paragraph, point (c), which clearly points to typical damage cases, and we have no administrative practice that has taken into account Section 18, first paragraph, point (c) in licensing cases. In the case of Stortinget, we pointed out that the wording of the provision on other public interests of material importance can give a certain room for bottling, even if the threshold would be high. Now, the Storting has done a post-work that adds to a further interpretation, which draws up different considerations, and which clearly defines what the Storting believes to be such public interests. That's what the government wants to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e717	In the last year’s wolf report, the Council of State informed us – as it has been done later – that we could have a situation where a wolf population is larger than the population targets of the Stortinge. Given that we have an international commitment to the Berne Convention and that we have a strong law in the Law on Natural Diversity: is there any possibility that the decisions taken by the majority today could change that situation, or is it such that we could have a stock of wolves in Norway that, by virtue of a strong law, would still be above the stockpiles set by the majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e722	There is a broad consensus that we should have wolves in Norway, and there is a broad consensus that it should be managed. We want a little bit more flexibility in the management of the wolf, not least within the wolf zone. It was behind the proposal we made to the Stortinget. With the observations adopted today by the Stortinget, as the Committee itself stresses, it will be in each decision to close down that the assessment of compliance with the conditions is carried out. We don't get away with that, so there's nothing in general about this. But what the Storting decides today, and the comments the Stortinget has written in this setting, will be the basis of the government in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e727	The majority of the population will not change the law today, but have therefore done so through their work in order to ensure that the Natural Diversity Act § 18, first paragraph, point (c), which states that the King may, by regulation or individual decisions, authorise the withdrawal of game and salmon and inland fish in order to take care of general health and safety reasons or other public interests of significant importance, it must be possible to interpret slightly wider – that is what has been said. But what I want to ask the Council of State is: one such broader and expanded interpretation must in any case be interpreted against what is in the following section, namely the second paragraph, where it says: ‘Decisions referred to in points (a) to (f) of the first subparagraph may only be taken if the extraction does not threaten the survival of the stock and the purpose cannot be achieved satisfactorily.’ That's right, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e739	The conditions under which withdrawals must not threaten the survival of the population and that no other satisfactory solution must be found are established. It is such that when the predators now have an extended access to use more of Section 18 to make their judgements, they will equally have to make an interpretation of the law. The interpretation and application of the law must be done in the specific case. Of course, the stock situation is an important starting point. And behind it all lies the Berne Convention as an interpretative basis. That is why I am pleased that the Committee is very clear that it is in each decision on killing that we want to see the concrete results of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e744	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e749	I would like to start by thanking the President-in-Office for his excellent work, and I would also like to thank the parties who are now actually standing up for the decision that the Stortinget is invited to take. There is, of course, a special parliamentary situation in which we get a proposal from the Right-Fremskritsparte-Government, and in which the proposal is, as it were, downrooted by everyone – including their own – but at the same time with such clear instructions goes into a field where, according to my concepts, both the right paragraph should have been found and the measures that should have been put in place, precisely to avoid conflict. Let me say right away, because people have on the pulpit referred to Hedmark, that I am a seaman living in a wolf zone, in the middle of the area that engages very strongly: neither do we feel there is some sort of black-and-white thinking connected to or for predators like that. It is true, as many have pointed out, that in fact a majority of Hedmark’s population have said that predators want to be in the wild, but one forgets an important relationship, at least in the recent surveys — and this is conditional upon the management of the predatory wildlife strain. There's most of us. I think, with all due respect, that the moment should also be given to those who live in these areas, that there is just such an input to this. I am very much in agreement with the actual description given by the majority, but not least in what the Council of State was also talking about, namely that here we are discussing a matter that has meaning for people's lives – and sometimes it is painful. It's actually like that, when we've now counted a very small loss of sheep within the wolf zone, it's not necessarily because the predators have stopped eating sheep, but because quite a number of nutritional actors within the zone have taken a considerable strain by stopping using their herbicide, and by stopping feeding. I sometimes think we're going to have it with us. So we see growth, we still see large damage numbers outside of the zone, and there's no reason to think that it's going to slow down with the growing population we're now seeing. When we see that the number of juveniles is the double of the set population, and what will then come from more animals beyond, at least I understand that it makes people worried, both those who live in the middle of the area, and those who are part of the activity of the steppes. It is therefore a challenge for us that the damage caused often conflicts with commercial interests. I am so very pleased that on this occasion the Storting says so clearly that it is not just about running sheep and other buffalo, but also that taking into account the hunting interests in these areas must be taken into account and taken more seriously than what you have actually done now. I would also like to say that it is fascinating to hear, especially from representatives from the Left and the SV – and the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås turns from the African savannah to the Norwegian armed forces – that one almost jumps over the fear of people. The one I think I should be taken seriously. It's people who don't dare to go out the same way as before, and who don't dare to send out the kids. You can flirt with it, but if you meet these people, you'll understand that we're in a situation where there are so many, and where it's so persistent, I think about, for example. Clear cheese in Trysil, that at least it has to be assessed against the provision that has stood there all along and that they think should have been assessed, about the violation of ‘other public interests of major importance’ — obviously. I hope that it will also affect the ministry and the government's complaint handling of the case. Finally, I would like to say that it not only weakens the confidence of politicians, but also in predatory policy as such, that we are not able to manage effectively. My hope is that trust will grow if we manage to achieve more efficient management. The Berne Convention has more discretion than many of us use. The Swedish judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court in Sweden clearly shows this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e764	I come from an area in Norway where we have not had any problems with wolves. There have indeed been cases of some reptiles, but there are other predators with whom we in my county, More and Romesdal, have had greater problems. But it does not mean that I, as a representative of More and Romesdal, shall sit down and define the types of challenges, fears and uncertainties that exist in other parts of the country with the problems that the wolf brings about. I understand very much that the inhabitants of both Hedmark, Uppland, the Trondelagsfylken and the longer north also – i.e. areas that have a great impact on wolves – have a great deal of uncertainty. I am very pleased that the Council of State has today been very clear that the Council of State and the Government will base on what is today the decision of the Stortinge for the further follow-up of what has to do with both the stock and the management of the wolf. There's a bell-clear clearing that the government has said will be followed up. I am very pleased about that, and it should actually lead to the Center Party drawing its motion of censure in the Chamber today. As regards this proposal from the Centre Party, different approaches have been tried to explain why the proposal was promoted. But the bottom line here is that it is believed that the Council of State has not followed up a decision that the Central Party was not in. That's a little bit of a special situation. And then through this proposal you try to create the impression of something completely different. This is one of the thinnest reasons for a motion of censure I have ever seen, and it is not because of a lack of respect for those who are struggling with the wolf and their problems – it has been said that the government will be followed up now, and the Storting has also said that it should be followed up – but it is the line of argument of the Center Party that concerns me, and on what basis it is done. It is actually the case that when the Rovvilt regulation came in 2005, which was followed up in 2009 by the Nature Diversity Act, the Senterpartiet was in government and did so. When you arrived in 2011, you chose not to do anything about the regulation in connection with the robberies agreement. It's possible that the Centre Party's bad conscience for its own poor policy in the field is trying to take the focus away from what you've been able to manage yourself. I hope that the Workers' Party does not at least agree with the proposal that the Centre Party is trying to make here. In the situation we had after 22 July and the evaluation of everything that happened then, despite not promoting any mistrust in Stortinget. But when we get to this matter, you're going to make a political game of it by the Central Party by promoting a mistrust proposal on this basis. I would ask as strongly as I can, for the sake of the imitation of this hall and this period, that the Central Party draw this proposal, because the Council of State has been very clear that today's decision in the Chamber will be the basis for the further follow-up. The government will follow up, it has been clearly confirmed by the Council of State. Then we should not stand by the proposal that lies here, on the syllable basis of which the Central Party is trying to create a political game.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e779	The Workers' Party bases three relationships on how we look at the management of the wolf. One is that we should reduce the damage potential, the other is that we should have predators in Norwegian nature, and the third is the principle that the excellent environmental protection minister from the then governing party, the Socialist Left Party, affirmed – that the predatory settlement is an indispensable platform – then the governing party had to deal with the matter. On 5 January we could read that the parliamentary leaders of the Right and the Advance Party were swinging, and they gave clear notice to their own state council that it was his responsibility to clear up. As described in the case, on the contrary – instead of defending – one must have ironized that the government’s decision has made the wolf zone a wolf reserve. So these aren't the words used by the opposition. It's used by the government's own parties and party traps on the Stortinget. When the applicant starts by saying that it is up to other parties to answer as to why it has not been supported that parts of the Berne Convention are included in the Nature Diversity Act, it is also interesting to go back and look at what he has said earlier. The representative Milde has said that the Right has been clear about the desire to implement the June anti-tank agreement last year, and that the government is now given the opportunity to look at the wording of the Nature Diversity Act of 31 January 2017. It is about two months before Vidar Helgesen submits his proposal for changes to the Nature Diversity Act, and he says he hopes to be able to consult the Cooperation Party on the Left. The cooperation agreement has been grounded all along. It would be tempting to ask if you really meant what you put out. And does the representative actually believe Mild that it must be up to other parties to answer for what he himself cannot stand behind? It brings us to whether this was feasible or not, whether it would actually improve the situation, because it has to be borne in mind when the representative Milde says that with regard to these changes in the Law on Natural Diversity, he would like to support the Council of State and the Government. Then we have to refer to that wolf general in the Right, the representative of Gundersen, said to ABC News on March 3rd – that the Council of State and the bureaucracy have succeeded in training the wolf case. It's not a handshake. It's a disaster. In the morning hours today on questions of whether he takes self-criticism, the Minister for the Environment replied no. Could you do something different? - No, I'm not. Then it is amazing to hear the same environmental protection minister in a slightly different tone, at least as I choose to interpret him, saying: Yes, we shall follow the law that lies there – just as he has previously said that no, we cannot break the law. And it's the same law that lies there. There are no political arguments, but depoliticized arguments as bottoms of jus. It brings us to the point whether it's the first time the government argues with law and depolitizes in difficult matters. No, it happened in the case of the oil price drop, the tax cuts, unemployment and now also in the wolf case. So the government's question is, do you really want to rule? Summary is well done better than well said. And in this case, it has been largely well said.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e800	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e806	Behind all the legal debates, the political battles, the wolf debate is about people – people who for generations have reaped nature and lived with nature, people who have distrusted the administration, who have felt once and for all unauthorised, who have learned that previous rights have gone away, that hunting opportunities have disappeared, that grazing has been made impossible, and who have had to accept ever closer wolves in their neighbourhood, in farms and gardens. The wolf settlement in Stortinget last year was not optimal, but it gave hope for improvement, a little less stress and greater opportunity to be heard. But the amazing thing has happened, the distrust we've seen between local people and government, has now come between magnificence and government. Through its action and the handling of the wolf decisions in Stortinget last spring, the government and the state council of Helgesen have contributed to the fact that the level of conflict around the wolf is higher than ever. And the decision of Storting has not been implemented, it has been trained. Three times the State Council has been informed of how to interpret predatory policies, how to implement predatory policies. I don't think I've ever been a witness to anything like that – that a government council will be notified once and for all. Today, he is even told how to read the comments, that they must be the basis of further administration. One of the essential points of the comments is that significant public interests are to be taken into account and that regional policy considerations are also to be taken into account. What we heard at the Political Quarter this morning was that the State Council Helgesen tried to interpret this. Helgesen said there has not been depopulation in Hedmark, so there is no basis for killing. I don't think the state council Helgesen can think that if there had been depopulation in Hedmark, you should have fielded wolf, but because there are still people living there, you shouldn't trap wolf. It's the kind of statement that has come from the Helgesen State Council and that has given up the level of conflict. When several thousand in two rounds took the trip to Oslo to demonstrate for a new and better policy, it was not for the Stortinge to adopt a new policy, but for the Stortinge policy to be implemented. That's the amazing thing that's happened in this case, it's not demonstrations against Stortinget, it's demonstrations for Storting's policy to be implemented. Today, when we vote in favour of a motion of censure, it is because this is the third time that the Stortinget, the majority of the population, obliges the Council of State to implement a policy, and because the Stortinget was not informed that, according to the Council of State itself, the rapprochement could not be carried out – when it was adopted in June last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e819	I believe that the rapporteur and the Stortinget have done a very good job here. I have also registered that the Council of State has taken it over, and has now confirmed that one should follow the course and follow the Storting decision. I'm happy about that. That's why I shouldn't say so much more about the wolf's effects on people, on those who actually live with it, and on a nutritional basis. Knut Storberget has also been involved, I could have joined it a lot. But I'm never going to understand that you're going to take a fight against a solid majority of bigots based on a barrage regulation that's not up-to-date according to the law that the country's going to be governed by. In fact, one has a predatory game regulation that relates to a game law that was lifted more than ten years ago, and that was replaced by the Nature Diversity Act. That's the core of why we're here. I think that's quite remarkable. I will never understand that, especially in the light of what appeared yesterday, when Professor Fauchald – Fauchald is not anyone, he is one of the experts that the department wanted to go into this – claimed that the wolf markings that were started are a violation of Norwegian law, and that the legal basis has not been examined. Then I get to what I think is one of the most serious aspects of the matter, that it's about to break into a position where you don't have confidence in management and research. It seems that management, research and politics do exactly what you want, when it suits you, while using point-finding legal interpretations to stop it when you don't want to. I think that is quite serious. The issue concerns respect for individuals, respect for community communities, respect for the management of wolves and all other animal species, which Storberget also had in mind. Here the State Council has positioned itself on the wrong side of all points. It is a considerable burden, and it is reading the Berne Convention in a rather ‘slope’ way. I've read the Bern Convention many times, and I think it's a wise convention. I am very concerned about environmental protection and about protecting species, but the Convention specifies that it must be an environmental protection that the people who are going to live with it understand. That's what I'm really reading out of the Berne Convention, that we're going to have sensible environmental protection, that doesn't create big conflicts, that people understand. This is not understood – that one should not manage a wolf trunk as well. I'm asked a lot if I vote for distrust, I don't. There is a long way to go between being critical and having failed — in particular to declare a distrust of a government council, and especially when he now says so clearly that it is to be complied with. But I would like to point out to the Council of State that it is more than just what is in the setting today, that is to be followed up. It's a deal from last year. All points need to be followed up, especially this with independent examination of where the wolf comes from, so that we can determine whether we actually have a responsibility or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e832	I am pleased that there is a very broad majority behind the comments and proposals adopted here today. I expect these decisions to enable both the current government and future governments to implement what is the Great Britain's clear message to manage the wolf population within the stock target set. I am also pleased that the Council of State in its statement here today confirms this. But I'm very disappointed in the Center Party today. Using Storting's most powerful instrument against a government council as part of a political tactic, as the Center Party is doing today, is unfortunate. The centre party says that they will create confidence in the wolf policy, and that the decision of the Storting must be followed up, but they act in a way that makes both parts more difficult. For how does the Central Party explain that they first chose to stand outside the broad agreement from 2016, and then criticise the government for not following up the same decisions? How do they explain that they are promoting distrust of the Council of State today, but at the same time stand behind both the comments and proposals of the majority based on the agreement they were outside last year? It's not related, and I think the explanation is that the Center Party realized that they were being put completely on the sideline when it comes to the management of wolves in Norway. I want to finish in an optimistic tone. Fortunately, this is not the way the Centre Party premises the wolf policy. For let's say what it is: if it were, the wolf in Norway would have been nearly wiped out. A broad majority in the United Kingdom has once again stated that we should have wolves in Norwegian nature, but that it should be managed in a way that creates confidence both nationally and not least in the communities concerned, which the wolf has been closely involved in. That, I believe, is the basis for this government and future governments to have an active management of wolves, for the benefit of natural diversity and people. With the motion of censure that the Centre Party is promoting here today, the Centre Party continues to sit entirely on the sideline of the management of wolves in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e843	The wolf administration in Norway has long been in a crisis of confidence between people and administration, and there is now also a crisis of confidence between collapse and government. The center party is on the main line in people's understanding of the wolf, not on any sidings. I do not know any subject area in my nearly 16 years at Stortinget where there are as many crunches as in the work to get more and more wolves in Norway – a wolf that is not genetically special, a wolf population that has migrated from our neighbouring country. The majority of the population laid down stock targets for wolves in 2016. Until this debate, the Council of State and the Government have said that the decision of the Storting is contrary to the Law on Nature Diversity. It's been hammered on by the Council of State. The same Council of State did not say that it was contrary to the law when the decision was taken. The Council of State has thus breached the obligation to provide information. So today's government is putting forward proposals to amend the law on natural diversity. In today's vote, all parties reject the legislative amendment proposal – especially – and the majority instruct the government on how to understand the law: one should apply the Nature Diversity Act § 18c, and one should amend the Roofing Ordinance. Then we experience that the Council of State in its speech today says: "Surely, the government will follow the decision of the Storting, and the government will, on the seas, reduce the wolf population to four–six family groups in Norway. The legal basis is therefore not a problem now – very rarely. Clearly, it is the Central Party's mistrust proposal that has forced a reluctance on the part of the government. The press has become too big, the Council of State has to give up. But what does this mean? We who heard the Council of State in the Political Quarter of the NRK today noticed that he gave strong emphasis to the fact that the decision on the killing of wolves could be appealed to the judiciary for each wolf. The question then is: can the Council of State confirm that there is no longer any legal basis for stopping, for example, the fall in the license or the fall in the price of wolves in order to implement the decision of the Storting – so what if the law is not amended today? It is essential to have it clarified from the mouth of the Council of State today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e854	On 31 January, Stortinget took two decisions on the application. A case was then asked by the government about how the management of the wolf, including access to licensing, can be carried out in accordance with the wolf settlement. This was to be done by looking at existing legislation and international conventions, in particular the Natural Diversity Act § 18, first paragraph, b and c. After that, the government came back to Stortinget with a proposal to amend the law. A proposal to amend the law on natural diversity requires that the government's cooperation parties were in agreement with it. It turned out not to be the case when it came to the left. So we were in a new situation here in Stortinget. So it's the Storting that now actually fulfills the order that Stortinget gave, that changes are now taking place according to the applicable law. Then, as the Council of State says, it can be called the follow-up work of the Storting, and the Storting itself specifies its own legislation. I believe that we could benefit from this at a long earlier stage. I believe the Council of State was faced with one of the challenges when the wolf settlement was concluded, namely that it had to be clarified in a completely different way that stock targets and law requirements could conflict with each other. It rewritten a sentence or two in the notice. So the Storting goes to the step of tightening up on how many wolves we're going to have in this country, but it doesn't show that this probably would fall on the first occasion. In my opinion, this is at the heart of the problem we have, and the problems we have had. The biggest problem with this is the lack of trust between government and the population. There's a big job for the government and the government to do to fix this. We are not voting in favour of the proposal of the Central Party, also because the Council of State has so clearly stated that the clarification that the Stortinget is now making in the current legislation will mean that several wolves can be killed, which are therefore in line with the decision of the Stortinge in the wolf settlement. With that insurance, we see no reason to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e865	From my homelands, which are in the mountain region on the border between Hedmark and South-Trøndelag, I can report many who go in the summer in front of grazing. We have long worn out with great losses to predators, both of sheep and of domestic animals. Lack of willingness by responsible authorities to prevent damage from predators causes many to lose their courage and refuse to continue traditional operations. Not only in my region, but from north to south, it is felt that predatory problems are not taken seriously by central authorities. For people in large parts of the country, this is a matter of whether the big community wants to carry on business, use of nature and living conditions in the districts, or whether predators are the ones to take precedence. On the part of the Central Party, we have not supported the policy of the bulk of the population of predators, there have been too many wretched compromises that express the will to control the situation, but do not have the desired effect. I feel that Stortinget has gradually understood that it needs to make policies clearer and stronger instruments for doing so. That is why, after all, it was positive when the Stortinget adopted the tightening in order to follow up on previous predatory settlements through its stop-up to the 2016 report on predatory animals. This was not complied with by the government, and in January this year the Stortinget took a decision by which the government was instructed on how the previous decision of the Stortinget on the management of the wolf and the implementation of the licensing agreement could be carried out in accordance with the wishes of the Stortinget. The Minister for Climate and Environment did not choose to follow the Storting decision this time either. Instead, we were presented with the interpretation of the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act that undermines the possibilities of action far beyond the will of the Storting and far beyond the interpretation of the law of prominent administrative lawyers. It seems that the Council of State refuses to accept that it is the Stortinget that is his sponsor. It is then natural that it ends up in the position of the Committee on Energy and the Environment. Governments stand without support in Stortinget. It's not often we experience anything like this. The size of the population’s attitude to changes in the Nature Diversity Act has become somewhat more than a question of wolf management in Norway. There's just as much a matter of whether a state council ever after can ignore the Storting's will. We have had major debates in Norway over many years on predatory policy. The centre party is behind the Storting's goal of protecting large predatory species originating in Norway, while maintaining extensive grazing and safe and good living conditions for people in Norwegian rural communities. We still believe that the wolf is in a special position among the large predators, because the wolf in Norway is an establishment of the Finnish-Russian wolf here in the country. However, the majority of the population have been in favour of the establishment of a wolf tribe in Norway based on four to six annual juveniles.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e880	The core problem in this case is that the majority of the Stortinget creates the impression that it is possible to shoot many wolves quickly within the framework of the existing Nature Diversity Act, which is thus fixed. In order to solve this problem, the concept of public interest is now being given increasing emphasis, which can now include hunting interests, commercial interests, fear and much more. So the size now instructs the Council of State and the government to implement the wolf decision by means of this interpretation change. The question is whether you risk that it is not the wolf that is affected, but the nature diversity law. The reason why there are such provisions in the Nature Diversity Act, which has so far been interpreted to apply in individual cases, is, of course, that if concepts of the type ‘public interest’ are interpreted widely, the bottom falls out of the law. ‘Public interest’ is in principle anything — it is the sum of public opinion, business interests, political interests, etc. at all times. This is very important, but the way we deal with general public interests is usually through political choices. Between the political choices we follow the law, or the Storting changes the law, but it has been decided not to do so in this case. What has happened — and is happening — in Hedmark is that wolves create significant problems for some entrepreneurs, but they create significantly fewer problems than the effects of e.g.: eight years of red-green government, which led to the closure of many thousands of use in Norway, a good part also in Hedmark. The wolf that damages business does not reach the red-green government, nor the blue government, to the socks. What we are left with now is a political decision in the United Kingdom which – perhaps on its own, perhaps not on its own – risks breaking the ground of the most important natural protection policy instrument adopted by the previous government, namely the Law on Natural Diversity. The wolf will survive in Norway. People want it, it's going to be more of it, and we're going to make friends with it, but we're going to lose big if the big bang that's sitting here, knocks the bottom out of the natural diversity law.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e893	The council said it was natural to await the Storting's handling of this matter. For myself and for the Labour Party, I can say that it was natural to await the posts of the Council of State in this room. That's what we've got. The starting point here has been what was left after the wolf settlement of June last year, where we wanted a government that dampened the conflict between people and society on the one hand and wolf on the other. Now several speakers here have told the story of time since. I'm not going into that right now, but what we can say is that the conflict is not subdued, it's increased. Now, after today, we can – and I repeat, we can – come back to where we wanted to be last June: that we have predators in our fauna, that we take our international obligations seriously, that we have a sustainable administration that ensures a reproducible tribe, and that by a large majority we have now established the framework for sound management, which the population can have confidence in, so that the level of conflict can go down. There's a special situation in Stortinget that the government parties are turning towards their own government council, hitting him in and giving instructions. But here, too, what we need to establish will ensure that the majority's clear position becomes a practical policy. Then I would like to add that I too was in doubt when I heard the Council of State on the radio today early, where it seemed as if he was trying to create a new, alternative story, but we must be able to say so that the doubt must be cleared out of the way with the Council of State saying in this room with the Prime Minister present. It was nevertheless such that I was about to ask the Prime Minister to confirm what the Council of State has now said, and as the government parties stand behind, but I found that there must be limits to how far to draw this matter. Once the Council of State has said what he has done, the parties are behind what they have done, and the Prime Minister is in the Chamber, we have to base it. On this basis, we in the Labour Party choose to have confidence that this policy for both people and wolves is taken seriously. The Labour Party has thus been given the necessary clarifications to make it absolutely clear that we are not voting in favour of the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e904	Yeah, that's good. I sat down and looked at the mistrust proposals submitted in Stortinget since 1980. The flues and populist parties have a very high proportion of them. Of all the mistrust proposals that have been promoted in the Stortinget since 1980, the Progress Party stands for 15 of them and SV for 7 of them. All of the other parts that are represented in the hall today stand for 16 of them. It says something about how rarely it's used, in what context it's used, and a little bit about what kind of batches it uses. It's serious. The left has done it once since 1980. I want to talk a little bit about fear. I think it's important to take fear seriously. I don't think you should flaunt the fear of others, but I also think it's about political leadership not playing on the fear of others – whether it's fear of other people, or it's for other animals. I can admit a great weakness: I'm alive a protected species in Norwegian fauna – it's called hoggorm. It's blocking my open-air life. I can't go to Nordmarka in the spring. It's a nightmare. Hoggorm is a peaceful species. I am for its peace, and I believe that it should remain peaceful – I do not believe that it should be eradicated. I like to celebrate the tranny of nature, where one can go on a mountain trip without ever meeting a worm. I don't think fear should be the starting point for making policies, seas if you have respect for others having it. The second point here is that I believe that there should be effective and rational management, which does not cultivate the conflicts that are. But, dear President, it's actually a large majority of the Norwegian people who think we should have the big predators. Who is it that has really developed this conflict? At least it's not a responsibility that the Left is ready to take. We have neither organized the major demonstrations nor stood and cried out. This is created by the fact that someone grows the extremes of the debate and does not try to approximate the creation of a majority capable of reaching what the majority of the Norwegian people want, namely to have the large predators in the Norwegian fauna. So don't practice the extreme! Cultivate the midpoints. I just want to point out that the Left and SV voted in favour of the government's proposal for a big message. That was a good suggestion. It had come to create a majority, and I think it would have met exactly what is the middle point, which people also want. The problem in this room is that the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Workers' Party will satisfy both the Bern Convention and the Natural Diversity Act while one will shoot all the wolves. That's not possible. You actually have to choose.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e919	For the Central Party, this is a serious matter. It is a serious matter because it affects life and everyday life to many around this country. Many of them have probably felt in the last year that they have not quite reached out with their story of how their everyday lives are. The representative, Bru, was concerned that the centre party really had a different position. Yeah, we got it. That's what I said in my post. We got it. We have a different primary position. But we have reached out on this matter. We've backed the majority's comments, sail if we don't fully agree with all the assessments. We have done that because it is now time for someone to tell us that there must be respect for the decisions that Stortinget has made in this matter, and we will contribute to it. That is why we are in the majority today. Like the representative Gundersen, I believe that I will never understand why the government has chosen to deal with this matter in the way they have done in the autumn and winter. Every time the Council of State has been confronted with what a majority in the United Kingdom wants, he has not listened, but instead has chosen to question the decisions and attitudes of the majority of the population. It's been an unwise strategy. It has meant that one has created a strongly increasing level of conflict and a falling trust in government. That's not good. It has taken a long time to get to the recognition that the Council of State expressed from the pulpit today. As late as March, I asked the Council of State quite specifically: why can't Section 18c be used as a basis for licensing? The answer was that it was not possible. So it's happening today that the Council of State says it can be used on a maritime basis. That makes all rhetoric about breaking the law completely out of proportion. Then the rhetoric about breaking the law was turned to the ground. Now the Council of State recognizes that there is room in the law, and now the Council of State is going to use it all of a sudden. Then I would like to ask the Council of State to guarantee, from this pulpit, that there is a legal basis for one to fall on the goal adopted by the majority of the population, namely four to six young people. I think the Council of State can do this today from the pulpit, so that we can fully hear the will of the Council of State to follow up the decision of the Grand Council. I understand that the Right Party and the Advance Party in Stortinget today need to attack the Center Party. It can remove the search light from the very deleted treatment that we have seen during the whole fall and winter, where the Storting has dealt with the matter for three rounds, and where the government in two of the rounds has chosen not to follow up the Storting's requests and clear majority decisions. The centre party is not going to draw its proposal today. We believe that the Council of State has systematically trained the decision of the Storting. It has meant and created new conflicts, and it has also clearly breached the disclosure obligation towards Stortinget – the unconditional disclosure obligation of any government council.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e934	Let me start by saying that I mean very strongly that we are going to have a wolf in Norwegian fauna. I think it's an international obligation, and I think it's a moral obligation. Then everyone hears I'm from Rogaland, and there's no wolf. So it can be easy to say, when you're from Rogaland, that you want there to be wolves in Norway. But like my party leader, I'm concerned about meeting the people who have the wolf close to, with respect. As the representative Storberget said a short time ago, this is not a black-and-white question in the middle of the wolf zone. There's nuances there, too. Also among those who have the wolf close, it is a majority that we should have wolves in Norway. The representative, Mr. Greni, says from the pulpit that she believes the minister has problems understanding that the Stortinget is the Minister's sponsor. On the contrary, I believe that the Minister has understood that the government is an independent state power, and that it is the Stortinget which is the legislative assembly, and that the Council of State thus has no choice but to deal with the laws that we here on the Stortinget have set. Then, as I can understand, he has, at best, made the legal judgements that were necessary, and so on, had no choice but to come back with the matter, as he has done. I therefore believe that there is no basis for voting in favour of the motion of censure of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e942	The Council of State's legislative proposals therefore have no votes – none from the Right, none from the Progress Party, none from any other party supports the Council of State's proposals. It's a pretty new situation that a government doesn't have a single support player in the hall. And that's not in round one, it's not in round two, it's in round three that the Council's proposals don't get any support. There is no great declaration of trust from anyone. Clearly, it cannot be done when the Storting instructs in detail how to write the new Roofing Game Regulation. It is not a reference, it is quite clear in the form of decisions, not in the form of a comment, how to have a new regulation on predatory game, and what legal clauses should be on the basis. And you decide – not only in the notes, but you decide your own decision – how to use the majority comments in this position, both in the follow-up, practice and management of the wolf policy, which has hit it as well as possible. First, you decide how to change the rules of robbery, and then you instruct the Council of State how to understand the comments. A clearer speech from the Stortinget is not appropriate, and there is absolutely no statement of trust from a Council of State to be explained in detail how to understand law and how to write regulations. Until December, the State Council of Helgesen said nothing that there could be a problem with the proposal that the Storting had adopted. He was calm. Then came December 20th, and the Council of State Helgesen said no, it is not possible under the Law of Nature to implement the adopted licence hunt. Today I understood Helgesen that it is now possible. What was impossible from December to April was it possible to hear the State Council Helgesen say today is possible. I ask the State Council to confirm that. Does the State Council of Helgesen now believe that it is possible to implement the will of the Stortingen and the rapprochement of June 2016 with the applicable law, or does he not mean it? That's what's important to get ready. Is it so in the future, if the Council of State Helgesen is still the Council of State when the next round is to be taken, that he does not believe that the Law of Nature does not allow the will of the Storting to be carried out? I hope that we will get a clear answer to either from Helgesen or the Prime Minister before this debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e949	A motion of censure may be made on any basis – there are no formal rules for it – but the grounds for the motion of censure, as many have said from here, I cannot see anything right. The government has followed up Storing's policy and has announced that they will continue to do so. Already last year – I read parts of the message – informed them about these problems, so some representatives have shown a lack of ability to understand what was said there. There is no reason to claim that one has not informed the Size. But to me, this is the most story of how we went from one of the broadest comparisons made at Stortinget in just a few years, where all the parties represented at that time were in – to full conflict. We did so in an area where long-term and broad settlements are particularly important, namely nature management, and we did so in spite of documented success on the most important parameters, i.e. better management of the large populations, reduced loss of grazing animals to predators, more local management and greater knowledge in the field – yet. Sometimes you have to see yourself in the rear mirror, and I think that in this case the Storting can't be blamed on lawyers, bureaucrats or Vidar Helgesen because it happened, but that it's actually the Storting that's responsible – The Storting that managed to make a broad settlement some years ago, follow it up, and that hasn't made it right now. It will be the responsibility of all parties, including the parties that are currently outside in different fields. I still think I'm going to say that one should come out of that situation, it's also necessary that the Labour Party and the Right – like the two largest parties, which are basically always with if one can call it a broad settlement – be part of it and take full responsibility. What makes this area difficult is that we have a two-part objective. The objectives are slightly different, and then it's hard to balance them. My experience is that in both the Right Party and the Labour Party it has happened that forces and views that do not represent the broad plurality in the middle, but which are on the side, have been allowed to dominate and let go and express the party too much. We all have to take responsibility, but if one is to come out of it, the forces that will try to unite it to take care of viable populations and that grazing is to be possible must dominate more in the future. The main reason why this is necessary is that without it we are not able to cope with the difficult task of managing the large predators in the long term, and in that conflict also those who feed in Norway, who depend on us having good solutions to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e960	I come as known from Uppland, and Oppland is the country that has the most grazing animals on the outback. Only sheep there are 260,000 animals, and 95 pst. of these animals are released on the periphery and are organised in pastures. So it's going on in order. In these days, the sheep farmers in Uppland, with thousands of other farmers all over the country, have been watching at night in their feathers. They take care to ensure that the lambing is separated in the best possible way, and as a rule it is OK. In other cases, they may have to struggle with cardiopulmonary rescue to save lives. At the beginning of June last year, just after a farmer had released his animal from grazing, he lost 15 sheep after the wolf had been on the move. This sheep farmer from Quam had even used hair feet to give life in a little crab that spring. It belongs to the story that there was seen wolf in the area, but it was not confirmed, because it was not traceable. Vision observations are, as you know, not enough. I think the image of the little lamb that is warmed by a hairfoot in the trap of the farmer is a good illustration of the care of the farmers for their animals. The discussion on the taxation of wolves or predators in general is not about bloodthirsty farmers who are neither occupied by their animals nor about caring for the biodiversity represented by predators. It's not about fear of meeting the wolf. It's about caring for the animals, about their livelihood. We know that administration also means taxation, and that is sound management of this matter. That was what the robbers took seriously with their licensing decisions. That the Council of State did not think that it was not in line with the law until we went into the Christmas dinner, is not acceptable. Today, it is about the government's handling of what Stortinget has decided. It's not about the Center Party. I think the farmers out there are stated. For confidence, it is important that the decision of the Storting should be followed, and that is what the government and the Council of State have not done. That no vote in favour of the proposals of the Council of State today, says everything about the lack of trust. Upland has management responsibility for populations of both yerv and yerv, and in addition, we have challenges with both bear and wolf. Sometimes it's been hunting all four big predators at the same time. So the total load is going to be very high for those who live on the outback. There are observed wolves in the Lillehammer regions now, and fortunately the sheep is not released yet, but it is approaching. Should one be able to live on grazing animals in my county, it is absolutely vital that the management functions. This case clearly shows that the Council of State has not followed up what Stortinget has decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e973	I agree with the representative Arnstad that the matter is serious, but we also need to look at the dimensions of it. Now, according to Rovdata this year, there are seven young people in Norway – one youth above what is the majority’s target of last spring, with four to six young people. It's also what triggers a Central Party mistrust proposal. It'll be on their account. But what is equally serious is what the majority is trying to do: the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, which by decision will instruct a government council to, if possible, commit crimes. It is clear that when we do not now change the law – and the Left is well pleased that the cooperation agreement is firm – the legal text, which goes under § 18, both b and c, of the Nature Diversity Act, still applies; b: that one must have a level of damage, and c: that one can open up to public interests of essential importance. However, even if this is to be taken into account, it is still the case in other sections that one can only have withdrawals if ‘the purpose cannot be achieved in another satisfactory way’. In drawing up regional policy considerations, it is clear that both business development, housing, social activities and outdoor life can be better achieved in ways other than the harvesting of wolves. Then I would like to say to the representative Solhjell that I fully agree with him that earlier there was a broad settlement, and that it was a broad settlement that also made peace. Last spring, the Left was quite clear that we were going to try to make a broad settlement also in terms of stock targets for wolves. We even negotiated an agreement with the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and SV on what it would look like, but it was not interested in these parties when they went to their own groups. Then we didn't get any width last year. This year, the Left has also been concerned that yes, we could look at an adjustment to the Natural Diversity Act, so that we could have some more flexibility in the management even within the wolf zone, but then we have to assume that it is because we have a larger population. Neither were these parties willing to watch. Then we have to go back to what is the possibility we have, that the Law on Natural Diversity is firm, because that is the starting point and the basis of the cooperation agreement we have. I think that's something we've really tried, is stretching us to get a large width.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e984	There are some misunderstandings I need to address from the pulpit. Claiming that the State Council Helgesen has not stated that this could be contrary to the law, I believe that it is directly wrong. I mean he did it in writing last year. I believe that it is a hopeless administration practice on the part of Stortinget to say to a council of states that if he violates the law and interprets it as the Stortinget does in comments, because we do not want to change the law, it means in the utmost consequence that one says to a council of states that either he gets mistrust in the Stortinget, or then it becomes a matter of national law, because he is legally violating a law that he knows he's breaking. Then I realize that the Council of State is sitting here under a distrust debate, for state councils are actually going to deal with law decisions, which are of the highest we do in this room, and instructing state councils to break the law, I think I'm under the dignity of this room as to how we should act in the relationship with state councils. So I mean, as the representative of Elvesuen said, it would have been possible here to reach a broader consensus. It would have been possible to find a broader foundation, which had not been based on the extremities, but which had actually tried to reach the point that is also the people's will in Norway, namely that we should be able to keep the large predators even in Norwegian fauna. We in the left have at least been willing to stretch. We've gone so far that we also wonder if we've begun to approach what's in the law, in the agreement we agreed to, but the other parties chose to go another step further to prevent us from joining that team. I think it is possible to build a broad consensus here in Stortinget, also in the wolf policy. I think it's possible to figure out the tipping point. I think it's important to have an administration that makes us meet those who live in these areas, where we have a reasonable hunt for these animal species too, but then it must be based on the stock targets and the international assumptions that we have also had in the management of our predatory strains. And I don't understand why this is going to be carried out to the extreme, but I understand that the basic driving force of populism lies in the mistrust proposals. They have never ever cast a government, but they have often undermined Parliament and parliamentarianism in this Chamber in the way that one uses it, and today, unfortunately, I think today is a bad day to make a motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e995	I am very pleased with the setting that we now have for treatment. It allows us to have good management of the wolf tribe we have in Norway. And I am – believe it or not – well pleased with what I heard from the Council of State earlier today, when he confirmed that the setting with which the Stortinget comes should be followed, and that we should manage the wolf in line with other species of predatory game – even in line with other species of game in this country. The rescue in the case has been taken up many times from this pulpit. The representative Trine Skei Grande said she was afraid of hoggorm, that it ruined a part of her quality of life, and that fear should not be enough to eradicate or kill animals. No, but fear also has to do with quality of life. Taking predators out isn't just based on fear, it's based on being able to have quality of life with the background of being able to live out in an area where there's wolf, live with domestic animals. It has rights to do, such as to hunt and to have income from hunting. It has to do with an entire nutritional basis. So there are many things that can determine if you can take out the wolf – not just fear. It's compounded. It has to do with quality of life, being able to live without being afraid. It could be going in nature, sending kids to school, living off and doing business in an area where we have predators. All of this together is going to determine if we're going to be able to take out the wolf. It's a little amazing when I hear that a large majority in Norway wants to have wolves. Yes, there are enough people who want to have wolves. I have looked at some nationwide polls asking the question: Do you think there is too little wolf, fit with wolf or too much wolf where you live? Then someone says, "There's nothing wrong with wolves where we live - in Rogaland." In Rogaland there is no wolf, so I want to interpret it so that those who are from Rogaland – or from Hordaland or from Sogn and Fjordane – think it's true with no wolf. It's not like that. You go in and look at the measurements that are, you see that there's no large majority for us to have wolves. But we've decided in this room that we're going to have a viable stock of wolves. We're going to have that, but then it's going to be managed in a sensible way. I think we can do that now. Now we're going to figure out if it's a viable population. We've radio-marked the wolf to look at the lifestyle. But the most important thing, as also the representative Gundersen was in: we're going to have research and investigate the genetic origin of the wolf. That is the most important thing, because it will determine whether we really have a wolf tribe in Norway that we can have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1008	I see that the Council of State has asked for the floor, and then I would like to repeat the question: Does the Council of State now believe that there is a legal basis for stopping the fall in the license or damage of the wolf in order to implement the decision of the Grand Council, whether the law is not amended? It's important that the Storting get an answer to that, and it's important that the individual parties here in the hall get an answer to that. I am thinking in particular of the government's supporting parties today, the Left, the Environment Party and the SV. Otherwise, I noticed the representative Hansson's statement that the opinion of the wolf is the acidic stone itself in the protection of nature in Norway. The representative used strong words about the Center Party, and I can say that we live very well with it, and I'll explain it. The wolf in Norway is not endangered by extinction. It is not genetically unique, because the wolf was gone from Norwegian fauna for many years. The government does not follow up the Storting decision on a clarification of the genetics. It's not random, in my opinion. The Party wishes to base its protection policy on a scientific basis, a scientific basis on priority species and selected natural areas. Rare species shall be protected by sea. That's the base of the Center Party today as before. I would like to say this: the Green Party is a shallow party for nature protection when it departs from the scientific basis for protection issues. The best example was in the protection of the coniferous forest in Nordmarka, where they were champions of the term ‘juvenile forest’. Adventure forest protection was the symbol of going away from the scientific base. Without a scientific basis, a clearly defined purpose, it is also not possible to have the necessary follow-up of what is protected. The National Auditor has pointed it out. Therefore, the central part of the rock is on the scientific basis. If the Green Party does not change its view of nature protection, it undermines a people's respect for protection, especially among the value conservatives who live in and off and are interested in nature, who want to manage it in a long-term perspective. I am looking forward to a debate with the Greens on a deeper nature protection which also includes the genetics of wolves and wolves.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1021	It's approaching the end of the debate, so I thought I'd bring up a couple of issues that have emerged. I have a past as the leader of the predatory game topic in region 4, that's Oslo, Akershus and Eastfold. When I was the leader, and we were dealing with wolf management, we had one big challenge, and that was that we didn't reach the stock target. We were told by the government that set up at that time – and we told the people of the wolf zone – that only one reaches the target, we can allow the management of wolves. It may be a long way to go what is the problem in this case. People in the zone have been suggested a stock regulation once the stock target has been reached. We have a nature diversity law, adopted in 2009, which provides a strict restriction on the possibility of hunting, together with the Berne Convention. We have predatory wildlife subjects who have been authorized by the roaring game regulations to allow licensing to prevent damage to buffs and tamrein, by reference to the old game law, which was partially repealed in 2009. As the Council of State itself said, the bill that we are dealing with today provides an opportunity to do a post-work to the law. In the preparatory work, there were few comments on what could be included in the concept of ‘other material public interests’. There is this possibility the majority here today has used. And we're discussing the content of what we're putting into, the term 'district policy considerations'. No one should doubt that the Right wants a viable wolf population in Norway, but it must also be possible to have an administration within the zone. I believe that since 2009, there has been an imbalance between stock objectives and the Nature Diversity Act, and that it has been necessary for the Stortinget to correct that imbalance, and that is what we are doing today, I feel. It was equally necessary to move the home to the predators from the old game law and to the nature diversity law, because we do not change the law, we just move the basis of the home from the wildlife law to the natural diversity law § 18, first paragraph, points (b) and (c). All in all, I would like to say that there has been a good debate today, and I must express myself in this way and say that I very much appreciate the fact that the Central Party alone supports the distrust of the State Council, Vidar Helgesen, in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1036	I have some moments I want to record. One is that what creates challenges with the whole discussion around it with the stock target that the Storting has adopted, is that it was previously a stock target that was meant to drag up the wolf population, while it is now meant to have the purpose from the bulk of the litter to bring down the wolf population. That's when one comes up in that conflict with the Natural Diversity Act, and it's put on the verge. I'll get more into it. My second point is that the challenges posed by the majority decision of the Storting last year are not explained. That's not true. In a letter from the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment on 26 May 2016, in an answer to questions from the SV and the Committee, the Council of State therefore states: ‘If the new target number were to lead to an actual stock at the lower limit of 4 young people including border revirons, this would mean a reduction compared to the actual wolf population as we have managed it in recent years. So my best understanding of the Berne Convention is that a lower limit on the stock target than today’s actual population will be questionable in relation to the Convention.» So all doubt is fat off the track. This was already said by Vidar Helgesen. That's why I call it a farce, because now later the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right, as if the government were just put in place with this decision and the comments that are coming, and that we should finally reach the goal. But it's not safe at all. If we read what is the majority's own wording in the position we are dealing with today, they refer to the Berne Convention and say the following: ‘The majority therefore consider that it is likely that the wolf population will have a negative impact on national regional policy considerations if withdrawals are to be permitted. The majority would stress that the assessment of whether the conditions covered by the concept of ‘public interest of material importance’ are met must be carried out in each decision...’. This was also the subject of the Council of State. And then it comes – and this is what the whole majority of people have joined in: ‘The majority would point out that licensing is only allowed when withdrawals do not threaten the survival of the population, no other satisfactory solution has been found and when the public interest in existence is considered to be significant.’ This is the core of the matter. So the majority of us here are saying that there is now too much more killing of wolves, because now there must be all sorts of possible territorial policy considerations to count against. But it has to be so that this can't be achieved in any other way. It would have been tempting to ask the Center Party: Does the Center Party really think that they have so little potential district policy that they won't be able to offset the consequences of anything more wolf than what's in the stock target?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1062	The centre party has challenged me in various ways from the representatives of Arnstad, Schlagsvold Vedum and Lundtägen to determine what ultimately becomes the concrete outcome of the Storting decision in this legal discussion. I can assure the Central Party that I am not going to take over the role of the courts in our state. Let me summarise some of the main points: In the proposition, which is being considered today, the government makes it clear that, according to its wording, § 18c can provide a basis for killing according to wider considerations. I mentioned some of them in my post, but the threshold is high. In today's setting, the Storting gives new assessments of the content of the law, how the law is to be understood. That's what they call post-work. Then the law is interpreted and applied in specific individual cases. It also underlines the majority of the Committee, including the Centre Party. And the considerations and assessments that the Storting now points to in the suspension will now be included in the interpretation and application in the individual case. But at the end of the day, it's the courts that, according to our state, decide how the law is to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1071	The next speaker is the representative and the parliamentary leader, Marit Arnstad, who still has 3 minutes of speaking time in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in such debates. This applies to all the parliamentary leaders.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1077	It's good that you have the ability to use your speaking time! Firstly, I would like to emphasise something that the case rapporteur said, and which I feel is quite important in this matter: there has been an opinion in the administration, in the decision-making authorities, that only one person reaches a stock target, can also be allowed to manage the predatory game, whether it is bear, wolf, rag or yerv, and thus also to make a licence. There is some of the things that have collided in this matter. It's been said when one was below the target. And then all of a sudden you get over the stock measure, and then you don't want to use the legal space that exists to make the license agreement. That's what the majority of the Storing today says that one has to do, one has to use the legal space that exists. I also think that the setting in a very good way proves that the legal space exists. The national freedom of action in respect of public interests under the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act is quite great. It can vary from state to state, and it is larger if the population is increasing. It is in the public interest that we have defined some clear interests, including: district policy, business practice, etc. That is why I am concerned when the Council of State today goes up and says that he will not guarantee that it will open up for use, among other things. of § 18c will provide a room within the law to fall on the stock target of four to six young people, as the Stortinget has decided. That means that the Council of State still won't stand behind the goal that Stortinget has decided on at four to six young people, but he thinks like that: I can't stand it any more – I'll let the courts decide it. That's what the Council of State really thinks. I think that's a bit of a pleasant performance. I must also be allowed to say – I see that there are some attacks from the Left and the Left – that in my opinion the majority in the case is the Right, the Advance Party, the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, a quite broad majority. So I'm a little surprised when Ola Elvestuen claims that because the Left isn't there, there's no broad majority. I think it is an overwhelmingly broad majority, although Left, SV and MDG are not in it. They've never been on any of these majority groups. The centre party has also been outside sometimes, but we have gathered now when it is important in the matter, but it has never done so, SV, Left and MDG.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1090	Now our parliamentary leader, Gahr Støre, has well clarified the Labour Party's position on the motion of censure of the Senterpartie. Through this debate, we have made it clear by the majority in the Committee and in the Grand Chamber that the room for action is being given, and the Council of State has confirmed that the room for action has been given to him. That's what this really is all about. This, of course, is not, if it is chosen to be used, an interpretation that says that Stortinget is asking the Council of State to break the law. On the contrary, it is the Storting that has said that an expanding space of action, and then it is the government that must seize it, and I have understood it there that the Council of State wants to use that opportunity. Then the debate up to the SV, the Left and, in part, the Greens. Just let it be very clear: the agreement and the stock target that is set, underpins that there will be wolf in Norwegian nature. All other claims are very weak and cannot be justified on a professional basis. It is also the case that in the current situation, we are actually above the stock target of four to six young people, three of whom are genomics. Before June last year, we had a population of three helnorphic young people a year, and with that goal we were able to build a wolf tribe in Norway – from the time the representative Rasmus Hansson was a small child, where there was no wolf, and also when the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås grew up, there was no very wolf in Norway either. But we've got a evolution in the wolf population now that suggests a wolf population that will keep a number of juveniles per year at a level between four and six. That we then make a regulation of the wolf population, is really quite natural, precisely to maintain confidence in the administration, and that the people who live within the wolf zone should also have a relationship with it. That's what's been prepared in this setting. I hope that, after this debate, both the SV, the Left and the Environmental Party of Greens will end up using the term that there are people who do not want wolves in Norwegian nature. Now it is a unanimous big deal that determines that we want wolves in Norwegian nature. It's a pretty unique position. I don't think the Storting has ever been in it before.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1101	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1106	There is no professional disagreement that we are far beyond the stock of wolves. Nor is there any disagreement that this is the third time the Council of State is instructed by Stortinget – no one supports the original legislative proposals of the Council of State. The councils made a decision before Christmas where he stopped a legal hunt determined by the robbers. Now Stortinget has gone in and said that you should have a new Roofing Game Regulation, and one has instructed the Council of State to read the comments and base them on the further Roofing Game Management. My challenge to the Council of State is: Would the decisions taken before Christmas be in a different light after the decisions taken today by the Council of State, or does the Council of State think that it would have no significance for the decisions taken before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1113	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1118	The Council of State does not respond to the question, whether there is a legal basis in the judiciary to stop the collection of licences and damage to wolves in order to implement the decision of the Grand Duchy. So the Council of State is on what he said in the NRK, in Political Quarter, today. That is why, in total, this is a very solid basis for the motion of censure. This is the result of a long-term training from the government – from the Right and the Advance Party. One has breached the obligation to provide information. One has not assessed licensing by virtue of § 18(c) of the Nature Diversity Act. The government's legislative amendment proposal is unanimously rejected, and the government is instructed to change the game regulations. Because the Center Party is probably enough from the councillor Helgesen. Governments are training Storting's will. Mistillite is therefore necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1127	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1132	Last but not least, there is a mistrust because the State Council, Vidar Helgesen, has followed the law: it is alarming and, in fact, totally unacceptable – from a parliamentary point of view – from the Stortinget side. We're changing the whole relationship between big business and government. In the decisions made in the spring, the law and the text of the law were followed. What is crucial in this matter, too, is that the Storting cannot oblige a government council to break the law. The text of the Nature Diversity Act and of the Berne Convention must remain the basis for the individual cases and must also apply to decisions to be taken in the future. Then, of course, we're going to take on the serious situation of people living with both wolves and other large predators. We have to come up with measures to meet them, and there are also proposals on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1141	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1146	As long as the majority of the population doesn't change the law of natural diversity, what we do in the Storting today is not giving any blank authority to shoot wolves, which is a peaceful species. What should have been done differently in wolf policy? In our opinion, we should increase the stock target instead of reducing it. The State should have provided more financial support to municipalities with wolves, so that they could spend money on damage prevention and anti-conflict measures. The government is encouraged to do it again, but it hasn't come into place. SV will, along with other parties. We believe that the compensation system should be changed, so that farmers who prevent losses in the wolf zone are premiered, instead of just being compensated for the losses. Norway should learn from countries with significantly more predatory and minor losses, such as Slovakia, where the sheep breeds are bred to prevent predatory losses, and herds are used to protect the flocks. This has not been the strategy chosen by the majority of the population and farmers’ organisations. As long as we don't go that way, there will still be conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1155	Very briefly: The representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, asked if the decision that was taken before Christmas would be in a different position with the Stortinget adopting today. I would like to remind you that one of the things that are in the setting today, and that the Central Party is in it, is that it is in the specific individual cases that these assessments are to be made. It requires thoroughness, interpretation and application of the law, at the end of the day in the Court of Justice. The centre party also agrees with this position that it is in the specific cases that decisions are taken, in which case the Committee's position today and the comments that are there are included in that assessment. That means that I can't now say what will be the concrete result in individual cases. It really agrees with the Center Party, it's just that it now sounds like they're not.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1161	Then I have to ask the Council of State to clarify whether he believes that what the Storting says today, that § 18c provides increased room for the licensing of the wolf – whether he agrees with it, or whether he does not agree with it. Because what he now went up to the pulpit and said could give the impression that the Council of State does not believe that using § 18c does not give increased scope for licensing. I would like him to confirm that this is indeed the case. It would have been beneficial if he could also give some assessments based on the large majority of people who have said about what assessments should be based on § 18(c) and whether, in the light of those assessments, he could have given some assessments to the Grand Duchy of Great Britain about the complaint handling last autumn had been different if one had been able to focus on regional policy considerations, on hunting, on psychosocial issues, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1168	Let me repeat what I said instead, as a response to the representative Arnstad, that already in the proposition that is being dealt with today, the government says that according to its wording § 18c can be used for licensing. But again, as the Zenterpartie fully agrees with the vote today – it is in the specific cases that the result will be shown.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1173	Today's majority position is based on the fact that there is a much larger and wider scope of action related to § 18c than the State Council expresses in the proposition sent to Stortinget. And that's the room for action I understand that the Council of State has today acknowledged to Stortingen, so that he would let go of the fact that there was so much discussion about distrust. But now towards the end, the Council of State actually cast doubt on whether he believes that there is a wider scope for action under Section 18(c). It is, of course, the whole heart of the Stortinge situation, from the majority, that the scope of action is much larger than that expressed by the Ministry in its proposition. It should also be possible for the Council of State to say something on that basis if there would be other leads for the complaints that were dealt with last autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1180	I have said that before, and I say it again, that in the setting today, Stortingen gives new assessments of the content of the law that Stortingen did not give in the preliminary work. They are now given as post-workers, and therefore this will be part of the concrete assessments that will be made in the future. It's also the center part that's known in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1185	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1209	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ola Elvestuen on behalf of the Left, Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 2, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 3, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 4, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Minister for Climate and Environment Vidar Helgesen does not have the confidence of the Stortinge.’ As this is a motion of censure, voting in line with common practice will be done by roll call. The plug starts with representative No. 8 from the Nordland County. Those who vote in favour of the proposal answer yes. Those who vote against answer no.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1249	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to report on the work of a new independent investigation into the genetic origin of the wolf stock in Norway in the context of the draft revised budget for 2017 and to present a timetable for progress’.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1264	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government in the draft revised national budget for 2017 to propose a mechanism for the allocation of funds for conflict mitigation and loss prevention by municipalities’.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1280	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Left, Socialist Left and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish a management plan for wolves in Norway with short-term and long-term objectives for the management of wolves in Norway and based on a scientific evaluation of the stock’.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1315	It is voted on over I and II. The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1329	It's said over III. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1345	The results here are so clear that we leave the previous voting, but we can take this voting again. We're going to vote again over III.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1359	Then we finished voting in this round, and we move on to case no. 2nd@item: inlistbox Svein Roald Hansen had taken over the president's office here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1379	I would like to present with this the presidency's position on the Storting on the issue of the downgrading of two documents in connection with the Storting's treatment of the Riksrevision's investigation into police and defence object protection. The main study report is exempted from publication for the sake of national security. There is a broad consensus that it is not appropriate to downgrade this. The documents on which this case is concerned are, firstly, the summary prepared by the National Audit Office of the main report for publication and, secondly, the letter from the Ministry of Defence giving detailed reasons why the Ministry considers that the summary cannot be published. These two documents are classified ‘confidential’ and ‘restricted’ respectively under the Security Act. The reason why the presidency places the issue of degradation before the Storting is that, in a letter dated 28 March of this year, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee asks the Presidency to initiate a process for the Storting to downgrade those two documents. As further explained in the vote, the question of the degradation of the Riksrevisions summary has been presented to the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister in several rounds. The subsequent conclusion is that the government insists that the downgrading may harm the national security or other vital and national security interests and that the Grand Duchy’s request for downgrading cannot be met. If the Grand total is to degrade, if appropriate, an overall presidency shall assume that this must be done in the form of law. This is explained in more detail in the statement. On the other hand, on the question of whether the Storting should adopt such a law, the presidency is divided. A majority of the members of the Presidency, the members of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, are moving towards degradation, while a minority, the members of the Workers' Party, are promoting proposals for a special law on degradation. I will briefly explain the majority's position and assume that the minority will explain its position in a later article. The majority of the Presidency considers that, in exceptional situations, the Storting should only take advantage of its ability to downgrade classified documents. As an argument for downgrading, there has been evidence of the downgrading of the Lund Commission report in 1996. The majority believe that today's case on essential points deviates from the case at the time. First, the Lund Commission was set up by the Storting itself. Furthermore, the Commission’s theme — the examination of allegations of illegal monitoring of Norwegian citizens — was the subject of major public debate, the strong public interest involved, and it was mainly in the past — all this in contrast to today’s case. In addition, at the time, the government understood that the report was being uninstalled, which is not the case now. The majority believe that the Degrading Storting will establish a new practice that brings the issue of degradation into the ongoing political work of the Storting in a very unfortunate way. The majority will also refer here to the internationally recognised principle that it is the publisher of the information who has decided that it must be kept secret, which must also determine the issue of publication. It is in the nature of the case that it will be very difficult for the Storting in a qualified way to review the professional judgements of the administration on the need for grading. In this case, there is also reason to stress that the documents and other documents in question in this case are actually available to all representatives of the Storting. The government has also signaled throughout the proceedings that it is concerned that the Storting should receive adequate information and that the government has therefore been prepared to provide further information on the matter in a closed hearing. The size will thus have access to all the information available in this case. It is therefore my and the majority's position in the presidency that, on a general basis, the Storting should exercise a very high degree of restraint in degrading secret information on its own initiative. A new practice in this field can also reinforce confidence in the relationship between magnification and government and build barriers to future information exchange. This will also be very unfortunate from a democratic point of view. On this basis, the majority of the Presidency considers that, in line with the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the downgrading should not be complied with and the majority therefore recommends that the matter be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1400	I take the floor on behalf of the minority in the presidency to present the minority proposal, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The members of the Presidency of the Workers' Party propose a separate special law to downgrade the Riksaudition summary of the police and defence object security investigation and to downgrade the Ministry of Defence's letter, which argues against the publication of the summary. This case is about Norway's security, about our vulnerability, and about what kind of preparedness we actually have. The bombing in the government quarter and the killings on Utøya in 2011 showed us that Norway as a society was not well enough prepared for a terrorist attack. In the minutes and hours that followed, perhaps the most striking thing about the lack of readiness was that the individual offices and resources did not find each other, that there was not a good enough cooperation between civil and military preparedness, that much did not work, and that buildings and objects were not well enough secured. We got the Gjørv Commission and the Special Committee in Stortinget, led by Knut Arild Hareide. Clear conclusions were drawn on the importance of coordination between the agencies and good cooperation between police and defence. The national audit concludes in the object protection case that important objects are not secured and that this could pose a risk to life and health. These include: on the lack of cooperation between defence and police. The National Audit Office believes that our emergency authorities will not be able to provide adequate protection for the central features of society in a state of crisis or terror. On this basis, we believe that a downgrading is necessary in order to provide the public with a broader understanding of the matter than the very brief review of the study provided by the Riksrevision Document 1 provides. In a democratic society, it is important that there should be an open debate on parliamentary control. Not only the members of the Grand Duchy but also the citizens of the country have a legitimate interest in knowledge of weaknesses in national security, not least because the background to this matter lies in the Gjørv Commission's report on 22 July terrorism. The report, which gave an undamaged picture of the emergency situation, was entirely public. It belongs in this context as well. We are therefore probably very surprised that, despite repeated appeals from the Storting and from a united presidency, the government – let me stress it – has not found, in any way, to be able to meet the Storting's wishes for publicity. And let me add: they've had many times and ways to change their mind. The Presidency and the Administration have been trying for several months to get both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice and Defence to deflect the case. We have also addressed the Prime Minister. Of course, we agree with the Presidency's majority that there should be serious societal interests in order for the Storting to oversee the government's assessments of the need for security-grade information. However, we believe that there are precisely such burdensome reasons that apply in this case. The issue is about the ability of police and defence to protect objects of fundamental importance to social security. The National Audit Office has used the term ‘very serious’ in its criticism. This is a form of criticism that is used only exceptionally, for example: if there is a risk to life and health. This suggests that the public, and not just wholesale representatives, should have insight into the matter. We have also placed considerable emphasis on the professional assessment of the National Audit Office in our recommendation. The National Audit Office considers that the summary can be published and that neither individual information nor manufacture as a whole violates the provisions of the Security Act. The intention to have a genuine public debate on the central aspects of the country’s preparedness concerns, we believe that the Storting should adopt a separate special law so that further information on the matter can be published. Finally, for the sake of order, let me say that it's not a government document that we're proposing that the Storting downgrade. It is a document from Stortinget's own control body, the Riksrevisionen. With this, I will take up the minority proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1425	The representative of Marit Nybakk has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1430	As was the reference point of the representative Nybakk, I would also like to say that this case has its clear branches back to 22 July 2011. But in the case of the Monitoring Committee, this matter began five months ago. For five months, the Committee on Budgetary Control and Constitution has been working on this matter, including in consultation with the Presidency, to provide a basis for proper treatment here in the plenary. Unfortunately, it may seem that it will not succeed despite this long process. I referred to July 22, 2011 because it was a matter of object protection, preparedness and security for the population in general. As we all know, there was an incident that shook us in our soul, and that triggered strong criticism on the part of Stortinget. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg complained here in Stortinget and assumed responsibility. I would also like to remind you that much of the treatment of the 22nd July Commission report was just about what this matter is about, namely object protection. We remember that Grubbegata and the absence of its closure were one of the most difficult issues we dealt with at the time in the Control Committee. Also at that time there were audits, where a number of responsible officials and government councillors as well as the Prime Minister were called and gave their explanation. In the position of the control committee from then on, criticism of the lack of security of the government quarter is craved, and the then opposition made up of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left felt that the use of time – the years between adopted security laws and the drafting of regulations – was unacceptable and an illustration of the lack of recognition of the purpose and needs of the Security Act. That's what the opposition said. What we should remember now in retrospect, however, is that no one was prepared for a terrorist attack of this kind. The Gjørv Commission also pointed out that no one had really taken seriously that this could affect us. The overall control committee agreed that the government had to respond and follow up all the measures proposed by the Special Committee of the Storting, respectively, under the direction of Knut Arild Hareide, to which the representative Nybakk also referred, and of course the report of the 22 July Commission. Several proposals were adopted by the Stortinget. And more people raised the question of object protection. The Stoltenberg government started a huge and extensive work that we should not experience being unprepared next time it happens. The Gjørv Commission pointed out in its main conclusion that flooding and government in most areas had set up reasonable ambitions for the level of security in society, but that the challenges lie in creating better harmony between words and actions. The Commission put forward seven measures at national level. Point 6 reads: ‘The provisions of the Security Act imposing measures on object protection must be implemented in an offensive manner. NSM must supervise object protection. A national object protection plan should be drawn up in which the tasks are dimensioned and distributed between the police, the defence and the object owners. It must be possible to perform realistic exercises on the selected objects.’» The situation now is that NSM is supervising. It is the departments that have primary responsibility under the Security Act for ‘their’ objects, but, in addition, safety instructions are also in place for police and defence to protect objects that are important for social security. The selection of these objects has also not been fully carried out, cf. the follow-up to Document 1 by the Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice refers to the National Security Authority report and writes that the report focuses on weaknesses in the management of prevention security at all levels. Weaknesses in management anchoring and management of safety work in a large number of establishments may have consequences for businesses and national security. Furthermore, they write: All businesses have to live with a certain risk, but it is essential that businesses know what they need to protect and in what way this should be done. Well, now it's almost six years. Nevertheless, the Riksrevision today believes that central preparedness is not in place. They've gone so far as to think it's very serious. That means, said here at Stortinget's pulpit: Our National Auditor's saying it's about life and health. Then – after this introduction – we are back to what we are discussing today. Is this a particularly important matter? Is this a matter in which the Norwegian people should know well and be involved? That's the theme of this debate, but I gave this introduction to clarify the background and the point of view. The Labour Party believes, as the representative Nybakk has explained, yes. A majority in the Stortinget consisting of the Right and Advance Party and with the support of the Christian People's Party believes no. The Prime Minister believes, she says, that the Storting has the information we need and that the government has received enough criticism. The truth is that the secret part of this case is not read by the Stortinget in plenary – not read by the Stortinget in plenary – or given the opportunity to debate by the Stortinget in plenary. That's what the majority of the presidency is blocking with its decision. Many have said that the debate itself is a historical debate. But I have to say that I feel strongly that the decision that the majority here stands for also has a historical aspect that should call for attention. For this copy, which is in one copy of the Committee's safe, no one in particular has asked for a degradation. No one's asked for it. Because it would be contrary to the provisions of the Security Act. That's why no one has mentioned it. But the summary that the Riksrevision has prepared with care not to provide sensitive information, and that, in the opinion of a single college in the Riksrevision, can be published, is what is now being debated. This is the summary Minister of Justice, the Minister of Defence and the Prime Minister believes that it cannot be published, while the National Audit Office still believes that it is within the framework of what can be published publicly and that the National Audit Board will not change or reindemnify. As the chairman of the control committee, I would like to stress here in the plenary session of Stortinget that the entire committee, from the Riksrevision, issued its report on 18 October 2016, has been in agreement that this is a serious matter. There may be disagreements about things, but we agree that it is a serious matter. As has been explained, there has been a wide-ranging correspondence between the Stortinget and the departments concerned and the Prime Minister on degradation, as has already been said. And there has been correspondence between the Committee and the Presidentship of the Stortinge. I have not written it, President, but I feel now that I have always felt, for my part, as the committee leader, that we have had the presidency on our side. The Presidency has considered that the summary for concrete consideration here does not contain information of such a nature that a public disclosure would threaten the security law – not intended, President. The correspondence is given in the setting, so I will not go into the details. However, I would point out that when, in a letter of 21 November 2016 to the Presidency, the Riksrevision would, in consultation with the departments responsible, try to write about the classified report in such a way that the document did not conflict with the Security Act §11 and 12, there was a change in the matter. For most of us, it seemed like a willingness to publish also by the departments. On 13 January 2017, the Riksrevision informed that they had prepared a summary of the report that had an overall content and a level of detail which, in the opinion of the Riksrevision, would allow it to be publicly available. The National Audit Office stressed in its letter that the bridging report provides a better basis for parliamentary control and that it facilitates transparency in the debate – said our own national audit. However, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice had objected to the Riksrevision summary being made public. In this situation, the national audit found it appropriate to leave the Stortinget to decide on the question of the possible downgrading of the circumscribed report. On the other hand, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Justice and Security asked that the summary be treated as a document containing security-rated information. The majority has complied with this, but would make another attempt and request that the presidency initiate a process to have the Riksrevision's ambiguity report upgraded. This is where my information comes that the presidency agreed and took a concrete initiative towards the Prime Minister by sending a letter to the Prime Minister asking the Prime Minister to take an initiative to have the report upgraded. The Prime Minister replied that the Ministry of Defence would take an initiative towards the National Audit Office with a view to obtaining a new unrated summary of the report. The Prime Minister wanted to take a new initiative towards the Ministry of Defence. The National Audit Office on its side stated in a letter to the Presidency that a further rewriting of the already submitted summary to the Stortinget after their assessment would weaken the seriousness of the matter, and that the Riksrevision stood firm on the circumscribed report that had previously been sent to the Stortinget. I think it's actually also administrative history that the Riksrevision says we don't write anymore, because it goes beyond the severity. At least the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has made a fundamental mark. The National Audit Board found it appropriate to leave the Stortinget to decide on the question of the possible upgrading of the described report. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee tried again and asked the Prime Minister himself to review it. The Prime Minister replied in a letter dated 16 March 2017 that neither the Prime Minister nor the Prime Minister’s office had the power to downgrade and asked the Ministry of Defence, in consultation with the Ministry of Justice and Defence, to review the issue of the upgrading of the summary. The Minister of Defence concluded in a letter dated 15 March 2017 to the Prime Minister that the summary of the Riksrevision cannot be downgraded. I think maybe someone who listens to this feels that this is a little too cumbersome, but it isn't. It is necessary from my point of responsibility in Stortinget to carry this out as carefully as I do here. I am doing this because it is important that the plenary meeting gets an insight into the extent to which this matter has been dealt with, and through this insight into the importance of this matter for the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the European Parliament. After this long round, the Committee had in many ways no choice but to keep an open hearing based on the information contained in Document 1 and in the open letters of the State Councils. In our opinion, it was important to have an open and public debate on as important issues as the report deals with, and that the plenary meeting should also have the opportunity to discuss, discuss and express its views in transparency. It is important for me to say that it was also made aware that the latter consideration – that all relevant information needs to be provided – is so general that a closed hearing was notified if necessary. The open consultation was important, but it also acknowledged to the Committee that the Riksrevision is right in its considerations that the circumscribed report provides a better basis for parliamentary control and that it facilitates transparency in the debate, which, unfortunately, now seems to be stopped. The attitude of the Presidentship of the Storting is, as has been explained, divided, and of course I'm not going any closer to it. The fact that the majority of the presidency is opposed to downgrading, I'd say I'm sorry. The majority of the Presidency should stand on the side of the Storting on this matter and not on the government. Everyone accepts that the Government and Ministry of Defence have the necessary powers to exempt documents from disclosure under the provisions of the Security Act. Everyone accepts that. But Stortinget also has a responsibility – one more time: The Stortinget also has a responsibility – to ensure that the laws given are used as the Stortinget has decided. All those who have read the summary, including the members of the presidency, agree, as I have already said, that there is nothing concrete there that damages the country's security. This is the core of the matter. The most serious thing, however, is that the majority of the Presidency does not choose to support the National Audit Board of the Grand Duchy and the large majority of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Grand Duchy. The Security Act shall not be used to prevent parliamentary control and shall not be used to prevent the necessary public debate on essential issues relating to the security of the population. That should be taken over by the majority of the presidency. As I see it, on this basis, the majority's reasoning is simply not in line with the political and social reality of this matter. For if this case is not of particular importance, I do not understand the content of the word ‘special’. This, as I have said, is about the security of the population, which we were tested six years ago, and which we know with certainty – perhaps – is being challenged again. The Labour Party will therefore, as we have also announced in the hearings, now that such a decision is being taken which is likely to be taken today, take the initiative later today in the Committee's meeting for a closed hearing before the Stortinget departs. I do not take responsibility for the fact that Stortinget's plenary meeting will not receive all the information contained in the documents, which is prevented by the fact that we are not able to upgrade the document that should have been upgraded through this processing. Here, in many ways, the article could have stopped. But on the basis of the information I have received today, I want to give the Storting a special information: During the last meeting of the Committee, on Tuesday a week ago, a unanimous committee asked the Government to forward the summary of the report that the Ministry of Defence itself has said they thought they could be sent without grading. That was the document the Riksaudition rejected, but they said they had such a document, and referred to it. The Committee's intention to ask for it was to be able to make a comparison with the document under consideration here for possible downgrading. But despite the fact that this letter clarified that the document was to be sent to Stortinget without delay, so that we could get the necessary knowledge of the document before this debate, we have not received the document. Having regard to the length of the examination carried out by the Committee, and the seriousness of the matter, I would say that this cannot be characterised differently from the fact that the department here does not show sufficient respect for the Storting. We are not asking for such an important document without delay unless the committee unanimously so requests. The Council of State, which is present here, should therefore, of course, explain in its statement why the Committee's letter has not been answered, as provided for by the Committee. The lack of response to the Committee's enquiry should also perhaps lead the Christian People's Party to reconsider its position on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1515	Having referred to the previous article, I would like to say that there was a great deal to be done here, for those who listened carefully to that post will find that this is inscribed in a systematic series of inconsistency with regard to constitutional rules, for which unfortunately the Workers' Party's fraction in the control committee of all parts of the Stortinget has become a spokesman for. It is, of course, taken a little after memory, but in the previous article it was said something like this: The Storting has a responsibility for keeping the laws as determined by the legislator. With that statement, you've become a spokesman for a completely new state. This is based on the following: Storting, when they adopt a law, e.g. the Security Act, to which we are to return, provides it with the law for the purposes of follow-up, law enforcement and enforcement in the departments and, where appropriate, in the courts. Those who would disagree with the department's assessment of the law can always use the courts. So it's not the Stortinge that can go in and take over that legal application, and the whole reasoning of the representative Kolberg is based on the fact that we can go into the legal application of matters that interest us in particular. Here is the party policy that is the leader. In other respects, it has been shown that exemptions from the general rule can be made if there are overriding social interests. However, as defined in today's debate, when the opposition, led by the Workers' Party, wants to suspect the motives of the government precisely when it does what the Stortinge provided for, namely to comply with the Security Act. And then we have to get into the Security Act, because it instigates two very important principles that are also in line with international legislation in this area. It is that in a complex society with cross- and cross-border intelligence activities and with wide scope for spying, any public body involved in secret information should think through and take responsibility for proper grading, if necessary, for emergency and defence reasons. It establishes the Safety Act, while also the competent body, as the issuer of information, is responsible for assessing whether other matters, such as: Social debate or the culture of openness, which we also want to have in a democracy, want to downgrade. But there is no random fraction in the control committee, there is no Riksrevision assigned to any task, as was claimed by the representative Nybakk. The National Audit Office was almost given a sheriff's authority on behalf of the Stortinget. No, in this context, the Swedish National Audit Office is not aware of the safety law, and at least not of the role that representatives Kolberg and Nybakk will put in the Riksrevision. If you read through their post afterwards, you will see that they argue that it is because the Riksrevision has a different opinion – as an outsider, an instance that does not see the link between the hazards of information that can relate to publicly available information. There's something no one can assess from the outside. That's why one-sided responsibility for this has been placed on those who are issuing the information. It is this incorporation of party policy into concrete assessments of the documents that the majority of the Committee of Control has wanted to instigate and impose on the government. Fortunately, there is a minority in the presidency, and – more importantly – it appears fortunately that such an important element of the Security Act still has a majority in this Chamber. The majority of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs will then do – a committee which has always had full access to the secret parts of the reports, which on that basis can exercise that criticism and which can even address the issues, but not to the same level of detail when it comes to this matter later, in addition to all the possibilities they have for carrying out that control – is to turn to case handlers by itself taking over the exercise of judgement and depriving the competent safety authorities, which under law are entrusted with the task of assessing this, this exercise of judgement and incorporating it into their political judgement. After all, it was just to hear the committee chairman's strong emphasis on something that is not comparable, namely the Donor Commission's position, as far as I have understood, is not part of the security system. The Workers' Party's fraction expresses itself as if the issue of grading should be justified by a desire to spare the Defense and the police from criticism. There are just two open hearings, i.e. two days of consultation in full transparency – and probably a closed hearing, as a result of the debate we have today – which means that this matter has not yet been concluded in the control committee. With regard to the committee procedure, it would also have to be said that it would have been fine if the chairman of the committee sometimes remembered that there was disagreement in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, because already during the discussion we had with the Presidency, and in the dialogue with the Council of State, the members of the Right and the Progressive Party had to draw up a very strong protocol on which, according to the law, the body is to decide on the grading and, if necessary, the downgrading of these documents. The members of the Right and the Progressive Party have always considered the letter of the majority to the Presidency of 14 March as an order to amend or extend the legal basis for downgrading documents. So it would simply be a practice that is contrary to the security law that we have. As stated in Section 11: ‘Any person who issues or otherwise makes displayable information shall ensure that the information is marked with the appropriate level of security.’;» Otherwise, I refer to the review instead. This is an obligation underpinned by criminal law in the same law, namely: ‘Any person gaining access to security-graded information as part of a work, assignment or duties of an establishment shall be obliged to prevent unauthorised persons from becoming aware of the information.’;» Thus, ‘irresponsible’ are those who are not authorised to carry out these assessments. So you would have broken the law if you had pressed the Riksrevision, which in this context really says that it's up to the Storting to do what they want with the case. The national audit has at least been aware that they could not downgrade, because they do not have legal competence to do so. However, I have to say here in this room that there has been a leak to the press that at the same time represents a violation of the criminal code in Section 31 of the Security Act that I referred to, and for more serious cases also the penal code. It should also worry the Storting. Since we are many concerned, middle-aged people participating in this debate, we should also be concerned about that part. For it is essential that a breach of obligations can occur — almost without anyone’s involvement — at some point in the course of the processing of a security-graded document, thereby suspecting all the bodies involved, whether in the Stortinget, individual representatives, or the Riksrevision or the two departments concerned. Unfortunately, there is an even greater potential for damage in this because the integrity of the size and administration depends simply on our ability to protect defence-critical information and preparedness-vital information, and that individuals do not go beyond those assessments in order to achieve their own political purposes or what it should be. The Labour Party's position on the matter, which has been further promoted almost in principle by the representative of Kolberg, provides the basis for wondering whether the Workers' Party at all takes into account the constitutional division of functions when dealing with issues of this nature, or whether everything that comes from there is currently marked by more opportunistic considerations, where one is willing to weaken the rule of law's power distribution, i.e. the interaction between the executive government, the ministry and the magnificence, and that one ignores these very important considerations that I have been faced with, precisely because, for more political and short-term reasons, one wants to criticise a government with which one is politically disagreeable. I think the Workers' Party should think through the role they have played in constitutional matters, which has just given them this impression of being obstructive and not constructive in the joint management of constitutional common rules for which the Storting should be united. The Workers' Party wants the Stortinget to so deviate from the incorporated division of labour between legislative and executive powers by means of a special law, thus creating a dangerous precedent, if it is followed in the future, namely that the Stortinget may take over the proceedings itself after a committee has been set up, and may itself downgrade individual documents at its own discretion. It is not sustainable for the Stortinget to downgrade on its own a document which, under the Security Act, is either a national safety authority, a ministry or the government to downgrade, not least because the Stortinget itself has set these rules by general law, and where the application of the law has been deliberately added to the administration and, where appropriate, independent courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1551	In this case, I will limit myself to saying that I am joining the majority of the presidency's position on the Grand Duchy to downgrade a document that has been graduated by the Ministry of Defence. I fully share the comments on the matter from the majority, which the President has given a good light in his statement. I refer you to the recently made post from the representative Tetzschner and join the content of it. The Progress Party will vote in favour of the majority vote by the Presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1558	What this matter is about is whether the Storting should adopt a special law that degrades some documents in a specific case. The specific content of the case, the National Audit Office's report on the audit of police and defence object protection, will be dealt with by the Stortinget at a later stage. We'll get it back to its full width when the committee's done its work. Today, it is about whether the Storting should override the Security Act and whether the Storting should take the management of documents that have been graded for the sake of national security. The Christian People's Party's position on this issue is clear. We take the Riksrevision's criticism of the deepest seriousness, but we do not, however, put the provisions of the Security Act out of play. Until then, work on security and preparedness is important. In the following, I want to justify our position, and even if the matter is about downgrading, it is of course also necessary to touch on the content of the case complex itself, namely the lack of object protection. After all, it's all the defect in the object protection that's the one at the back here, but as I said, we'll get back to that part of the case later, when it's been discussed in the committee. The issue we have to deal with today is for the Christian People's Party not to contribute to secrecy. This matter is not about protecting those who have not done their job. Nor is it about the fact that we do not want public debate, on the contrary, the failure of object security work should have a public debate. That is why we will, among other things, have an open public hearing on the matter. But the question of downgrading is something else. It's about ensuring that we have a completely necessary division of labour between corruption and government, with the underlying agencies and the secret services, so that these can do the job they're set to do. That's what this case is about. It is about how we can maximise confidence and how we ensure that the executive has the means to ensure the security of the population. As politicians, it is our primary responsibility to provide security and security for the citizens. Then securing critical objects in society is absolutely central. When faults and deficiencies are identified, the authorities must take responsibility. Some of the lessons after July 22 are precisely that there must never be any doubt about who is responsible. Now we have a report from the National Audit Office that uses the term ‘very serious’ about the lack of object protection in Norway. In this case, it is the government with the Prime Minister in charge. Therefore, let there be no doubt: when the Riksrevision believes that the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Defence have not ensured greater and better cooperation between the police and the Defence, as the Stortinget has foreseen, and that important measures to ensure good cooperation and preparation, according to the Riksrevision, have not been implemented, and that therefore there is a risk that important objects will not be able to maintain their operations and functionality in critical situations, this is something that the Christian People's Party takes most seriously. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, it is likely that neither the police nor the Defense, together or separately, will be able to exercise adequate protection of essential objects when a threat situation so warrants. At the same time, the Riksrevision writes in its unupgraded report that the government also does not provide an adequate explanation as to why the work on object protection and basic protection is not given the necessary priority. Just because of the nature of this matter, and the seriousness of this, the Christian People's Party has thought – and believes – that all cards must be on the table. Therefore, it was important for the Christian People's Party to convene among others. the Prime Minister of the open hearing of the Control and Constitutional Committee on 20 March. It is the overall responsibility of the College of Government that its preparedness provides maximum security within the allocated financial framework. This responsibility does not go away even if, for practical reasons, sectoral responsibility has been added to one or more expert councils. During the consultation within the Committee, there was a clear impression that there has been a failure in several stages and in several fields. In spite of the fact that the head of defense bore the charge, facts show the opposite. And the Minister of Justice and the police director had to admit that the work on object security had not come as far as you thought. These are things we're going to get back to at a later stage here in Stortinget. But this is the back cover of this case, and it has to be mentioned in order to give a precise picture of our position related to the question of special law. If we are to ensure the best possible implementation of measures that are essential for people's security, it is important to have a good interaction between corruption and government. The relationship between state powers must be clear and predictable. The government must have the tools needed to do the job, and they must have the necessary room for action. At the same time, the Storting should exercise the elected control, and we should make resources available. We must ensure that the measures are in line with the decisions taken. In order to ensure parliamentary control, the Storting must from time to time go into classified information and documents. As elected representatives, it is our responsibility to control the government at the same time as we treat sensitive information according to the rules governing the handling of various types of classified information. Sensitive information on the way out knows that we can do great damage to the hands of actors and states that do not want us to do well. That must be respected by Stortinget, and the rules for this will be governed by the Security Act. Then I need to stress that the Christian People's Party is initially very questioning as to why the Riksrevision summary has to be graduated. In our view, this could have been published. Nevertheless, there are very good reasons why the provisions of the Security Act on classified information should be respected. Then someone has claimed – and I haven't heard the argument used by political parties that today propose degradation – that when two of the documents are still publicly known, through a leak to the press, you might as well degrade them. It's going to be completely wrong. On the contrary, a subsequent downgrading after a leakage would involve a subsequent approval of an illegal act. Nor can it be ignored that a downgrading in this case can help leak information in later cases for the purpose of provoking a downgrading. Here, the Storting must be conscious of its responsibility. The Christian People's Party believes it would be to cross a line if the Storting were to take ownership of classified information by adopting degradation, through a special law in this case. Only once before has the Stortinget taken such a dramatic step in connection with the Lund report. However, it was the Commission set up by the Storting itself, and there was agreement with the government that the information could be downgraded. None of the parts is the case in the object protection case. The size can override the safety code by means of a special law, and there is a minority now proposing to do so. Such a special law would be completely contrary to the principle of the Security Act, namely that the issuer of the information is the one to decide on grading. I hear that the representative of Kolberg today introduces a distinction between the publication of the entire report and the publication of the summary. I don't understand that this is a legal distinction. Although these are two documents with quite different degrees of detail, in this case they are both classified by the issuer of the information, and they must therefore, in my opinion, be handled in the same way, in accordance with the rules of the Security Act. The Christian People's Party believes that the Storting should not give itself a legal support to become a case manager of individual documents that the security authorities rate. This is the core of the matter. This is a very important point, in our opinion, and it has both a principle and a practical side by itself. This is about the principle of the distribution of power, and it is about the need to ensure that executive authorities have the opportunity to use the tools that Stortinget has given them – tools that have been given to them to do as good a job as possible to secure society against dangers. Not even the government has given leadership to the graduation issue, out of respect for the safety assessment. That role-sharing should also be respected by the Storting. When it comes to whether the Storting will adopt a special law on downgrading, I have to say that I am genuinely concerned and amazed at the position and argument of the Workers' Party. The fact that the Workers' Party as the State Party it is, and as a party that has ambitions to govern the country, chooses to challenge the principle of power distribution, is alarming. That the Workers' Party seems to take so easily on important aspects of our constitution, we're just going to take note, but I have to say that it's worrying. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we do not share the criticism that this principle should protect the government. On behalf of the Norwegian people, the Stortinget gets access to everything, including the secret parts, and can address that particular criticism with the strength and value one believes it is the basis, without having to go into detail. In addition, in order to be able to penetrate into as many aspects as possible of this important matter, we should, in the view of the Christian People's Party, also carry out a closed hearing. If we introduce a new practice where the Storting takes ownership of secret classified documents, the result can be less transparency, no more transparency. We can get a more closed system that protects itself more. And with horror and horror, we can imagine what the situation would be if a majority of the Storing people were to constantly – or several times – try out minority governments in something that could easily be perceived as part of a political game. The Christian People's Party wants the executive to have confidence that the Storting treats information correctly. Only then can the Storting exercise its important control function. Nor can we sit in a situation where respect for the Security Act is different, depending on whether a government has a majority or a minority behind it in the Storting. In many cases classified information may be harmless in itself, but inserted into a wider context, if it becomes known, it may be a danger to life and health. Therefore, in our opinion, the size should not act as a case handler for testing the professional grounds on which sensitive information is handled. The Government considers that the Riks revision summary still contains information that needs to be protected for safety reasons. We may disagree with the assessment, but at the same time it is important for us to protect the tools we have given to the government – tools that should enable executives to do that part of the job as well. The Security Act and the possibility of keeping sensitive information secret are such a tool. The size has access to all relevant information in order to address this important and serious matter in detail. A wide-ranging consultation has been held. Based on our knowledge of the matter, we believe that the summary of the report should have been upgraded, and the facts that have emerged about the lack of object protection are very serious. This should be followed up by a closed consultation. The Christian People's Party takes the Riksrevision's criticism of the deepest seriousness, but we do not put the provisions of the Security Act out of play. Until then, the principle of power distribution and the work on security and preparedness are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1600	I would first like to say that I agree with the committee chairman's thorough presentation. When I say it so clearly, it is because of the efforts of the representative Tetzschner at a legal lecture, which does not take place, and with strongly demeaning characteristics of the chairman of the committee. This is not jus, it's politics. What's at the heart of the matter is the realities that lie here, and that I'm going to go into. The issue is security and preparedness, so there are military and civil installations, to what extent construction and installations are secured. We're talking here about key industries, we're talking about key power supplies, key energy supplies, key communication facilities, which it's vital to work in every situation to provide people with security. The Riksrevision's conclusion when they've gone through this thoroughly is that there's a lack of object protection, and their characteristic is that it's very serious. So that's the strictest statement that the Riksrevision can make. The National Audit Office has produced two reports. The second revised report of the National Audit Office has also been graduated. The National Audit Service wanted it to be downgraded, but the government has not agreed. When the representative Tetzschner takes in the word ‘syners’ in this case, it is to shoot a lot, very far beyond the goal – yes, I would say that if he had been on the shooting range, he would have been drawn for a record bomb. The government has told the Riksrevision that it wanted a third report, and there it has arisen in particular that the Riksrevision has refused to produce a third report on a recommendation from the government. The Central Party wants the Court of Auditors' revised report to be reviewed by the Parliament in the form of law, as we are discussing today, and as indicated by the proposal made by the minority in the presidential vote. In a democratic society, it is important that there can be an open debate on parliamentary control, and the public has a legitimate interest in knowledge of weaknesses in national security. The national audit has extensive experience in the treatment of classified documents. This is not the first time the Riksrevision is dealing with classified documents. The Court of Auditors has previously come to the Committee on classified documents, we have examined it, and there has been no wish from the Committee in other cases to have the treatment that we are now giving. The National Audit Office considers that neither individual information nor manufacture as a whole are in breach of the provisions of the Security Act. It is quite strong that the Riksrevision comes to such a conclusion, but it is even stronger because the government does not follow this. The centre party has confidence that the Riksrevision has carried out a sound professional assessment when they go for downgrading. As I said, the Riksrevision has described the lack of object protection as very serious – the Riksrevision's strongest criticism. In other words, the public, and not just the representatives of big business, must be given access to the matter. As a member of the Control Committee, I have read the two graduated reports of the National Audit Office, as well as the Minister of Defence and Justice's letter on degradation. I must say that I am totally incomprehensible that the second report of the National Audit Office should remain secret to the Norwegian people, so that we, as deposit representatives, cannot refer to it. We cannot therefore refer to the classified documents in an open meeting, and that is the fact of the matter. In any case, an attempt must be made to formulate the facts of the case in order to get the right conclusion. A majority of the control committee, all except the Right Party, the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party, are in favour of the fact that today the Stortinge degrades the Riksrevision report, because it is an exceptional situation, it is a very important matter, the Riksrevision has a desire to downgrade, and because it is not a factual basis for grading by the Security Act, from our point of view. There is something the Center Party agrees with, and grading is in this case, in our opinion, abuse of the Security Act. After hearing the comments from representatives from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, I understand that the proposal to downgrade the National Audit Office's document on police and defence object protection, adopted at the National Audit Office's meeting on 12 January of this year, as well as the Ministry of Defence's letter to the National Audit Office on 6 January of this year, is being voted down by these parties here today. What will then be the next stage in the Committee's work is to conduct a closed consultation. In this setting, the majority of the presidency indicates that the relevant documents in the case are available to the representatives of the Grand Duchy. I would ask the representatives of Storting to follow up literally. This means that all representatives of the Storting must then go to the Committee of Inquiry's room, ask to read the documents that are there, so that everyone can see the facts of the matter, as the members of the Committee can do. Furthermore, the majority of the Presidency stated that ‘the government has been prepared to provide further information in the case at a closed hearing’. I hope that means that these parties are still in favour of a closed hearing, that is what we are facing – because at least it is now absolutely necessary that we have a closed hearing. The core of the National Audit Office's work is on the defence to discharge its responsibility for the protection and protection of key objects, including the defence to point out the necessary civil key objects and enable Home Protection to secure and protect the key objects. It is at the heart of the matter, and it is a very important matter to have a public debate on it, get a public debate on what is necessary to remedy the situation, so that the National Audit Office's endorsement can be taken seriously and changed, so that we get a completely different level of preparedness and security with regard to these central social institutions and military installations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1625	I will try to spend less time than the speaking time allows, and I will try to get right on the matter. I think we must be able to establish that it is remarkable that the Riksrevision report is to be kept secret. I think the governing parties themselves most likely agree with that. The Riksvisor himself has said what the Christian People’s Party has said, the Central Party has said what the Workers’ Party has said – now I have not heard SV and MDG yet, but I will assume that they will also say it – that we do not fully understand that this summary that we are talking about should be kept secret. I don't know how to express it, whether to say it's fluent, or whether it's embarrassing. I don't know what language you're going to use about what the government is doing, when they choose to keep this secret anyway. In any case, it facilitates an unculture when you want to avoid public criticism and debate. Is that how we want it in Norway? Is that how Norway should be, that we should not be able to discuss openly what concerns us all: our own security – the security of our citizens? Yes, we have a security law, and of course we should respect the law. We have heard the formal review of Michael Tetzschner. But the law – and Michael Tetzschner also agrees – is not meant to be abused or to avoid public criticism, as is done in this case. You shouldn't be able to hide behind the law and push it in front of you when there's really no real reason for a report to be kept secret. In this case, the national auditor himself – who has written the report and has been clear here – believes that there is no safety reason why this summary that we are talking about should be kept secret. So this is the Storting's own control body. They say that there is no reason for the summary to be secret. Nevertheless, Stortinget will deal with this matter – we will deal with this matter – without being able to mention the summary. We're not going to be able to use it openly, we're not going to be able to debate it openly, we're not going to be able to write anything about it in our comments. It's reconstructed and artificial. It appears remarkable and strange, both fluent and embarrassing, and it appears that we are creating an unculture that Norway does not deserve. The size isn't here just tried the trouble, we're jammed. I also find it alarming and will extend it so far as to say that the presidency here – that is, the majority – does not function as the Presidency of the Stortinge but as the longer arm of the government. That's what the majority does. It seems like you've almost gone on autopilot, and that you've only followed the setting from the parties and not made an independent assessment on behalf of the Stortinge on what serves the Stortinge, what serves the Norwegian people, and what serves the transparency. You have to be careful to be taken to be the government's extended arm, you have to make an independent assessment here. There is, after all, all the power in this room it must be, and it would be a pity for the Greatness's reputation if parts of the presidency were to appear as government nodules. I don't know what the proper use of words should be about the next, whether it's paradoxical, or whether it's parodic, maybe someone would say it's political theater, but the Storting should not be able to refer to the Riksrevision report, not mention it, while it's been out of today's business. I think it can reinforce the impression of, or appear even more cramping by the government, that one should still try to keep this secret. The government does indeed believe that it threatens the security of the state that this comes out. Now it has come out, while the presidency has found a principle of pushing this in front of it. They write that the Stortinget «on a principle basis» should not overestimate this. I don't understand why, but it should certainly be a principle here that you should not, on a principle basis, overdo this – the report from the Riksauditionen, which is also our own control body, should be kept secret. All of this is really to avoid criticism, avoid public debate and perhaps also: how would it appear if the government now suddenly changed its mind? Then it might be easier to maintain the original position, even if it's wrong. The main task of a government is to ensure the security of its citizens. The security of the citizens is the main task of the politicians. It has been, it is, and it should continue to be the main task of politicians. We know it failed on July 22nd. The government failed, the Storing failed, the police failed, the society failed, Norway failed, and we can't afford to fail again. Neither the Stortinget, the government, the police, society or Norway can fail again. The Norwegian people deserve better, but the National Auditor states that neither police nor defence will be able to provide the necessary preparedness and security, individually or collectively, if there is an attack. People say it's insane. Politically, I might want to characterize it as completely unacceptable and something we have to clean up. At the same time, we know from the hearing – and it is the National Safety Authority that supervises the reported objects – that the Prime Minister would not answer the question of whether the Ministry of Oil and Energy had reported objects or not, because this was not public and could threaten the security of the State. But you could read about this in the VG, because it had been said that the department itself had made a statement. It reads on 25 October 2016: ‘The eight oil and gas landing facilities in Norway are not secured against terrorism in the same way as the offshore platforms.’ They have not been registered. The defense research institute says that the attack will be over before the police and the defense will be able to respond. So you just haven't reported objects, so it's not possible to monitor them. This would not be answered by the Prime Minister in the hearing, but it could be read in the VG. The left is occupied with openness, and that openness is good, I think everyone here would mean. I think everyone will think that it is exacerbating us that the debate informs and contributes to change. I think most people here, including the government parties, would think that transparency serves the Norwegian people, and that it is through openness that we can create the best policy. But then the government still chooses a culture of closedness, and it's a scary way to go. Me and Left will strongly warn against a culture of indifference and lack of transparency about this. The government must not use the Security Act to defend itself. It is intended to protect sensitive information. And as I said, the National Auditor's report and Per-Christian Foss himself have said that this summary is no reason to keep secret. This is not about protecting information from the public because of the security of the state, but about the government's reputation, protecting the government's reputation, and the government's own security – to put it at the head. Then you hide behind the law, then you abuse the law. That's why the presidency and the Storting should have put the foot down and demolished the report itself. That is not done, and the Left is not in the presidency. Today, I am disappointed, first of all, that safety and preparedness in Norway are not good enough, as the National Auditor has stated, disappointed that the government will keep secret and shackle the debate, and disappointed that our own presidency does not listen to our own supervisory board and the national auditor. Most of all, I am disappointed on behalf of democracy and the people, who will not have a full open debate on this in this House, on what is our most important task: the security of our citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1651	The next time the representative is unsure which words to choose, it will be an advantage to avoid expressions such as ‘not doll’. It's a little out of parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1657	SV agrees with the minority in the presidency on this matter. Previous speakers – not least the representative Nybakk and, after all, the committee leader, Kolberg – have gone through the cases and arguments in a good way, I think. However, let me add or deepen three things that I think are central. The first is that I believe we have to base ourselves on a major and important matter in 2017 that as much openness as possible and a broad public debate is part of the handling of the case, not an additional good. This is true in our time – as far as possible within the security laws and other laws laid down – perhaps the most because public debate and critical journalism are involved in: unknown ratio claim progressed in doing something with it It's even so that it's what could lead to more change than what someone else would have – that it's being publicly illuminated. That's why this is central. So it's that when it comes to security issues, which means it can't be public, it shouldn't be. I have to say, however, that in this case – when it comes to the summary prepared by the National Audit Office in order for it to be publicised – I have good reason to see good arguments from other people than the government itself in order for it to be exceptional to public opinion. I am in no way an expert, but through my work I – I would say – have gained some experience in reading classified documents, for example. from the Government Security Selection. For me, it's almost incomprehensible that that summary must be out of the question of publicity. My first point is that there are generally strong arguments that the document, the summary, should be public. The other thing about this is that it is a follow-up, a follow-up point – not the only one, but one of many – after the Stortinges examination of the report by the Gjørv Commission and the special committee. Through that work, a very high standard of openness was set – an unusually high standard – among others. that extracts from the Government Security Selection were published, which is very unusual and was made due to the special character of the case. In particular, I found it unfortunate that one is now left with the impression – as I read the summary – that the standard of openness is quite low, when one chooses not to downgrade it. It's unfortunate, with the special history things have, and with the high standard that was then seen. However, I must say that I strongly believed that it should be open, and had already smelled that possibility before the hearings. However, it was the implementation of the hearings that overestimated me that it was right, because in the hearing both politicians and officials went in their good answers much further in openness than what was done in the summary. And what I did there is that in a number of cases, one of them made a lot more concrete than what we've been reading, it's clear that we're doing in the summary. For example, one took up a percentage of objects where it had been practiced – the Justice and Defence Department and the Ministry of Defence’s subordinate units, which are the Defence and Police, practiced together. One picked up a percentage of objects planned for today. The criticism of those points is generalized more than in the summary. There are several other examples as well. When it comes to the Letter of Reply from the Ministry of Justice, I would at least say that it can compete with the summary at the level of concreteisation. Then it has been called an argument – among other things. The Prime Minister did so in oral question time, where she went for a while saying that it is easier to be open about what is going well than about what is going bad. Although, of course, it may sound a little paradoxical – and it is a little problematic that it is – it is an understandable argument. But what's very difficult to understand is that it's going to be difficult with openness about what went pretty bad in 2015, but easy with openness about what goes relatively well, but not perfectly, in 2017. After all, the slide is more critical than a picture from a few years back. And it wasn't that the information we got in the committee was that it was perfect. On the contrary, the head of NSM, Nilsen, answered direct questions that we are not in goal, that there are things left. However, the openness of the day picture was greater there. What makes it problematic is that there is once again a picture that the government has used the security laws to avoid the very strong criticism that appears in the summary. If so, it is very, very serious. Actually, in my view, there is only one proper solution to this matter. The best solution would have been for the Prime Minister to have a dialogue with the Minister of Defence to find a solution, and that the Minister of Defence then presented the solution, that is, a downgrading of the summary given by the Riksrevision. In my view, that was the wise solution, the one that a united presidency asked for, and a request from the control committee. When this has not happened – after two requests, first from the presidency, then from a majority in the control committee – I found it justified and correct in this case that the Stortinget uses the possibility one has to adopt a special law that guarantees the openness of such an important document and of the documents that belong to it. That's why SV supports minorities in the presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1698	The Labour Party wants the summary of the National Audit Office's report on the defence and police efforts to secure critical infrastructure in Norway to be upgraded, so that the summary summarising the assessments can be debated openly and honestly, so that lessons about what has not been done, and what needs to be done better, can be discussed openly and take their place in the social debate that it deserves, and so that not only government and departments can learn, but we can all draw lessons from what modern social security requires of us. There has been a broad consensus – and it is worth dwelling on this – on the needs of this transparency and on the need for degradation. It's been the attitude of an overall control committee, it's been the attitude of an overall presidency, and it's been the attitude of those who have carried out the audit and written the summary, an overall college in the National Audit Office, of other people with very wide experience from this house. But there is an attitude that is not shared by the management of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice – perhaps especially the Ministry of Defence, we get the impression of. They have actively and on several occasions opposed the requests, and they have even tried to change the summary in a way that would mitigate or mitigate the criticism – an attempt by the Riksrevision intelligiblely said no. It is a wish that is not shared by the Prime Minister, who passively merely shows that this is not her responsibility, and that the two departments are the owners of their graduation – a prime minister who before the election said that the country needed stronger leadership in the preparedness work, as promised better implementation, and who introduced a so-called emergency element in the Prime Minister's office to ensure better coordination. This is very regrettable. Let me go to the core, also I: although this is a routine evaluation from the Riksrevision of object protection work, we do not get to know that this is about how the country and the authorities learn from what we learn on July 22, 2011. The government then asked for an open and honest review, and we got it, through the Gjørv Commission, that pointed to a number of areas where enhanced efforts were required, among other things. in the case of object protection. This is of the utmost importance, and let's just remember what an object is in this context. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness refers to the «critical functions of society»: water and food supply, electricity, electronic communications and transport systems. Missing object security will be able to hit us all. As a matter of fact, transparency is of the utmost importance. Transparency, often brutal openness, was at the root of the Commission's work. And then we're at the special: at the first crossroads, at the first thorough review of the follow-up, it's at the end of the transparency. Then the curtain goes down. The size has to debate the content, but it has to be done in closed and soundproof spaces. It's hardly for believers. I've read the Gjørv Commission's report. I've read the Riksrevision's summary. And I have to say it this way: if the Gjørv Commission's report could be public, then it is absolutely impossible for me to understand that not this summary can also be so, and that it is kept secret. Now, the open part of the National Audit Office's review is serious enough. It says here that there is a risk that neither the police nor the defence together or individually will be able to exercise adequate protection and protection of essential objects in the event of a threat, and there is a risk that important functions will be out of play as a result of a lack of object security. This is in short what the matter is about after the review in 2015. But the important thing now is that we are standing in 2017 and asking for an open debate on how this could happen, who was responsible, and who took too easy on it. But more importantly, what is the status today? Is object protection better, more prudent? Can the police and the defense, together or separately, do the job we have to expect? In the hearing, there were so many conflicting messages that it is very unclear whether they are better now, and it is unsustainable. I repeat: the open part holds the core of the criticism. We have not asked for any mention or publication of any feature or any other part of the review that should obviously be excluded from public access. It is when the Prime Minister reaches his hands in the weather and says that this is not her responsibility, when she leaves to two departments to say no to the downgrading, that is when the Workers' Party believes that the Storting must take responsibility. The size must take responsibility and ensure that the conclusions of the review of the Storting’s own control body can be made available. It's an unusual procedure, but it's possible, and it doesn't change the principle of power distribution. As stated in today’s suspension, it has been ‘generally assumed that the Storting has the competence to downgrade and publish information protected for public interest’. From the Frøiland Committee, it is quoted that ‘The size has the competence to degrade information and a wide range of judgements to determine what else should be secret in the interests of public interest’. The working party has no tradition of degrading and publishing information that should not be public. Everyone understands that in the area of preparedness for terrorism there is a range of information that cannot be disclosed to the public. I think that in the Labour Party we understand it better than most, having been in positions of responsibility longer than any other political party. This is not about putting out for general viewing secret documents from the government. It's about a general summary of what our own control body, the Riksrevision, has found when they've been reviewing the government's follow-up to the Storting decision. When we go in for the Storting to ensure the downgrading, it's because we take responsibility. The majority, who are moving towards degradation, do not reject the fact that it is possible to do so. They say that ‘The size should only exceptionally take advantage of its ability to degrade classified documents’. I agree with the President and the rest of the majority: only exceptionally. But this is a case that calls for the exception. The majority also writes that ‘exceptions from the principle of not over-estimating government ratings on graduation issues should be reserved for exceptional situations’. [[...]] But this is the ratio. This is an extraordinary situation, so Stortinget has to take responsibility. Stepping in for degradation is not to undermine either the security law or the power-allocation principle. On the contrary, the government's use of the Security Act to refuse the downgrading is a factor in weakening the trust in the law. Let me quote National Auditor Foss, who in clear order disagrees with the fact that the summary is to be kept secret under the authority of the Security Act. He says, ‘I believe that the Security Act was used in a way that was more appropriate to defend the failings of the Department and Defence than to defend what was relevant to the security of the State’. The representative Gruvan talked about the government having to be able to use its tools. I agree. But it is Storting's responsibility to put down the foot when the tool is abused, and the Storting must keep his head cold. I take note that the representative Tetzschner thinks he himself is a concerned middle-aged man. He should use his concern in a different way than he has done here today. So let me repeat: the reference framework for this matter is the July 22 report of the Commission on ‘the resources that did not find each other’. The Labour Party was the target of the terrorist, and we lost our young people. We promised openness, and we fulfilled that point. After the Gjørv-commission's intriguing criticism, we had to recognize a readiness that failed when it was the most applicable. Now it's almost six years ago. Nevertheless, the Riksrevision believes that central preparedness is not in place. Prime Minister, Minister of Justice and Minister of Defence insist on keeping parts of the Riksrevision's criticism secret from the population so that it cannot be discussed in public and informed. It's a setback for the transparency line that came after July 22. It makes it more difficult for people to be sure that what did not meet the 2015 targets is keeping goals today, in 2017. It's serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1745	When you talk a lot, it might not be the ability to listen that is most developed. I referred to the range of middle-aged, worried men. You'll see on the list of speakers before and after me if it breaks with that impression. With regard to the content of the representative, Mr Støre, he argues that the Riksaudition has suddenly become one of our security services under the Security Act to assess grading, and any downgrading or downgrading. If you don't have that system clearly when you speak in the matter, you could easily fall. down to the reasoning that there are former nominees — who are either the head of the Riksrevision or are in the audit committee — their proceedings and discretionary activities that will lead the Stortinget. We don't know that management system. Then we have to clarify, even if it may annoy some, that it is that even if the Riksaudition delivers a report to the Stortinget that has been downgraded, it is not because they are the information issuer in these cases, but because they have based their report on security agencies that are the issuing information officer under the Security Act. Then there are these bodies, not the Riksrevision and not the party groups here, who can decide to override that discretion. If this is to happen, it has to be done by means of a law-enforcement decision in Stortinget. Therefore, it would have been nice if the representative Støre did not bother to quote the pieces of the legal note that have come from the Constitutional Department, but the whole. I expect that this led to parts of his reasoning. We were also asked questions about where we stand today. Then I can refer to Report. St. 10 for 2016–2017, which has been known since December and is probably on Støre’s table when he is home and has been in order after the country meeting. It says these things, not least the follow-up to the July 22 mission given by Stortinget. It is listed there and it is an entire attachment, and it is quite impressive what has happened. These are, in fact, feedback to the Stortinget – even if what has not been completed is completely open – and are of more recent date than the actual audit report that we are discussing the downgrading of. Otherwise, I would like to say that the representative, Mr Støre's contribution, is marked by the fact that he does not follow these matters as closely as his party cases otherwise do in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. I will go over to the chairman of the committee, Kolberg, who opened his speech by saying that we are facing a most dramatic situation, where the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee had asked for the version to which the government was willing to downgrade, and to which the Riksrevision said no. It was just that Kolberg himself, in the VG on February 22nd this year, would not have that report, the one he now wants with great drama because the Christian People's Party also wants it. A joint committee would like to have it because it is the government, that is. Departments have been able to provide downgraded information. It's going to be, if I'm allowed to use that expression, a little bit hollow to stand here and demand, with a little bit of dramatic rhetorical instruments, a report that you refused to see, through the media on February 22. That report exists and is probably also easily accessible. To the representative of Lundtigen, who says that this has nothing to do with law, but with politics: Yes, yes, if you are a member of the country's legislative assembly, you have to find yourself hearing legal arguments and sometimes also references to constitutional rules. Again, the National Audit Office is not the appropriate authority to downgrade what other bodies have made of decisions under the Security Act and the Protection Instructions. I find it alarming that the Central Party and the Workers' Party argue for a system which is simply contrary to the safety law adopted by the Stortinget on 20 March 1998 and the protection directive drawn up in accordance with it. And then it's like the Riksrevisions-- yeah, I'm not going back to that. I just want to thank you for the debate, and especially for the parts of the debate that have dealt with the matter, namely downgrading.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1764	First, just a note. I want it to be said, before the debate is over, that there is reason to note that the Minister for Justice and Security, who is responsible for this, has not found any reason to be present in the Grand Duchy during this debate. It seems that the Minister of Defense has not intended to participate in the debate either – at least it doesn't work that way – but now I see that I can withdraw it, and it's fine if she comes up and says something. I thought that she might think that this was the Storting's debate, and that she wouldn't comment on it. But now she does it, so that it falls into place. It's fine. Then the representative Gahr Støre has presented in an excellent way the Workers' Party's principal position in the matter, and I refer to it, but since several of the representatives, especially the representative Tetzschner – and Countess, a little surprising, I would say – made a strong frontal attack on the Workers' Party and on me, I would also like to comment on the short. No one can doubt that the Storting has the full right to conduct the debate that is taking place here today. As Gahr Støre said: neither does the majority of the Presidency reject it on a principle basis, so the claims of the representatives Tetzschner and Gruvean that this is a violation of the principle of power distribution are based on a completely failed legal and constitutional basis. Nor is it anyone who has ever been able to accuse the Workers' Party of endangering the country's security. I draw the Stortinget's attention to the fact that we have had two secret reports to deal with in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, on our frigates and on this matter. The Labour Party has not taken the initiative to downgrade the documents that would obviously challenge the security situation in the country – have never done so and will not do so in this case either. Then, through the President, I would like to remind the representative Tetzschner that he and I went to the presidency together, in agreement, and asked for degradation. It may be necessary for Tetzschner to think through when he makes such a strong principleal argument and an attack on me and on the Workers' Party. It was such that we thought that a summary was of such a nature that it could ease the pressure, because we did not know exactly how to do it because we put in this secret report that no one is asking for the downgrading of. That's it. It was to create a slight situation for Stortinget's plenary. But now, because we get the decision we're probably given, caused by the majority of the presidency and by the President of the Grand Duchy, it's going to be a secret process. You'll have to take responsibility for that. We don't do that to the others. We're going to do absolutely the best of it, but that this part of the debate, which is so important to the security of the population, does not come to public expression, must be borne by a constitutional practice that I believe is wrong in this case. The presidency should have taken, as I said in my post, the Biggest Party in this case, because it does not challenge the intention and practice of the Security Act. On the contrary, it reinforces the Security Act when Stortinget says that this is the limit on how it can be used. So the Count makes a distinction. He says he does not understand the distinction between not degrading the report that we have a copy of, and the summary. Well, that's obvious. It's because the secret report contains all the information that should not be downgraded and that we've never asked for to be downgraded. That comparison is not relevant, and I just refute it. Finally – so far at least – to this which is said that on a mistake and dramatic basis I refer to what I said at the end of my speech, namely that I will now accept a report I have not previously said that I will accept, as the representative Tetzschner said. No, it is clear: I said I would not accept that report as an alternative to the Riksrevision report that we do not receive because it has been graduated. It should be obvious to all the government representatives that we should not undermine our own national audit authority by accepting that the Ministry of Defence censors the National Audit Office. That is why I said that I would not receive that document, but on the initiative of several of the committee in the previous meeting they asked to get it to see the difference, and that is another issue. But the Ministry of Defence has not found any reason to do it over the course of the week, despite the fact that we asked for it before this debate. It fits into the pattern we have seen in dealing with this matter, completely consistent, namely that it has gone winter and spring. This serious case has now been in Stortinget for five months before it comes to treatment, because of its back and forth and back and forth and back and forth. I do not know whether it is effective parliamentary control – that is of course not. The last one is about what I want to say is a lack of respect for the Storting. That is why I keep my words when I characterise the treatment of this in the way I have now done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1783	I will admit that I was somewhat in doubt as to whether I should be present in the Chamber today. The background to this is, in fact, what the chairman of the Committee had to say in his closing statement, namely that this is basically a matter in which the Stortinget deals with its own framework, procedures and practices for dealing with classified information, i.e. an internal case in which the participation of the Council of State would not normally be natural. At the same time, the underlying issues in the case lie at the heart of the relationship between magnificence and government and involve a desire of the minority to challenge the professional judgements of the administration, in this case a clear safety-related assessment, which the law states is the administration competent to do. Institutionally and towards Stortinget, I am responsible for these assessments, and I have therefore chosen to be present. The National Audit Office's report on police and defence object security for the financial year 2015 is part of the Riksrevision's regular audit of the administration, or, as the representative Gahr Støre said in his introduction, a routine audit. The report points to some weaknesses and shortcomings that it is important to address, and the Ministry has worked on over time. The Ministry of Defence therefore issued a series of instructions to the Defence Department to implement improvement measures before the final audit report was available last autumn, and the Defence Department has provided several status reports since. These show that several of the weaknesses have already been corrected, while others are under good follow-up, and this is done in close and good cooperation between the police and the defence. Both the Minister of Justice and I gave a thorough account of this and of the status today at the open hearing of the Grand Duchy, and I am therefore not going any further into the substance today, but I am coming back to it when Stortinget is going to deal with the position of the Committee. Of course, the government is concerned that the Storting will deal with this matter in a thorough and good manner. It is therefore important that the Storting has adequate information on the issues raised in the Riksrevision report. The Storting has been fully aware of all the Riksrevision's unrated and classified findings, comments and recommendations in the case since October last year. The ministry’s classified responses have been attached to the report, and it has therefore been prepared for a good and thorough examination of the case. From the same time, the public has been familiar with the unupgraded review of the main findings and criticisms, but not details that are safety graded. It has come through the Riksrevisions Master File for the audit of the ministries in 2015 and through the public presentation of the case by the Riksrevision. Unupgraded replies of ministries have also been included as part of the National Audit Office’s public document. I am glad that it is so obvious today that there are no parties on the Stortinget that challenge the grading of the main report itself. The theme for today’s discussion is therefore on a further summary, in addition to the unupgraded review in the Riksrevisions Master File for the revision of the ministries in 2015, to be made public. It is not uncommon for the Stortinget and the Stortinget bodies to deal with security-grade information, and in 1999 the Rules of Procedure of the Stortinget were amended and extended to clarify the rules governing the management of classified information by the Stortinget, cf. Paragraph 75 of the Rules of Procedure. There are therefore procedures for both meetings, hearings and record-keeping so that classified information can be properly processed. I would also like to point out that this has recently been well taken care of by the Storting in dealing with the audits of the operational capability of the Home Office and the operational capability of the frigates. For the latter, an up-to-date summary was also prepared, in close cooperation with the National Audit Office. This consideration is also very well taken into account in the annual rated operational capability assessments provided to the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee. In my correspondence with Stortinget in this case, I have mentioned several times that safety-rated information must be handled in line with the legislation. In our parliamentary system, therefore, it has been arranged for the Storting to be properly informed about and dealt with matters of this nature, and these are the procedures followed by the government. It is very important that the Storting should exercise parliamentary control and that, as a general rule, it should be transparent. In this case, the Stortinget has conducted open consultations, but it is also important that the Stortinget has mechanisms for the closed and confidential treatment of classified information. This is an integral part of representative democracy, where representatives exercise control on behalf of the population also in matters which, by their very nature, cannot be fully published. It's in the interests of both the Biggest and the Government, because it allows thorough processing of this information. It is also important for the government to be able to fulfil its information obligation under the Constitution § 82 to provide necessary and comprehensive information to the Stortinget. The national audit was met by both the justice and defence sectors with full transparency, and they were also given full access to both forces and weaknesses. Since the material elements of the information were collateralised, it was also a prerequisite for its subsequent treatment. The public has been informed of the Riksrevision's criticism, and it should be lacking. This has been done through the unupgraded review of the audit in the Riksrevision Master File and through the public presentation of the case by the Riksrevision. On 20 and 21 March of this year, two open hearings were held in Stortingen, which also provided the public with a good understanding of the matter. Both the government, including the Prime Minister, responsible officials and others were represented in the hearing to answer Storting’s questions. The criticism of the National Audit Office is also duly covered in the media. Since the report was submitted by the National Audit Office last October, the matter has been discussed 600 times in editorial notices, debates and comments. In March of this year, this case constitutes 15 p.m. Of all the mentions of the Defense, and there's a lot. In this context, it may seem strange that the minority’s decisive argument for overcoming the professional assessment and grading is ‘the intention to have a real public debate on key societal issues’. It is therefore well known that the Riksrevision has pointed out weaknesses in certain parts of the object protection preparedness for 2015. This is not a government that can or does not want to put a lid on it. The object security of the police and defence consists in securing important properties, areas, buildings, installations, means of transport and materials against security threats. In its 2017 threat and risk assessments, the police security service, the intelligence service and the national safety authority state that Norway and Norwegian interests are exposed to foreign intelligence activities that may have a high potential for damage. Information on civil and military infrastructure is collected through intelligence activities. In a tense situation or under a threat of terrorism, threats and estimates of important infrastructure can be used to exert pressure and create chaos. I would also like to remind you here, as I did in the hearing, of the quite significant change in the security policy situation in Norway and other countries. I therefore entirely disagree with what Mr Lundtigen says, that involving the question of espionage is ‘to shoot much, much more than a target’. On the contrary, it is at the heart of the assessments and assessment themes of the safety authorities. The intelligence interest in key Norwegian objects also includes getting as precise information as possible about any weaknesses in police and defence work in securing the objects. This applies, for example: information on the existence of weaknesses in work processes, operational capability, information flows, planning, competence measures and security measures. Compromising information that provides transparency in these circumstances could form part of the basis for future espionage and, in the worst cases, also in the planning of sabotage, terror and armed attack. In other words, it is important not to point out the area where potential threat actors can search for information relevant to their desire to harm Norwegian interests. There are threat actors with significant resources, significant competences and ability and willingness to challenge and harm Norwegian interests. The Presidency clearly states in its setting that it is the issuer of the information that has the competence to assess the rating issue. So in this context, it's the Ministry of Defence, not the National Audit Office, or anyone else, who's the issuer of the information. I'm saying it that way, because it's the Riksrevision that gave the reports, but it's based on information issued by the ministry, and there's no doubt that it's the department that's the issuer of the information. That competence also covers the question of downgrading or downgrading. It follows from law and regulation, in addition to internationally recognised principles, and is based on what is a reasonable and natural division of functions between state powers. It is natural that the person who issues the information and who has intelligence, information on how potential threat actors operate, and what information they are seeking, are closest to assessing the potential for damage to the information to be compromised. I also think it would be tempting to ask the special representative, Mr Lundteg, who took it straight up. He says that ‘there is no factual basis for grading under the Safety Act, from our point of view’. I am curious about the professional basis on which the representative Lundtigen builds that assumption. I also note that there is a consensus in the presidency that there must be particularly serious social considerations if the Stortinget is to degrade information by law in contravention of what the competent authority considers advisable. Security-grade information is, of course, vague precisely because of public interests — not increasing potential vulnerabilities in society. In this particular case, the Stortinget has had full access to all information as a basis for carrying out its control task, and the public is familiar with the main findings and criticisms of the Riksrevision's unrated publicity and public presentation of the case, the Storting's open hearings and a wide-ranging debate and discussion of the matter in the media. It is important to bear in mind that the Safety Act speaks of both object safety and information security, protecting information that, if it comes out or compromised, may cause harm. The Ministry of Defence, as the issuer of the information contained in the relevant summary of the National Audit Office, is required under the Security Act to rate information that needs to be protected for security reasons. This is not something we can choose to ignore. The Ministry of Defence has dealt with the grading of the case documents in this case in the same way as other cases and made a thorough professional assessment of the damage potential of the information. The fact that a matter is given attention in the media, as it should and should be given, cannot be a reason to disregard the considerations of information security imposed on us by the Security Act. It is the opinion of the Ministry of Defence that the National Audit Office’s proposal for an additional unrated summary in sum contains information which, if compromised, could in some way lead to harm to the security of the State or other vital national security interests. Therefore, the information has to be graduated. The legal conditions for the security of information are that safety reasons make this necessary. In the assessment of the safety rating, the content of the document as a whole must also be considered. The total amount of information contained in the document in question constitutes a knowledge base of protection under the Security Act, because it relates collectively to the national security and vital national security interests. An attempt has been made to create the impression that the government has graduated the National Audit Office’s proposal for a further graduated summary in order to protect itself from criticism or to avoid criticism. I want to strongly refute this. The government sees the Riksrevision's findings as serious, important and necessary, something that both the Minister of Justice, the Prime Minister and I were ready for in the hearings in March. We want a public debate on security and preparedness, and I believe that we have had it over the period from October to now. At the same time, we must ensure that security and preparedness do not suffer harm by disregarding the provisions of the Security Act on classified information. Norwegian preparedness for terrorism and war is an area where much information needs to be security-graded, and therefore there can be no full transparency in this area. I also feel that there is an understanding in Stortinget, through the posts that have been held here. Criticism is also evident in documents where the level of detail of the security-graded information is smaller. There has been no lack of criticism, despite the fact that some information has been graded for the sake of national security. As far as the Ministry's draft of a possible summary to the National Audit Office is concerned, the Ministry handled it in the same way as when we had a cooperation with the National Audit Office on the Frigate Report, a cooperation that resulted in an unrated summary, with which I think all parties were well pleased. I would also strongly reject the fact that this should be censorship. This was an attempt to provide an additional classified summary but did not contain the security-graded details to be protected under the Security Act. I take note that the Riksrevision did not want to do so. Nevertheless, we have the intention – it is ready for transmission today – to submit this draft summary to the Committee, so that the Committee can read it. However, I would like to stress the main point, namely that the starting point here is a non-degraded summary. Therefore, it may be useful for the Committee’s information to look at a compilation, but it is some of the challenges that may arise from a safety perspective. But it's on its way to the committee. I see it as important that the Storting should deal with this matter in the way that the Storting wants. At the same time, the necessary level of safety must be taken into account. In this case, the government has dealt with the law laid down by the Storting, which states that it is the issuer of the information responsible for ensuring that it is properly rated and processed in line with the requirements of the Security Act. I note, however, that the minority criticises the fact that I comply with the Safety Act in this case, and I can only take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1846	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1851	It is related to the last part of the State Council’s posts — related to the requested note. That address went to the government last week – a week ago. The Council of State and everyone working on this in the Department are probably very aware of the need for us to get that information before this debate. Then my question is simple, but precise: Why has the Storting not been sent this, as the committee unanimously asked?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1856	Without prejudice to the fact that I now do not remember the exact wording of the letter, it did not appear, as I remember, in the letter that the committee asked for it before today's debate. It may be that I remember incorrectly – I take all sorts of reservations about it. We also had behind us the situation that the government and the Ministry of Defence announced through dialogue in the press that we intended to transmit this to the committee. Then the feedback came in cash from the committee manager that we could not send it. We intend to send this over, but we have the experience from previous issues in the committee that when we have provided information on the same day as that, for example. shall be a debate or a hearing, it has also been criticised by the Committee. But again, this is on its way to the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1861	Again: I have explained why I said what I said earlier. It shouldn't be used again, because it was something else. It was that it was going to be an alternative to the Riksaudition report. I rejected that on that basis, so that's already said. The wording of the letter is quite correct: it is sent without delay. It has been completed, but it is not, in spite of the fact that the department is very well informed that this debate, which we have here today, will take place. It is a fundamental debate, and the committee asked for it. So the answer that the Council of State gives is, of course, not an adequate answer. There is an answer that again shows what I said from the pulpit instead: it goes into the sequence as to how long it goes before Stortinget can get this matter to be dealt with effectively. Now it's been five months, and it's been a long time – of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1868	The proposal we submitted to the Riksrevision for an additional unupgraded summary will continue to appear as an alternative to the Riksrevision summary, because it has not been downgraded. We have, as I said, as an intention to send it over now. I do not think that this has been an abnormally long procedure. We have sought to respond to the requests sent by the Committee, either through the Prime Minister or directly to us, as soon as possible throughout this process. We look forward to the further consideration of the matter and, of course, also to the debate we are going to have in Storting on the substance and realities of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1874	I'm going to go into the basics of what the committee leader here asked questions about. From what I understand, this is the summary you've written, that is, the ministry has written. It's been written for a while, so you've just asked for a copy of this. That it will take a week to get this transmitted, seems very incomprehensible, and that one had had this in order to possibly compile it against the summary made by the National Auditor in this debate, would of course be essential for this debate. But since I have not read it, is it difficult to ask a specific question with a background to it, but will the Council of State say what is the significant difference between what the department has written and the summary written by the National Auditor?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1879	Of course, I can't go into the details of it without providing what is classified information, if you also tell something about the difference. But on a general basis, I can say that it has somewhat less detail. Criticism is evident, and weaknesses and shortcomings are evident, but are less detailed. The fact that the summary has been completed for a while is, in so far as an argument that is only partially comprehensive, because, firstly, the Ministry of Defence has previously sought to send over this summary, but has been refused by the chairman of the committee. The second is that precisely because of the leak that has occurred, the ministry had to reconsider whether this could still be an unupgraded document if it was compiled with a currently leaked document, contrary to the Safety Act. That's the responsibility of the security authorities, and ultimately I, as the state council and we as the government, have to protect protective information under the Security Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1884	After the debate that has taken place today and the arguments of the Council of State and representatives of her party, I almost have to ask: does the Council of State believe that National Auditor Per-Kristian Foss is irresponsible, that the National Auditor does not understand the Security Act, and that the National Auditor puts the State's security at risk when the National Auditor states that he believes this can be deflected?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1889	I don't mean that in any way, and I've never said that either. I'm just saying that it's not the National Audit Office that has the competence to assess it, it's the security authorities and departments because it's us who are on the intelligence information, information about threats, actors and others. Neither the Riksrevision nor others do so, and therefore they are not given the authority to degrade. I have not said that the National Auditor is neither irresponsible nor endangers the security of the state nor does he understand the Security Act, but it is therefore not the National Auditor or the National Auditor who has the competence to assess the graduation issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1894	I noticed that the Minister of Defence earlier, in his speech, said that mention in the media – fear of it, or that it happened – could not be a basis for holding back anything for a security assessment. Now I understand that a new security assessment of the summary of the Ministry of Defence has been carried out. Is it true, then, that because of the unfortunate leakage, one fears that a summary could create a security risk? To ask another question, has the Ministry of Defence, on the basis of this, made a new security assessment of the summary that is now ready for transmission?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1899	As I said – in my reply to Kolberg, I think it was – we have made a new assessment, but have come to the conclusion that this summary can be given to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1904	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1909	It was the representative of Kolberg who made a point that we together, at an earlier stage, had gone for more transparency. That's right, because we asked both the National Audit Office and the departments involved to think through whether it was possible to find a common basis for increased publication. But it must not be interpreted as meaning that the right has not always been very clear that when the competent security authority makes the decision, we respect it, even though it would ideally have been nice if the recommendation had reached results. And it did so in part by getting a copy that went a little further in the downgrading, which was offered to the committee chairman on 22 February, and which we could have had if you had said yes to that at the time. There is a lot to let go of in a debate, but since this becomes too protocol, it is important to express it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1916	Let me first say that I believe it was a correct assessment of the Minister of Defence both to be present in the debate and to speak, with the prehistory of the case. I also have nothing to postpone on her presentation of the actual conditions around it – the law or other things. What I think a quite large minority in the Storting is critical of, is the wisdom of assessments that have been made based on it, and I will briefly take up a few points in relation to her posts. The first is that it is quite right that there are established standards — and that is important — for how the Storting can handle classified information in a defenceable way, including the fact that one, in cooperation with the Riksrevision and the Ministry, has found procedures for producing unupgraded summaries. The more difficult it is to understand that it has not been possible to do this. The frigate weapon and the summary there are cited as examples. Both I and others in the committee have read that, and we have noticed that, at least in our best opinion, it goes beyond the unpublished summary in this matter, at least in my opinion. The fact that there are so many things that indicate that this summary without any major problems could have been done publicly makes it hard to understand. The case has definitely had a press review, but when you read the summary to the very short experts in Document 1, you get a much better understanding and understanding of why criticism arises, without going into detailed information. The second point I didn't think the Minister of Defense went into was what I and others have been dealing with, that the Ministry and the Government, in their hearing and in connection with it, have brought significant, concrete information about the situation today, which goes much further in terms of concrete and detailedness than what was in that summary. It is difficult to understand that there should be no more problem than a very general cooperation on things that are a few years back in time, and where the present situation, according to the government itself, is quite different. I find that there is a great deal of understanding of the security laws and of the rather difficult balances of a government, perhaps especially of a defence minister, between openness on one side and the need to protect information on the other. However, precisely because that balance sheet is so important and the assessments are difficult, it is important not to go into the pitfall of holding back information that should be open. What I think the government has come to do in this matter is not to take extra care of the safety laws, but to create more debate and more questions by letting a summary be published that, in the eyes of most people who have been involved in the matter, could tolerate public opinion. I believe the law of security and the balancing had been better at it. In conclusion, let me mention to the representative Tetzschner's reference to the many middle-aged and concerned men who took part in the debate, which I noticed the President did not mention either. On my own behalf, I would like to say that there are both significant age differences among the participants in the debate and that there are enough optimistic people who have been involved in the debate, despite all the reasons for concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1933	I have listened with interest to this debate. I think it is in many ways an important debate, because it touches on some fundamental issues also relating to democratic perspectives. It is a great strength in our democracy and in our system that we have a high level of trust between the actors. In this context, I am thinking about government and big business. It is a great strength that we can have easy communication between, for example. the control committee, the National Audit Office and the departments and members of the government, and that we feel a security in the system that we can handle classified material in a good way. The majority of the Presidency, who have been given some motivations during this debate, I believe that it has largely been the starting point. The size is a sovereign body in our country. We can decide – if not correctly what we want, so at least far on the way – what we want. We can decide to do a downgrading, but in that possibility there is also a great responsibility to deal with such a power. The majority have probably experienced that the minority's proposal challenges some basic rules in this case that are not in the interest of our democracy. It is simply because if you make the question of graduation – or the security of the state, if you want – into a part of the ongoing political debate and the dynamics to be in this house, you will continually challenge the whole problem of graduation, which is linked to our common interest and our common need for something to be actually secret. Because that is really what this debate is all about at the end: is this matter so important that we want to set aside the rules of the game and challenge the trust between the Storing and the government and the apparatus of the government? The majority of the Presidency believes that the answer to that is no. I have listened to the debate and take note that a minority believe that the answer to that is yes, but I may have missed a greater focus on principle issues related to the rules of the game than on the discussion of what we think in this specific matter. I have also read that report from the National Audit Office, and I also find it difficult to understand that it is substantially challenging the security of the state. But I am not afraid to make such an assessment either. It is true, as the committee's chairman initially said, that the presidency wanted to go some rounds on whether it really was necessary for this to be a secret stamp, and we have addressed ourselves to the government to raise that question again. But the interesting thing is not what we think, the interesting thing is: who is it that according to our rules of play has the last word in this case? Who in our system is what in my industry would be called ‘final cut’ – which ultimately has to decide what serves the security of the kingdom in terms of what can be published, and what can’t? The majority of the presidency has therefore considered that for the first time to adopt a downgrading of a document of this kind would put a practice in this house – we are all familiar with the meaning of the kind of decisions – that would put this into play, which would put the question of graduation and the entire sphere of trust it is surrounded by. We believe that this case was not suitable for, or sufficiently extensive and important for. So I would like to stress that – no, the majority of the presidency is not the government's long arms deployed in the Storting. We have a self-reliance to care for the work of Storting, and I believe that we do that at best. With that, I take note of this debate. I think it's been interesting because it highlights aspects of a question that are fundamental to how we're going to work, and how our democracy is going to evolve further, and here there's certainly room for taking experiences from multiple sides.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1946	At first, I want to recognise the Minister of Defence's posts as honest and well-pronounced from her position. I basically agree with a lot of what she is saying now. She emphasises the importance of the seriousness of these matters and the responsibilities that she has for 24 hours to take care of the country’s security – read intelligence – the important areas that need to be taken care of. I don't disagree with any of that. I should also like to commend the President-in-Office of the Council for the tone he puts in this debate. And when I say that, it's to tell the representative Tetzschner that going into this debate and calling those you disagree with, because 'opportunistic' and 'obstructive', poorly up-to-date and almost in the rear of your own country meeting, is not worth this room in this matter that many have worked hard with. This I would start by saying, because it's an important matter to discuss. So to the question and to the president's good, factual tone, he says, we can adopt a degradation. It's not to destroy the relationship between the state powers or set things straight, but it's serious, and I agree with that. But I don't know if I agree with the president, who at the same time says that doing it is putting the rules aside. I think it is argued that it is within the rules of the game to do so when required. So I agree that there will be an assessment – is the matter serious enough, and is it important enough to do this? So here we have differences of opinion. I would like to say to the Labour Party that I strongly condemn the person or people who are behind the leak that this document, which is a security grade, is leaked. It's a little difficult to debate this when the whole public has read it and we can't refer to it. It's a fact at least that it is. Then respect for the Security Act comes into play. Because I'm concerned that we're going to be able to see people in their eyes saying that there's a reason we're keeping a secret: trust us – we've made an assessment, this is so serious that it has to be a secret. I think it's worth it for the government and the majority in this room to think that when the fasitite is out and you say it's so serious for the security of the state that we can't discuss it openly, some might ask questions about what kind of assessments you're doing otherwise. Because it is difficult to see with open eyes that it should be so serious. A great deal is to be kept secret, it is necessary, and I believe the legitimacy for testing this decision. It is then well that it goes against this somewhat strange procedure that we get a closed consultation on this matter. I think that's necessary for us to really drain it. I would like to thank the vast majority of the co-representatives for a good and interesting debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1967	There has been a good debate, but there has been no good solution to this. That's the solution we're essentially looking for, and it's that the Storting can deal with this very serious matter in full transparency and full breadth. Having said that, I would like to thank the representative, Olemic Thommess, who is also President of Stortinge, for a more detailed explanation in his last speech. I understand some of the arguments that have been put forward about why, on the part of the majority of the presidency, you do not want to downgrade this. It may be a good argument that it can create precedent, but there's no automatic in that if you do something once, it will also have to be done the next time. I don't feel that argument in itself is good enough. I can still understand what the President has said. I notice – if you can base it on it – that there is no one in the Presidency of the Grand Duchy who believes that the summary of the report should be kept secret. You may not be able to assess this in a very specific way, but you have a lot of experience. I have not met anyone at Stortinget who has read this summary and said that they understand that it must be kept secret. Several of them have government experience, several have been in government, the national auditor himself has been in various positions, etc. None of these, who have quite a lot of experience, have thought – in their own way, together and in the batch machines, and there are large batches with large appliances – that there is some reason to keep this summary secret. That's why it seems so cramping, so strenuous, and so difficult to accept from the government – or perhaps primarily the Ministry of Defence. I'm not going to interpret the Prime Minister so far, but the Prime Minister said something like it would be better or easier for the government if this were open. It seems completely incomprehensible, when an almost total magnificence and presidency thinks that there is really no reason to keep this summary secret, that the Ministry of Defence and the Minister of Defence still choose to keep it secret. It's completely incomprehensible. This also deprives us of the opportunity to have the full and open debate and to deal with this matter. As I said, the security of our citizens is our main task number one. In the reality that Norway and Europe are now in, this issue is not going to be any less. There is every reason to believe that citizens' security will be put to the fore year after year in the time to come, with increased radicalisation, increased tensions, right-wing extremism, etc. – and also from foreign powers. You can read not only this report, but also reports from the Defence Research Institute. They said last October that there will be an attack on Norway, Norway will not be able to react until the attack is over. We just can't live with that. It is totally unacceptable that we should be in such a state of emergency and security — that if there is an attack on Norway, either from a foreign power or from organised terrorists or solo terrorists, the attack will be over before the security authorities will be able to respond. We can't be in that situation. This report will help us to have a full and open debate. Instead of getting the full and open debate, this should be closed down. Now it's going to the closed hearing. I can only say from the pulpit that I will support it, we cannot live with a situation where Norway does not have operational preparedness. We completely failed on July 22nd. When we, each in our own way, meet policemen, we hear – it also comes out in public – many people say that nothing has improved since July 22. When the police and the defense can neither individually nor collectively provide the defence and the preparedness we need if the truth is to be out first, it is not to live with the Storting. Then we must have the debate in full. If we do not get the debate in full scope here, because the summary is kept secret, we must first have a closed hearing. I will repeat the call that came from Bård Vegar Solhjell to let the Minister of Defense do the only thing wise on this matter, and that is to go in itself, go back to the department and turn the stones that it is possible to turn around. It's a good mountain-wet rule that says it's possible to turn in time. You can turn around and say that you have heard the debate. There's one so to say total magnification in this question, I take a little reservation here, but I've heard what Grand President Olemic Thommes has now said. Then the Minister of Defense can go back and say, "We're taking this to ourselves, and now we're choosing to downgrade this." But it remains to be seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1986	I don't need to extend the debate, but I felt that the representative Raja's posts had to be answered briefly. But before that, I would like to thank both the representative Gahr Støre and the representative Solhjell, who, in my opinion, has shown a considerable understanding of the dilemmas faced when dealing with that kind of classified information. It is neither the number of wholesalers nor others who wish to publish, nor the course of a debate in the Stortingen that determines whether the information is eligible for protection. On the contrary, there is an image of potential threat actors, what information they are looking for, and how they can compile information in a way that helps to increase vulnerability, which does. That is the consideration I have to take as the responsible State Council. The reason why I have to take the total responsibility is simply that I am sitting on the information that makes us believe that this is classified information. As the representative Raja quite rightly says, there is a question that is probably not going to be smaller in the future. We're going to see potential threat actors, whether in the form of radicalised youth, foreign actors or state actors, who, both civil and military, have a desire to harm Norwegian interests. The representative, Raja, is quite right about that. At the same time, there is also the reason why some information needs to be classified — not to expose potential vulnerabilities in a way that undermines safety. It is precisely because neither I nor the government take this lightly – rather on the contrary – that we also have to make many of the heavy assessments relating to what can be public, and what must be graded. I'm not going to go into the substance of this. We will have ample opportunity for that at a later stage. The Minister of Justice, the Prime Minister and I have also spoken about this in the open hearings and at the same time put us at the disposal of a closed hearing if the committee so wishes. In this context, I would like to say – as I also explained in the hearings – that I do not fully share the description given by the representative Raja of the security state. I've also explained why. At the same time, I believe it is important to bear in mind that it is precisely the responsibility of the safety authorities, the government and the responsible state councils to manage and manage the classified information that makes it natural that there is a government council that has to take responsibility if something should happen, for example. as a result of the unlawful exposure of security graded information. I think it's important to be aware of that responsibility, because it's serious, and it's enshrined in the Security Act, both in terms of information security, and in terms of object security. Nor should we be in a situation where we do not take information security seriously, so that we can put object safety at greater risk. This has a close inner context. There are many dilemmas, and I think it is positive that the representatives Gahr Støre and Solhjell in their final posts so clearly indicated that these dilemmas are also clearly seen from the Stortinget side.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e1999	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2015	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2024	This issue concerns a topic that most people are familiar with during many years of debate in the public sector and in the United Kingdom. In the last year, the debate on the impact assessment of areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestralen and Senja has again been on the agenda. Because of this, the positions of the different batches are already known. The issue we are discussing today is a proposal from the Left, and there is one proposal on the matter. The government is asked to propose permanent protection against petroleum activity in the sea areas outside the Lofoten, the West Sea and the Senja, including the whole of Northland VI, Northland VII and Troms II. This proposal does not get a majority in the Chamber today, but although opinions are shared on the need for an impact assessment of precisely these marine areas among the members of the Committee, it is a large majority of members who support some important principles for the management of our common petroleum resources. I'm glad. The majority of the Committee points to strict health, environmental and safety requirements for all petroleum activities and that this is one of the main carriers of Norwegian petroleum policy. At the same time, the main policy objective is to facilitate profitable oil and gas production in the long term. Oil and gas industries are still Norway’s most important industry, despite the fact that the last few years have been tough due to low oil prices and that we are in the process of making a green shift. It's going to be most important for years to come. The majority of the Committee considers that good framework conditions, including access to new areas of Norwegian soil, are essential for the ability of the oil and gas industry to maintain its value creation, secure existing and create new jobs in the future. There is broad support in the Stortinget for continued activity on Norwegian pedestal, also in new areas. As I said at the outset, there are shared opinions in Norwegian policy on activities in the sea areas outside the Lofoten, the Vesterålen and Senja. These are valuable areas for Norway, both nature and environment, fish and petroleum resources. Whether for impact assessment or for lasting protection, there is no doubt that there is a common political objective that all exploitation of natural resources in Norway should be carried out in a sustainable and safe manner. The main difference in this case is whether or not one already knows enough to say no to petroleum activity in these specific areas. It is through the Petroleum Act and including impact assessment and opening processes that new areas of activity on Norwegian base are opened and regulated. When carrying out an impact assessment, there is a good basis for decision-making on how to proceed with an opening process. At the same time, there is an open and democratic process that ensures that all interests are heard. No impact assessment has been carried out for the marine areas mentioned in this proposal, with the exception of parts of Northern Ireland VI. Therefore, as the majority of the Committee sees, at present there is not a sufficient basis for decision on petroleum activities in these areas or for permanent protection. The primary position of the right in this case is clear. We want a full impact assessment of both Nordland VI, Nordland VII and Troms II. Only in this way will we be able to gain sufficient knowledge of both the opportunities and the challenges that lie in these areas. Potentially, there are very large values for Norway, not only financially but also through jobs and value creation. The right does not have the tradition of saying no to knowledge, and neither do we want to do that with the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja. A yes to impact assessment is not an automatic yes to opening, but it will provide valuable knowledge that can form the basis for a good decision. In my view, an impact assessment is also important because we have a common responsibility to manage our petroleum resources in a good way, not only for us, but also for future generations. At the same time, during this great period, we have had an agreement with our cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, not to carry out an impact study in the current period of mass destruction, and I respect that. But I also choose to see this representative proposal in the context that we are now on our way into an election campaign, and then I feel it right to give to know the Right's primary view on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2045	I guess there is no bomb when I say that the Workers' Party is behind the setting, and you can agree with a lot of what the case-rapporteur, Tina Bru, said here. I want to focus a little on the fact that what has been the history of Norwegian oil policy is that we have gone a step forward. Eventually, we got the system of impact assessments to assess the impact of petroleum activities in new areas. In this way, we could balance the considerations between petroleum activities and other industries, and in particular fisheries. The legislation has also imposed stringent environmental and safety requirements, and petroleum activities in vulnerable areas have just been avoided by providing knowledge of the areas, knowledge of what can be done to protect the values we want to protect, and how to operate without harming the environment, fisheries, etc. It is precisely the assessment and the knowledge that must and should be taken into account when we are going to make a decision whether to open an area. We want to initially have a high value creation and high activity on a Norwegian base. It gives jobs, and it gives income to the Norwegian community. However, the Workers' Party does not want the petroleum industry to be harmful to fisheries, the environment and vulnerable areas. That is why we want impact assessments, and we want a new impact assessment, as we recently said at our national meeting, of Nordland VI. This is initially partially opened, but the impact assessment underlying that opening is more than 20 years old, and we need a new review of the possibilities and constraints in order to determine whether to open up new activity in this area, and – in case – what conditions and what area limitations, time constraints, etc. which is necessary to protect the resources and values that we want to protect in the area. We also understand that there is concern in the population about these issues. So we're saying that in this round we want an impact assessment of Northland VI. We also want to say that in a zone of 50 km from Lofotodden and West Fjord there is no petroleum activity. We also say that a process of impact assessment should not be urgent. This should be a thorough, democratic process. If there is an Labour Party government running this race, and we hope that it will, this matter will be raised at the national meeting of the Workers' Party before it becomes a matter of submitting a proposal to the Stortinget. In this way, we want an informed debate on the effects of petroleum activities in these areas. It has not been stated that the Workers' Party will be in favour of petroleum activities in the area, but we are in favour of an impact assessment of activities in this area. The knowledge gathered in 2011 and 2012 shows that there are no risk conditions in this area that are not manageable in the same way that we have managed the risk on other parts of Norwegian pedestal, either through area limitations, i.e. that there should be no petroleum activity here, or through time limitations, limiting the time for drilling, etc. As regards fisheries and seismics, the rules are quite clear. Fishing goes ahead of seismics, it does in general on Norwegian pedestals, and these areas are no exception to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2058	I can only fully agree to what the rapporteur said in his statement, and which has been essentially the policy of the Progress Party, the Right and the Labour Party in recent years. It's actually been a pretty big agreement. The strict health, environmental and safety requirements for all petroleum activities in Norway have been a strong message. Petroleum policy is one of the most important pillars of society, and facilitating profitable oil and gas production in the long term. In this proposal there are known positions. The new thing that has happened, and on which it is worth spending some time, is the Workers' Party's third solution to the national meeting to coordinate parts of the Lofoten, the West and Senja. As the representative Per Rune Henriksen had in mind, the compromise solution suggests that a 50 km track from Lofoten land should be a petroleum-free zone. It actually violates a well-established principle in Norwegian oil policy that entire areas should be surveyed before decisions are made. It is not without reason that this principle has been applied, in order to identify the resources that may be there before decisions are made. The results of the new and defensive policies of the Workers' Party in this area are that there will be considerable future losses for the Community. Future incomes could be lost. It could affect future well-being. There may be fewer jobs in the oil industry, and valuable skills may be lost. That is what the Workers' Party has put into the pot – not in this matter, but in the new oil policy that is coming. There is also a poor resource management The Labour Party has taken its decision at the national meeting of one of Norway’s main industries, and the industry that contributes most to filling up the money and ensuring the well-being we have in Norway. The point of view of the Progress Party is, of course, that the entire sea area outside the Lofoten, the Vesteral and Senja are to be assessed in a consistent manner. It is based on knowledge that decisions are made and the areas that are identified. But I notice that the Workers' Party is coming up with a new defensive policy in this area. I think that's sad, and I guess it'll be a theme in the coming months in the election campaign for those who'll be on the front line. I guess there's going to be a discussion after the election too, but then I'm not going to attend.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2069	Resistance to petroleum activity in areas outside the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja has created a great public commitment and it is not difficult to understand. These are the spawning grounds for our main fish stocks. These are, and have always been, of great importance for food production and employment in Norway. The fish are important for Norway through jobs, export incomes and not least as food for very many. Today, we have historically high populations and achieve high prices in the market. Norwegian fish exports are high in both volume and value. We exported white fish for 13.8 billion. kr in 2016. It's a record and an increase of 6 pst. Volume increased by 7 pst. This is important value creation that we cannot risk, and which is important to give Norway more legs to stand on. This is important that we take care of. The Christian People's Party believes that there is too much risk of opening up petroleum activities in these areas. These are vulnerable areas where the consequences of an accident will be extra large. For example, Nordland VI has one of the richest cod populations and is an important spawning area for cod, herring and a number of other fish species. We've been fishing in these areas for centuries and we're going to do it forever. The fish must then be given priority over oil, and we must protect these areas. The oil age won't last forever, but we can have fish resources forever if we manage them properly. Then we have to establish a precautionary principle and say that the fish should take precedence in these areas. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposal for the permanent protection of the Lofoten, the Vestreålen and Senja. I take this up with me the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2082	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2087	The case rapporteur basically gave a fairly good overview of the different positions on this issue that have been in force in the Stortinget, and in so far as government cooperation over many years, which means that both the current period and the previous period were not relevant to open up the Lofoten and the Vesterål to neither impact assessment nor activity. Norwegian oil companies have basically had the framework conditions and opportunities they need in a wide range of areas. During the last government period, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV opened up to exploration and activity in the Barents' Sea south-east, and there were great opportunities for the industry to develop its activities and also to look for new land. There is an opportunity that the industry has used, and I see that Statoil is now going to resume searching in the Barents Sea after two years of pause, and that is a positive signal in that way. In the case of Lofoten, Vesterålen and Senja, some of the conflicts between oil activities and fisheries — two of Norway’s main industries — and also between oil activities and vulnerability in a place where the pyre is very narrow and where there is also a spawning area for the world’s last large stock of cod. Therefore, the Centre Party is not set to open up any impact investigation, activity or activity outside the Lofoten and the West Bank. I see that there are many arguments about impact assessment. It has always been like this in Norwegian petroleum policy to open up for impact assessment, and actually opens up for activity in retrospect. And I don't think we should imagine that anything else is the case if you choose to open the impact investigation outside the Lofoten and the West Pole. I believe that no matter what government would have to sit in the offices after the 2017 big shot, this issue will be a very important discussion between the parties. The centre party cannot take part in the proposal from the Christian People's Party, the Left, the SV and the Green Party today, and that is because it is a proposal for permanent protection. The centre party does not have coverage in its program to say that we are in favour of permanent protection, but the centre party has decided in its program that we do not want any impact investigation or activity outside the Lofoten and the West Pole for the next four years, i.e. in the time horizon for which the program is valid, and that is a question for which we are to work, whether we are in opposition or in position for the next majority period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2100	The impact assessment or petroleum activity in areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestreålen and Senja has not been open for long periods of time and size. In the Left, we are pleased that during this period we have a cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the government parties that put an end to all activity, including an impact assessment of the areas outside the Lofoten, the West and Senja. But then we presented this proposal – really with the expectation that at least there might be developments in different parties during the programming processes and national meetings that we have had in our past. Now it turns out that in this case there is no change in the positions of the parties. There is still a large majority who want an impact assessment, and – as the representative Arnstad said – according to petroleum legislation is an impact assessment in reality the first step towards opening up and activity. A majority still believe that this is right in the last area of a robust stock of cod internationally – it is the last robust stock of cod that we have left. It is in an area where fishing resources have been the basis for settlement through hundreds, if not thousands, of years, and which, of course, must also provide the basis for the economic development we need in the years to come. It is true that the production of petroleum products poses a safety risk. It can happen accidentally when you have an activity. A release into this area will have significant negative consequences, whether for seabirds and sea mammals or for fish eggs or larvae. There are really unique natural areas that we're dealing with. During this ageing period, we have also had changes internationally. We've got a Paris agreement, where we're not just going to aim to avoid global warming beyond 2 degrees, but we're going to reach 1.5 degrees. In a situation where we know that there are large oil resources that need to be left in the ground, there really is no need to go into the most vulnerable areas and start developing there. There is also no call about this in the population. There is great support both nationally and locally for not having petroleum activities outside the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja. To the Workers' Party's decision at their national meeting: there is no change. It is presented as a compromise, but in reality it is an opening. And there's an opening into Northland VI, which is perhaps the most vulnerable area, where the consequences will be greater if there's an accident. It's also important to look at why we're going to do this. In Northernland, with the Lofoten and the West Pole, it's really going very well. Nordic countries expect an export increase — based on what has been in the past — of 4.3 pst. this year. In particular, seafood products are the starting point for this growth. There is also a positive development in the Lofoten and the West Sea – also a positive development of the population. Unfortunately, there are no changes in the position of the parties in this case. Avoiding petroleum activity outside the Lofoten, the West Pole and the Senja will for the Left – and I expect it from other parties who believe this – have to be at the top of the block also in the autumn elections. It will be as hard a fight now as it has been in the past, to maintain the situation that we have – that there will be no opening for either impact assessment or petroleum activity during the pouring period that comes, that we can establish that this discussion will finally be decided, and that we will have permanent protection of the areas outside the Lofoten, the West Sea and the Senja against petroleum activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2119	If you have a heart, you realize that drilling in the middle of the largest surviving cod tribe's feeding room is out of the question for people and fish. If you have a heart, you realize that risking oil spills in the middle of myriads of mythical birds is totally unacceptable. It's enough to say that a seabird like the lomvien is 98 pst. down since the 1980s. We can't take any more risk for our bird now. If you have a heart, you realize that gambling on a short-term oil adventure instead of the long-term and potentially eternal fishing resources and travel life resources in Lofoten is not something you should do. If you have a heart, you realize that going across what is the will of the people in Norway, in Northern Ireland and in the areas where oil extraction is relevant because the oil industry in its persuasion has promised gold and green forests to bring people, but let it go with gold to itself, as we see in Hammerfest when you cut out and it's not likely that the landing of oil that creates values locally, actually comes there, is not a nourishment for the future. And if you have a heart and look around at climate change and how they hit people all over the world – Jonas Gahr Støre said that we are the first generation to notice the climate change on the body, and the last generation that has the opportunity to do something about it – you realize that it must mean that we who have already served ourselves rich in stones on the oil cannot be the ones who chase after extracting the last oil. Then the question to be raised is: if the oil industry's border does not go at Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja, where will it go? If you don't have a heart, but a brain, you think that investing in large-scale development, extraction and start-up of oil business 10–15 years ahead is risky in a world where the prices of renewable energy breeds, where the possibility of the rapid phase-in of the electric car – the transport sector is, after all, the most important consumer of oil, and where it is most difficult to find other fossil products may not be so clever anyway. If you have a brain and not a heart, you listen to the Green Competitiveness Committee, Erna Solberg and the government's appointed selection, which said very clearly that it is time to look at the petroleum tax as it is today, because it poses a great risk to the state in the initial phase of oil extraction, a risk that is perhaps quite high to take for a country so deeply invested in oil, and as gamblers with our own ambitions in the Paris Agreement. My conclusion is at least very simple: on the SV side, we support the proposal put forward by the Left, but we note that it does not get a majority, among other things. because the Workers' Party has concluded what they call an oil compromise. Let me stay with it in the last minute. To call something a compromise when you go in to drill in all the areas where there is oil, and leave it to drill in all the areas where there is probably no oil, is not a compromise. It smells like Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen and Norwegian oil and gas. If I had come home to my wife and said, "We'll make an agreement that you pick up in the kindergarten every week and I'll pick up in the kindergarten every weekend -- I think I've all realized that it was a pretty bad deal. It was not a compromise, it was simply a bad deal. I think that's stupid, but on SV's side we support the proposal, give homage to the proposer and make it very clear at the entrance to the election campaign that we never fail the Lofoten, the Vesterålen and Senja. I can add the mortar block, Skagerrak, Jan Mayen, the ice edge and the polar front as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2130	Thank you to the Left for a good proposal which the Greens have supported and, of course, supported. At the same time, of course, I am told that we must once again debate the issue of oil activities outside of Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja. The current Minister of Oil, Olav Akselsen of the Workers' Party, listened to environmental arguments in 2001 and closed Northland VI, south-west of Lofoten, for oil exploration. Nevertheless, the Right Party, the Labour Party and the Advance Party throughout the period after having kept the pressure alive to carry out the exceptionally bad idea of drilling for oil in the areas outside the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja. This is a bad idea environmentally, and it is exceptionally thoroughly professionally documented. It is also an increasingly bad idea in the field of nutrition policy. What we've experienced in these years of pressure against Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja is a derailment and a delay of what this part of the country actually needs: investing in the truly sustainable and long-term business opportunities, which are already the most important thing in the country. It is the living resources in the sea and on land, the advanced knowledge that exists both in the continent and beyond, and the innovation that can come from focusing on these industries – from resource raising to travel life in the world’s most beautiful nature. Unfortunately, in its very important and respectable struggle for the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja, the Left and Christian People's Party, in its government projects, has had to use almost all its political capital to defend these areas, while exploration and extraction permits have been mass-produced in other sea areas. The debate on the Lofoten, the Vesterålen and Senja has acted as a huge diversion to the other Norwegian sea areas. The oil industry has got the fattest patch of the times on the wound in the form of lots of allowables in the 21st, 22nd and 23rd concession rounds. This is because they are not allowed to drill in the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja, and they will not be allowed to do so in the next big period. That's why it's important that we start to see longer. In the next case, we will discuss the Greens' proposals on what we can really focus on in Norwegian oil policy in the future, namely to stop further oil exploration and start planning a phase-out of Norwegian oil and gas activities by 2040. It will also take care of the Lofoten, the Vesterålen and Senja in a more lasting way. If the bulk of the population persists in protecting individual areas, but at the same time produces billions of tonnes of CO 2 through Norwegian oil production, climate change is more and more likely to frustrate everything we can protect in Norwegian sea areas. The pressure against Lofoten, Vesterålen and Senja shows little respect for the management plan system of the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea of which Norway is otherwise so proud. One of the most important things the system does is to rank natural values on a professional basis, and the areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja ports at the remote global top of nature value and vulnerability. That is the natural reason why these areas should not be opened up to oil companies. Fortunately, petroleum activities in these areas are increasingly sought. The majority of the population want protection. The majority of the local population want protection. All the municipalities in Lofoten are against impact assessment. The tourism industry and the fishing industry, which are really the major industries in the area, want protection. And the environmental recommendations are clear. In practice, this means that the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Workers' Party represent an increasingly smaller proportion of both business interests, population and local democracy, and that should be taken over. Finally, to the best friends of the oil industry – an oil industry that cannot bear to leave as extraordinarily valuable areas as the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja alone: it is an industry that really brings a harsh judgment upon itself. The business of the future is green. It does not consist of taking holes in the last and largest natural values in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2155	The main objective of Norwegian petroleum policy is to facilitate the profitable production of oil and gas in a long-term perspective. The role of a petroleum producer shall be combined with leadership also on environmental and climate issues. We've been both good and lucky in Norway. We have had a broad political majority that has supported petroleum policy for decades and ensured responsible management of our natural resources. It has served us well, today we have an oil and gas industry that is Norway's second largest and most important. Activities provide profitable jobs throughout the country. It has contributed to both industrial development, technology development, societal development and funding for our welfare development. The petroleum activities we have on Norwegian soil are carried out under strict health, environmental and safety requirements and the preservation of the external environment. No petroleum activity on the Norwegian base is carried out unless it can be carried out in a proper manner. Consent by authority and authority is required for all activities including search drilling, expansion, operational phase and closure phase. Co-existence with other users of the sea has always been a major concern. In areas with particularly vulnerable or valuable environmental values, additional strict business-related conditions may be imposed, e.g.: time limits in the case of seismic surveys and exploration in oil-bearing layers. The purpose of this type of condition is to limit the potential for environmental damage and to ensure co-existence with other sea-based industries. Let there be no doubt that the government is also concerned with safeguarding the fishing interests of the sea areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja. In Norwegian resource management, sustainable use of marine resources is central. All Norwegian experience suggests that it is fully possible both to have a responsible resource activity and to provide important environmental and nature considerations. These experiences are a knowledge-based management tradition that we have every reason to be proud of. We have succeeded in building up several world-leading marine industries based on this knowledge-based management approach. There is a broad majority, including a broad majority in the vote on today's case, which joins in the continuation of this management tradition. The areas mentioned in this case, outside the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja, are, as has been said, essentially not open to petroleum activities, with the exception of parts of Northern Ireland VI. Nor will new areas be opened for petroleum activities on Norwegian soil until an opening process under the Petroleum Act has been carried out. Such an opening process ensures both a sound decision-making basis and a broad involvement of all interested and interested parties. What is currently available from knowledge related to the areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja areas is quite extensive, but in some cases not sufficient to implement the possible opening of these areas. Therefore, from a resource management point of view and the administrative tradition we have had, it is important to carry out a full impact assessment of the area before making any considerations as to whether to open the area or not, and whether to set specific requirements for any petroleum activity in these areas. There is an equivalent process running on any area of the cap to be assessed for a possible petroleum activity through an opening process. I would strongly warn against adopting such a proposal as the representatives initially propose in this proposal for a representative, and as a minority in the vote. We need to continue the rooted Norwegian administrative tradition of making decisions based on facts and knowledge. Something else would not be proper.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2172	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2177	The need to open up oil activities in areas outside the Lofoten, the West Sea and Senja has been justified by the strong oil industry’s need for new available resources. Today we just got information that the Oil Directorate, it was well, estimates the resources in the Barents Sea to be twice as large as previous estimates suggest. Would the Minister for Oil and Energy agree that such an optimistic resource allocation for the Barents Sea makes it less necessary to continue the pressure against our most important natural areas outside the Lofoten, the West and Senja?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2184	It is quite right that some of the reasons for opening up some of the areas outside the Lofoten, the West Pole and the Senja for petroleum activity have been the need for new, larger resources that can be exploited and expanded. In the years to come, we now have the expansion of Johan Sverdrup Phases 1 and 2, Snorre Extension and Johan Castberg in the Barents Sea, all major expansions. But after Johan Castberg in the Barents Sea, there are no new, large, independent extensions that can contribute to activities related to, among others. the supplier industry. I have to draw the attention of the representative to the fact that the new resource allocations for the Barents Sea concern the North Barents Sea, outside the area already open to petroleum activity in the Barents Sea. So if the representative Rasmus Hansson can be on the open Barents Sea right now, we can probably come back to also discuss the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2191	Governments called for knowledge. We have a lot of knowledge about the natural quality outside of Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja, whether it's the last robust area for cod or all the other natural values that are there. It is one of the most important areas in the world and is comparable to the Great Barrier Heritage or Amazon. Given that those natural qualities are not enough for the Council of State to actually ensure that there is no petroleum activity there: is there any area having the natural qualities so important that the Council of State is not willing to open up petroleum activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2196	In my article, I stressed that we should continue the administrative tradition that we have had in relation to petroleum activity on a Norwegian base. It involves first acquiring knowledge through impact assessment and then weighing the open areas, the open areas, the open areas and, where appropriate, the specific restrictions to be imposed. These processes require decisions on the protection or use of petroleum activities. That is why I am concerned that we are going to carry out a full impact assessment of the areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestralen and Senja. Then you will get all the facts on the table and the opportunity to balance the different interests. I must stress that in the case of fisheries – I am myself a fisherman and still registered – investigations have been carried out, among other things. the last Akvaplan-Niva symbiosis report, which also included the Institute of Marine Research, which shows that it is fully possible to have activities in this area. In a possible worst case accident, there will be no significant impact on the Norwegian cod population, which we all want to preserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2203	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2221	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2230	Since its inception, Norwegian oil policy has been based on belonging to the Community, on the basis of which Norwegian industry and industrial development must be based, on the extraction with the highest safety standards, on the minimisation of damage to the environment and on the production of low greenhouse gas emissions. This is a successful policy that has led to what is now a reality: nearly 200 000 jobs throughout the country nearly 8 000 billion kr on book for future generations We produce low emissions, both to the air and to the sea, and we have a high level of safety in Norwegian oil and gas production. There is a broad consensus in Stortinget that we are still to ensure high value creation from Norwegian base. In Report. For 2010–2011, four strategies were identified to achieve this. It was that: we shall bet on increased field extraction that is in production; We're going to put findings in production. we shall continue the search: We're going to open new areas. It is of great importance that we have a broad majority and predictability in this policy. Activities require enormous investment, and investors need to have a long-term perspective. The proposals promoted in the proposal for a representative assume that it is good climate policy to phase out Norwegian oil production and that phasing out oil and gas production will also be economically sensible. Halting global warming and eradicating poverty are the greatest challenges of our time. These are global challenges that need to be addressed through global action and international cooperation. Fossil energy use is the driver of global warming, but fossil energy will be an important part of the global energy mix in the foreseeable future. In addition, oil and gas will be an important component of industrial products. In my view, the way forward for reducing greenhouse gas emissions is about energy efficiency improvement, the transition from fossil to renewable energy use and carbon capture and storage. The proposals that are being promoted here will not work well. The phasing out of Norwegian oil production will not result in lower production or lower consumption of oil on a global basis. We know that. There is more than enough production capacity globally to cover the loss of Norwegian oil production. Remember, when Libya lost all its production capacity through the Civil War, 1,6 million barrels a day, which is equivalent to what is Norwegian production today, it is not noticed on the world market. You don't notice. This was absorbed quickly and quickly by the production capacity that one had globally. Probably the 1.6 million barrels would be produced with higher emissions than we have on the Norwegian base. The economic impact of a politically controlled phase-out will, I believe, be great and dramatic, because the signal effect, if we are to say that we are to phase out, will lead to a huge loss of jobs, a great loss of technology environments, which will immediately draw on other provinces to drive the development of technology, and thereby also a huge loss of income for Norwegian society. Self-inflicted suffering for the sake of mankind's sins is nothing new. In the Middle Ages, Europe was haunted by self-discipliners, so-called flagellants, who flogged themselves for the sin of the world. This did not lead to the world getting better that time, nor does it work in our days.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2269	It is particularly felt to be on the floor of the Grand Duchy and to discuss proposals for the closure of Norway’s largest and most important industry. That is why I am very pleased that there is still a broad political consensus that the petroleum industry is an industry that will be important for our value creation for a long time to come. The industry provides jobs throughout the country and contributes to industrial development, technology development and societal development that benefits the whole country. Especially in our northern part of the country, oil and gas industries have contributed to strong growth in recent years. Even for scenarios that are in line with international climate objectives, Norwegian oil and gas are important factors in the foreseeable future. In this case, it is proposed to present a new notification of petroleum in the light of the climate challenges. Sustainability is important and should be a guiding principle in the formulation of all policies, but in order not to abuse the concept, it is important to take into account some realities. It is a hard reality that fossil energy needs to be reduced if we are to avoid continuing temperature increases. At the same time, we know that the world's population is growing and needs more energy. We also know that natural gas has lower greenhouse gas emissions than coal. It is also doubtful that oil will be in demand for many years to come, and that a number of other countries, which have neither functioning democratic institutions nor strict health, environmental and safety requirements, are ready to deliver. In fact, the International Energy Agency believes that the world will use more oil in 2040 than today, and that the demand for natural gas will increase by 50 pst. Therefore, what is crucial to the future level of greenhouse gas emissions is the fossil energy that is being incinerated and where it comes from. The question we have to ask is whether we want Norway to be a stable supplier of energy the world needs, or whether we are going to leave to countries like Russia and the Middle East to fill the void we want to leave. Last Friday was thus a milestone, when the United Kingdom had the first day since 1882 when coal power was not produced to cover the energy consumption. A combination of high CO 2 tax and cheap gas has reduced the production of coal power in the United Kingdom, which has also led to the decommissioning of many coal-fired power plants. The UK authorities have decided that the country’s last coal-fired power station must close down by 2025 as part of its climate commitments. The shift from coal to natural gas in European electricity production led to a 48 million tonnes CO 2 equivalent cut in CO 2 emissions in 2016. What would be the signal effect if the Storting had adopted the proposal to investigate the phasing out of Norwegian oil and gas in 20 years, when the countries around us use Norwegian gas to achieve their climate targets? For me, climate and energy policy is also about aid policy and solidarity. I am therefore very surprised that parties that are strong advocates for increased assistance are the same as will draw Norway from helping to reduce the energy gap in the world and reduce greenhouse gas emissions globally. Norway is the world leader in climate-efficient oil and gas production. An offensive research effort, together with the world's most stringent environmental requirements, has provided for this. Nowhere else in the world does the oil and gas industry have such an incentive to make production as environmentally friendly as possible. Every day, Norwegian industry works on this. This policy has resulted in significantly lower CO 2 emissions, less use of chemicals in production and significant reductions in marine emissions. I'm proud of that. The Norwegian oil and gas industry shall be part of the solution to the world’s energy challenges. There is nothing the government has found out, it is also the United Nations Climate Panel and the International Energy Agency believes. Then we can't take the first step towards putting it down, as these proposals call for. The Environment Party of the Greens does not make Norway cleaner, but undoubtedly poorer and less able to have an offensive climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2298	The Green Party has made a comprehensive proposal on many aspects of Norwegian petroleum policy. We believe that it is demanding to deal with them responsibly in a draft representative. It is beyond doubt that fossil energy is one of the main causes of global warming, and Norway needs to take this challenge seriously. At the same time, it is important that changes in the framework conditions for an industry that is so important to the country and which employs so many people need to be properly addressed. Predictability has been one of the success factors of the petroleum policy and it is important that changes have been reviewed before they enter into force. This believes the Christian People's Party is a work that must be done in connection with a big message. It is becoming a few years since we had a petroleum message for treatment in Stortinget, and a lot has happened at this time. Both the oil price drop and the Paris agreement will have a major impact on Norwegian oil policy. The Christian People's Party therefore believes it is not unreasonable that a new oil message is coming soon to deal with these questions. The Christian People's Party will therefore support a new petroleum message. Then I will address the proposal that the Christian People's Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2307	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2312	I will just add a few comments to the proposal and the vote. The Committee comes back with a slightly wider debate on the follow-up to the Paris Agreement through the own-initiative debate in mid-May, and much of the debate on it seems natural to the Central Party. It is a very broad majority that today rejects the proposals put forward by the Greens, which refer to the long-standing interaction and division of roles between the state and oil companies in Norwegian petroleum policy and that it has served Norway well in many ways, in terms of employment, jobs, activities around the country and not least revenues. Clearly, the challenges related to emissions from the petroleum sector are important challenges. But as has been said here in the past, and as is also said in the setting, within scenarios that are in line with international climate objectives, there will also be room for the petroleum activity and the petroleum resources owned by Norway. I think, like the representative of Aabergsbotten, that it is quite important to point out that when we think that other countries are very good at cutting greenhouse gas emissions, when we think that the United Kingdom is very good at cutting greenhouse gas emissions, it has been primarily so far because they shut down coal plants and replace coal with, among other things. Norwegian natural gas. So we have contributed to a significant reduction in emissions in the United Kingdom through our exports of gas. I think we should be pleased about that, because it is important to regard climate emissions as a global quantity, which is not limited to individual countries. The centre party, like the rest of the majority, does not come to support any of the proposals presented here today. We believe that the discussion about a global pricing of CO 2 emissions is important and absolutely necessary, and that is, of course, all reason to believe that both the global system for CO 2 pricing and the climate quota market we have today are not working well enough, and that it needs to be tightened to get a higher quota price, so that first we get rid of the business that has the largest emissions. I also believe that getting a tighter quota market and a higher CO 2 price will be a line that the Norwegian oil company can also largely stand behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2334	The case rapporteur Per Rune Henriksen said that Norwegian petroleum policy has been successful, and that is quite right. It's been very successful in the last forty years, when we've built up the country's most sovereign industry. We also have income beyond what could have been expected, and we have built up a wealth that is the very basis for the future well-being we are going to have, in the state pension fund abroad. At the same time, however, it is now right and necessary to look at a whole new situation. The Paris Agreement sets completely different goals than what we've had in the past. It's an agreement that doesn't wait for a global CO 2 price, it's an agreement where each country has to meet its obligations, and it's a point in itself that you really have to go ahead. In the Paris Agreement, it's not what the consequences are of achieving a target of having 2 pst. – do not go beyond 2 degrees of heating – which applies, but that we should extend to 1.5 degrees. Then it's like reaching 1.5 degrees, the demand for and the consumption of oil in the world must start going down. So it's going to be a matter of evaluating to what extent we can get to it before 2030 – when will it come after 2030? But it has to go down – unless you have to bet on the world not reaching either the 2-degree goal or reaching 1.5 degrees – with the consequences it has for us and for the rest of the world. And on that very background, whether that is what it means, and to what extent we believe that this is really possible, I think it is right that we now get a new petroleum message. These are the long-term perspectives that we have to base on. In fact, the Norwegian discussion on oil policy is largely about four parts. One is that we need to preserve vulnerable areas, which we also had discussions about instead, such as the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja, Jan Mayen, the Møre fields, Skagerak and the vulnerable areas outside the Finnmark coast. And then we need to put a limit on the ice zone that follows the professional advice given. We don't have that yet. This is a fight that we also discussed in place, which will also be important towards the elections for the autumn, and which will be at the top of the left. The second is that we have to have emissions down as much as possible during production. For the left, it is now important that we take the next step, that we have to assume that all new developments either have zero emissions via electrification, or that we have exhaust gas management in such a way that we do not have emissions to air. The third is that expansion has to pay off. Then we believe that it is necessary that we review the tax system and the petroleum policy we have, so that we do not take unnecessary risks on behalf of the Community in the years to come, precisely because we know that consumption will have to go down, with the consequences it will also have for international pricing. There is a great deal of uncertainty here, but that is exactly why it is important to address the problem. Now there is not a proposal in this case, but for the Left, it is important to continue to put in place – again, as we had at the end of the 1990s – a separate oil tax selection. It's time we looked at it again. At that time it made it possible, among other things, to the lighter fusion system was put in place. Now it is time to review it, whether the situation has changed, whether we also need to change the legislation and support schemes that we have on the Norwegian base. So the last thing, is that climate policy and the goals we set, which are being set internationally, are going to be an increasingly important part of Norwegian policy, and that needs to be incorporated. What does that mean for us to reach 1.5 degrees – what does it mean for expectations of profitability in Norwegian production? And the second thing is, what are the areas that we're going to have to lie in, precisely because we know that large parts of the resources are going to have to lie in the ground? I'm addressing proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2356	The representative of Ola Elvestuen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2361	When the Green Party proposes to start the investigation and planning of a phase-out of Norwegian oil and gas activities, it is not because we are less aware than others of the importance of the oil and gas activities and for Norwegian industry and jobs. However, we clearly place a little greater emphasis on the importance of Norwegian oil and gas activities for world climate change and the link between the consequences and future for Norwegian oil and gas activities as industries, and there are consequences and a future that we believe we should start to take a little more systematic interest in. Today, Norway emits about 50 million tonnes of CO 2 per year, while Norwegian-produced oil and gas, which we partially survive, emits about 500 million tonnes of CO 2, which goes into the atmosphere and increases climate change. So far, Norwegian oil and gas have contributed about 16 billion tonnes of CO 2 to the atmosphere and global warming. If we clear out what is left of oil and gas resources in Norway – this figure is already before the new figures from the Oil Directorate came – it means a further at least 16 billion tonnes of CO 2 to the atmosphere and global warming. The costs of the world failing to meet the two-degree target, or the 1.5-degree target, which we really agree on is the right one, are the strikingly small interest in the Stortinget, compared to the great interest we have in the short-term costs it will have to question further Norwegian oil and gas operations. We are still in a situation at Stortinget where the most important decision on Norwegian climate impact is the decision on how many new fields we are going to open, and thus the potential of how much more oil we are going to supply the world and the atmosphere. That decision is taken in total without having a climate debate in Norway and in Stortinget. It's unsustainable. There are many kinds of expectations about how much oil and gas the world will need in the future, but it should be noted in the recent report by the International Energy Agency and the renewable agency IRENA, called Perspectives for the energy transition, which states that the use of fossil energy as a whole needs to be reduced to a third, and that the oil market needs to be reduced to 45 pst. of today's level by 2050 if the world community is to meet the two-degree objective. Even more cut, of course, if we are to meet the 1.5 degree target that this big one says they want, that is, a much smaller oil market – in an investment perspective in a not very distant future. That should start to be taken into account. While talking a lot about international CO 2 prices and international agreements, and it is true that Norwegian oil production does not go into any agreed political accounts for Norway, international climate work has increasingly deviated from overall joint agreements and is increasingly governed by regional and bilateral agreements and obligations on national boundaries. So the need for Norway to increasingly take responsibility for its own oil production and its consequences is evident in the continuation of the Paris Agreement. It is interesting to see this in connection with the government's own proposal for a climate law, which we will discuss later, and which proposes that Norway cut between 80 and 95 pst. of our greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. Should we do it at the same time as we're a massive oil producer? Very strange. We are now in a situation where the Storting does not have much understanding of the Greens' proposal, but this is a proposal that we are going to come back to on the Stortinget. Starting investigation and planning of the closure of the Norwegian oil and gas industry is a matter for business policy, it is economically sensible, and it is above all to take our national responsibility for our impact on the climate of the earth and on the future of our children more seriously than what we are doing now, where we claim to be leading the climate, and produce more climate change per capita than all, most of the countries in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2389	Is the representative Hansson going to make proposals? Here is a proper sandwich list of suggestions, so they should be included.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2395	I take up the proposals of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2400	The representative then addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2405	SV will remind us that we can have industrial development, technology development and high value creation even if we choose to invest in other natural advantages that this country has, for example. a fantastic nature that lures people out on their travels. We have the fisheries, which are adventurous this year as well. Not least, we have a knowledge-rich, willing and development-oriented population in this country, who really care about the future. Therefore, SV wants to endorse the draft representative from Rasmus Hansson. Norway needs to show that we are on track for the future by not expanding new oil fields. We don't have to open up to new concession rounds, because we've taken our share and so on. We're less than 7 per million of the world's population, but we've released more than 2 pst. of the global emissions. We know that the hope of reaching the two-degree goal is out if we don't halve the output compared to today. And if we're going to reach the 1.5 degree point, which we actually have to do, production has to go down further. The earlier we do the task of converting the petroleum industry, the better rusted we are to succeed in the necessary conversion that will make it viable for future generations on this globe. Today we have too much labour force, too much knowledge and too much capital tied up in the petroleum industry. If we're going to make the transitions, we're going to have to act now. That's why it's urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2414	Let me first say that there is a broad political consensus in Norway on both Norwegian petroleum policy and on Norwegian climate policy, and it is also apparent through the consideration of this proposal for a representative. When we developed Norway's contribution to the Paris Agreement, we assumed that we would achieve the climate objectives, while at the same time having strong and competitive petroleum activities. At the same time, we must take on the developments we see in the world. We need more energy, both because the population is increasing, and because we want to lift more peoples out of poverty and up to standard of living. Let me spend a little time on the latest report to which the representative Rasmus Hansson of the MDG referred, the report of the International Energy Agency and the renewable organisation IRENA, which points to how energy needs to be adapted in order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement on maximum two-degree heating. Yes, it is true, it needs to be more focused on renewables, but the report also states that by 2050 – when it comes to what is defined as the low-carbon society – the order of 40 pst should remain in place. fossil energy sources in the world's energy mix, that is, at a time when the world's population has increased significantly. The question then arises: should we, as a petroleum nation, not participate in the competition to produce these 40 percent fossil energy sources – oil and gas? We know that today, thanks to the Norwegian management of the petroleum sector with its own CO 2 tax, with the ban on torching, etc., we have an average lower CO 2 pressure than oil and gas production in the rest of the world. Then we must be able to continue to participate in the competition to deliver the gas and oil resources needed by the world, even as far forward as 2050. Something else would be just saying no and jeopardizing the employment we have today in the petroleum sector. In addition, up to 200 000 people have their daily activities in the industry, and with their families a large proportion of the population of Norway have their livelihoods related to the oil and gas activities. Furthermore, it will put at risk the well-being we are surrounding today, the funding we have received from the oil and gas business that has helped us to expand a kindergarten offer, a school offer, a education offer, a research offer, a health and care service, a police, a justice service, a defence service, an infrastructure that this nation is particularly proud of, and I believe that the representatives of the Greens and the SV are also committed to maintaining in the course of this process. It would be equivalent to endangering the competence base that petroleum activities have contributed to this country’s building over 50 years. The competence base currently associated with oil and gas activities in Norway may be one of Norway's most important contributors to solving the world's future energy and climate challenges. I am pleased that today, to say the same thing, they reject a total of 14 proposals relating to the vote on this proposal for a representative. It shows that we still have a broad agreement on Norwegian petroleum policy, and it is important for the value creation we have seen in Norwegian oil and gas activities: 13 000 billion. kr in the last 50 years, substantial employment and substantial build-up of skills serving the Norwegian community in many, many areas. It ensures that we safeguard this prosperity, this environment of competence and this opportunity to further develop Norway for a further 50 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2433	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2438	The reason why I take the floor is that the Council of State is pointing back very much to find out how much revenue we have had from the petroleum industry. That is absolutely right, and that is the very basis for the wealth – at least large parts of it – that we have today. But from there to say that it has exactly the same value over the next 50 years, something I'll raise great doubts about. It is precisely this with how much does this come about with the Paris agreement? We have to bring down the discharges. We're going to have negative emissions on a global scale towards the middle of the second half of this century. It must have consequences for the revenues and prices that can be derived from the petroleum activity. My question is, when there's so much going on, how can the Council of State think that the answer to that is still bad?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2445	Our management of our oil and gas resources has served Norway well so far. The management system is good, one of the best in the world. Predicting whether the future is always uncertain, but we can agree to base the premise on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and then there is no doubt that there must be a tightening of the allowances system that applies to this part of the emissions: the ETS by 2030. It will probably affect oil and gas prices, but at the same time we have to take on the perspective that has often drowned in the Norwegian debate, that the world will have oil and gas in the energy mix in 2050 as well. My point is that as a petroleum nation with highly skilled professionals and with a good starting point, we are going to compete to deliver these resources by 2050. It will contribute to the further employment and development of a very competent industry and will contribute to the development of community values over the next 50 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2452	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2459	It's better with 3 than with 1! As a global challenge behind everything we do, climate change is now in its infancy. We currently consume the equivalent of 1.7 earths per year, and we all know we can't keep doing that. But instead of strangling the framework conditions for one of our most important industries, we need to turn our perspective around and see what new technological opportunities it provides for Norway. Competence, predictability and technological breakthrough are the key. We've been through a period of low oil prices. The oil price fluctuates, from a historical perspective. But many companies have spent that period searching for new opportunities and cutting costs. The oil price is just one of the factors in what's happening. The technological drivers are strong. Looking at what new – or, for that matter, mature – technology can have new possibilities for use over time is important. It happens in all sectors, and the clusters have a very important role. I live in Norway's technology capital, Kongsberg, and I want to use the opportunity to pick up a few local examples from the Kongsberg Group. They take over offshore technology management systems into wind power, they take over technology from the maritime sector into the aquaculture industry, and they take defence technology, to mention another industry with which the MDG has at least some problems, into civilian products, among other things. in the form of remote-controlled towers at aerodromes — all examples of mature technology used in new ways. At the bottom are stable framework conditions and predictability. The MDG's proposals will wind up our oil and gas industry. The Workers' Party does not consider that to be correct. My claim is that Norwegian oil and gas industries are well equipped to help deliver energy to an increasingly needed world, including within an ambitious climate target. The representative Arnstad had some good examples of that earlier. I agree with the MDG that there is a risk of being exposed as the owner and investor in the oil and gas industries, and that risk assessments are part of our ongoing ownership. But this is not unique to ownership within oil and gas companies. There is a risk in all industries and in most ownership. Suddenly, technological breakthroughs involving quantum leaps occur. It's happening today with the velocity of lightning, compared to the previous one. But with such a starting point as MDG has, we shouldn't be exposed in any industries. A value perspective: I've always thought that we're going to leave the Earth in better condition than it was when we took over. The climate agreement in Paris and the work in progress give us hope that we will succeed in achieving climate goals. And it's not like that, I think, that those who are currently working on developing new technology are less concerned with this than a general staging representative. It is possible to reconcile the words «oil», «gas» and «climate» and it is possible to reconcile the words «green» and «energy». With the world's need for energy, including Norwegian oil and gas, ahead, it's too stupid that we don't take advantage of the chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2476	Firstly, I would like to draw attention to our proposal No. 8, where it has crept into a ‘not’ that should not be there. We will therefore replace proposal No. 8 with a proposal No. 15, which is distributed, which reads: ‘The government is asked to assess a deductible charge’ – i.e. not a ‘non-deductible charge’ – ‘on all oil and gas activities that go to a separate field resolution fund in order to reduce State costs in the event of field resolution’. We have a relatively solid consensus in the Chamber and in our country that the whole objective of climate policy is that the world must get out of fossil dependence. It is therefore essential to note that the response of the majority of the population to Norway's role is that we should continue to produce fossil energy. It's our strategy – our market strategy and our climate strategy – in a world that's going to get rid of fossil energy, and where the demands for cutting fossil energy are not going to wane. They're going to increase, and that's something that obviously hasn't completely sunk into the representatives. Therefore, there is no question of squeezing the competence of the oil industry, there are no questions of cutting the income we live on – there are questions about taking seriously the political and mental conversion work, and starting to put resources into creating the jobs we need as alternatives to the oil and gas activities, now. The oil and gas activities, as everyone knows, have already lost 30 000 to 40 000 jobs, or even more, because of the oil market itself. We were totally unprepared for this. The government had no countermeasures clear, but a good Norwegian non-fossil working life has absorbed a lot of those people, and shows that we have great adaptability when we need it. But there is every reason to believe that the oil business will continue to lose jobs, and there is every reason to prepare for the consequences of a much lower oil price than what we hope to get. It is a good business policy to start preparing, and it is alarmingly poor business policy that the majority of the population say no on the contrary to start thinking about the possible consequences of long-term low oil prices and further job losses in the oil industry. It's strange that the Storting won't be involved in an initial discussion about what Norway is going to do in a future world that doesn't want oil and gas, and where we have a market around us that already gives more and more evidence that they won't.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2492	The representative of Rasmus Hansson has then taken up proposal No. 15, which shall replace proposal No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2498	I must be allowed to comment on some of the last things that were said. The proposal states quite emphatically that phase-out by 2040 means stopping Norwegian petroleum activities. It means jeopardising both jobs, competences and value creation in this industry serving the community. It must be allowed to ask in a debate like this about how to replace the loss of income that the community will suffer. That's what I did in my first post. Because the jobs we're talking about here are not like any other jobs when it comes to value creation. A workplace in the oil and gas industry generates approx. Ten million. SEK in value creation – one year’s work. With regard to the proposal made by the representative Rasmus Hansson to phase in 10,000 new alternative jobs: no one today can point to any industries that may have the value of the products currently available from each year’s oil and gas activities. It sounds like a quick fix, but unfortunately there is no quick fix to replace the income we currently have from the Norwegian petroleum sector. It has been my point to make visible that the competence we have built up provides the basis for us to take new technological leaps and get involved, be competitive, both in terms of the environment and emissions from a petroleum sector after 2040, and in terms of reducing the costs of developing and extracting Norwegian petroleum resources after 2040. If we leave the possibility of a proposal by the Greens, supported by the SV, in this Chamber today, it will be a great failure towards future generations, which will also have a basis for its well-being and opportunities to further develop Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2507	The representative Rasmus Hansson has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2512	What is a quick fix is to imagine that Norway is going to maintain its well-being and jobs and solve its future problems by just continuing with our delicious oil business. What is a quick fix is to refuse to start planning what we all know we have to do, that is to get out of the oil industry in a responsible way, while moving our resources over to create the new green industries. What is a ‘quick fix’ is trying to imagine ourselves that Norway is helping to solve the world’s climate problem by producing as much oil as possible. This is 'quick fix', Mr. State Council, because it will not work and because it is not responsible. Fortunately, it is a quick fix that I am convinced that we are going to discuss in a slightly more critical and responsible way than what we have achieved in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2517	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2531	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2544	I would like to thank you for a broad review of relevant issues in our relationship with Europe and European cooperation. In the debate in November, I said that the foreign policy picture is now marked by greater uncertainty. The uncertainty has not diminished since then, rather on the contrary. In this situation, our main task in European policy is to ring the EEA Agreement and to ensure the integrity of the agreement. When we see what uncertainty brexit has triggered in the United Kingdom, it should be a warning to everyone who lefles with the idea that we should follow the British and take Norwegian business out of the internal market. The fantasy of a so-called better deal is just a campaign word. Those who use them must tell us: Better for what, and for whom? For export industries and service industries, there is no better agreement than being part of the internal market in which they can compete through a common regulatory framework — with ESA competition supervision and a dispute resolution mechanism in the Court of Justice. Norwegian salmon exporters have known what it could mean to stand outside the protection of the common regulatory framework in the internal market. For the Nordics, there is no better agreement than an EEA agreement that provides opportunities to take work, study or settle in 30 of our neighbouring countries, and to be treated as their own inhabitants. It provides rights and security. Of course, such close integration between countries involved in EU and EEA cooperation is not without challenges. The opportunities to live across borders create both opportunities and challenges that need to be addressed through policies. The use of cheaper labour from low-wage countries is perhaps the most serious. We have met with extensive measures to ensure that foreign workers also have the same pay and work conditions as Norwegian workers. It's a struggle for decent work and social dumping. It is important that the government maintains that the Posting of Workers Directive should not restrict the national space for action to define remuneration and remuneration, as the Council of State stated in its statement. The joint declaration by the Nordic Labour Ministers on the EU Social Pillar now works on ensures respect for the different labour market models of the countries. We have to ring the Nordic working life model. The Council of State states in its statement that the government will be so close to the negotiations between the EU and the United Kingdom on Brexit as possible and must have come to an understanding that Norway and the other EEA countries are not ordinary third countries. The government has also recognized this. I feel it took me a while to overcome the fear of the formalities. The government has met many, both in Brussels and in London. But what the Council of State does not say is what views the government brings to squares. What is the government's attitude to the many questions Brexit travels, and which also affects Norway? What does the government think about the situation of the approximately 20,000 North Americans in the United Kingdom and 10,000–15,000 British in Norway after Brexit? Should the British stay here with us? On what basis? With what rights? Are they still going to receive hospital treatment, as if they were keeping the blue health insurance card? According to The Guardian, President of the European Parliament, Antonio Tajani, recently said that, during his visit to London, EU citizens who are now living and working in the United Kingdom should not just stay after Brexit, but retain their rights as EU citizens. What's the government's view of that? There are 10,000 to 15,000 North Americans in the United Kingdom now living in great uncertainty about their future. Does the government support the President of the European Parliament? The second question is, how will the government involve the Storting in these assessments? Then I assume that there is a broad consensus in the UK that we need to put in place a trade agreement as good as possible with the United Kingdom. The previous European Minister even said that the ambition is ‘like good access to the British market for Norwegian business’ as the EEA Agreement. That's probably what the new government council realized was maybe putting expectations up a little bit since it's not repeated now – unless you were thinking of suggesting that we should be part of United Kingdom. However, the Council of State says: ‘Our aim is to negotiate a comprehensive and comprehensive form of bilateral agreement with the UK’ — either alone or with our EFTA partners. We agree. Now, negotiations with the British cannot start until they are out of the EU, but we can prepare. And once again, the Council of State keeps itself on the heading level. What does the government put in «deep and comprehensive» contract work? Trade agreements are no longer so much about tariffs, but about services, a certain free movement of persons, investment – investment protection mechanisms. The EU and Canada have just concluded a broad and comprehensive trade agreement. Is this model government thinking? And what is the expression ‘contract work’? Is there a relationship outside the commercial one's mind? Is it research collaboration, student exchange or other things? And once again, the question is, how has the government intended to involve the Storting in these preparations? Climate policy: the Paris Agreement has entered into force and is legally binding. The majority has agreed that Norway should implement the commitments in cooperation with the EU – 40 p.m. cut in emissions in non-quota sectors. The Minister for Europe says that the government has opened up the agreement to be enshrined in Protocol 31 to the EEA Agreement. But is it now clear that the EU agrees, or does the EU want to do so as part of the EEA Agreement? It would have been nice if the Council of State could clarify this today. In the November debate, I said that what is also unclear is the way in which Norway's compliance with its obligations is to be monitored, and by whom, if the agreement does not form part of the EEA Agreement? Is it ESA and the EFTA Court, or is it the Commission? Will there be appeal mechanisms, as we know it from the EEA Agreement? And will there be different mechanisms for the two contract options? This has not been clarified by the government. It would have been nice if it could be done today, if that is possible. Another and important question concerns the analysis of the benefit of doing this together with the EU, for which we have repeatedly asked the government to assess. We are particularly interested in the government's view of the differences between a bilateral agreement, a protocol 31 solution and regular inclusion in the EEA Agreement within the various sectors. These are issues that are becoming more and more relevant as the EU now develops its actions and mechanisms. The Council of State also concerned in the statement the so-called export of welfare benefits, which has been another controversial aspect of the possibilities of living and working across borders. Governments announced in the statement a large-scale notification of this in the current period. It didn't come on Friday, so it's starting to rush. This is a question that is discussed in several countries. It has also been discussed here at home over time. Could the Council of States be anything more specific, pending the Storing Message? What are the benefits, apart from what has traditionally been achieved — child welfare and cash support? I assume that you do not think of benefits earned through your own work, such as pensions and unemployment benefits. If you move into these types of performances, you move in my opinion at the whole basis of free movement. Removing the possibility of taking worked-up rights from job to job, as we do in our own country, makes the obstacles to taking a job out far higher. Finally, the presentation fanned wide. But there's too many issues the council doesn't go deep enough into. We therefore need the government's positions to be clarified, preferably during this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2590	Let me first thank the Council of State for a very good and current presentation. It is a great seriousness over Europe now, with unforeseeable uncertainty and uncertainty that we have not experienced in many decades, with undercurrents we have not seen since the mid-war. A wave of anti-globalisation, scepticism to established institutions, renationalisation and isolationism is increasing at a time when we need the opposite, namely more cooperation. Since February 2014, we have experienced Russia's violation of international law, repeated terrorist attacks in the heart of Europe, a wave of refugees and migration from unstable states in the neighbourhood and the emergence of violent extremism. All this at the same time and in combination with low economic growth has given ground to extreme forces, lots on the outer wings with simple responses often disconnected from the facts. We see worrying signs that some countries in the EU and NATO are moving in an anti-democratic direction. Increased national contradictions could make it more difficult to take decisions in joint bodies, such as: The Council of Europe and NATO, with the risk it presents. There is much at stake in a Europe where the values and institutions on which the liberal world order rests, on which we have built our prosperity, and which has given us peace in Europe for over 70 years, are challenged. Protectionism, populism and nationalism are a toxic cocktail Europe must not drink, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs expressed it during the last week’s presentation of the Road Selection Communication — and he is right. Such solutions have been tried before, in the 1930s, and there have been fatal consequences for the entire world economy and for peace. I'm glad the government is offensive to such negative developments. Both the Roadmap Communication on Foreign and Security Policy and the Maritime Communication, as well as the fresh North Sea Strategy, clearly show the direction in which we will go, for enhanced international cooperation, and against protectionism, populism and nationalism. The choice in France is described as a choice of fate. The outcome will be crucial for France’s future relationship with the EU, and therefore crucial for the whole of Europe. What binds the European Union is the axis of Paris-Berlin. On Sunday evening, it became clear that Macron and Le Pen are moving on to other elections. Macron's opinions on hope for Europe and that he will relaunch the European project are important signals. Norwegian foreign policy begins in Europe, where our friends, neighbours and main trading partners are located. Norway has an open and small economy. Trade cooperation with other countries is what we live through. Norwegian business and jobs depend on foreign demand. Europe is the world's largest single market, with 20 pst. of the world economy. In comparison, Russia has 1.8 pst. The EU is and will remain Norway’s main trading partner. About 80 pst. of all Norway exports, goes to the EU. A total of six out of ten export workplaces are based on the EU market. The EEA Agreement, which provides equivalent and predictable access to the EU internal market of 500 million people, is crucial for the prosperity and well-being of Norway. Tens of thousands of jobs throughout District Norway depend on these export possibilities. The agreement provides opportunities and rights for all of us to study, research and work. It is about safe food, about growth and employment, about working together to take care of the environment and about alliance and security policies. Those who want to cancel the EEA Agreement and go for another, uncertain alternative take a great deal of responsibility. It will jeopardise Norwegian welfare. It is naive to believe that Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland will be able to negotiate a better agreement with the 28 EU Member States today than the six EFTA States were able to achieve with the 12 EU Member States. The EEA Agreement must be preserved and continued, and the Right is the guarantor of it. The government will have enhanced and deepened cooperation between Norway and the United Kingdom, with Germany, the Netherlands and France and with our main allies, the United States. Also increasing efforts in unstable areas south and east of Europe, strengthening Norwegian presence in selected countries and bringing up to more frequent meetings in the Nordic region are correct and important road choices. I would like to emphasise that efforts in the Balkans, the region that has been the site of so many conflicts in Europe, need to be strengthened. Norway must invest more, double aid for democracy, women, human rights and the free press. Developments in Turkey are worrying. Turkey after Atatürk has been in many ways an economic miracle. Turkey is dependent on Europe for its trade and economic development. Europe, for its part, relies on Turkey to remain a secular state in relation to its international obligations as a member of the Council of Europe and NATO. It will be an important task for Western countries to influence Erdogan to choose a direction that does not lead away from Europe but follows a European course. Norway is well aware of the worrying legal state and freedom of expression situation with Turkish authorities on all natural occasions. With regard to the wave of refugees and migration into Europe, Turkey plays a key role in which considerable uncertainty has also been raised. A large number of people continue to seek refuge in Europe, in the run-up to war and in the hope of a better future, including: through a dangerous crossing of the Mediterranean Sea. It is important to put in place solutions that limit trafficking and the loss of life and reduce pressure on Europe. Control at our common external border is essential for proper Schengen cooperation and for free movement within Europe. Norway is actively involved here. We use approx. 200 million. to strengthen Greece’s ability to deal with refugees and migrants. Poland is the largest beneficiary of EEA funds from Norway. It is an important ally and partner for Norway in Europe. As one of the Member States of the Council of Europe, Poland has undertaken to respect democratic rules of play and fundamental rights and freedoms that belong to a well-functioning democracy. Developments in Poland since the government change in November 2015 give rise to concern, with estimates of freedom of the press, freedom of assembly and control of the judiciary. Poland will now have control over the support to independent organisations. This also applies to Norwegian money. Norway cannot accept this. The British have now initiated Article 50, and Prime Minister Theresa May has issued a new election on 8 June. The stress is strongly linked to the consequences of Brexit, both for cohesion within the United Kingdom, for growth and value creation, for jobs, for stability and security in Europe and for the future of the rest of the EU. The country with the second largest economy ends at a time when we least need the uncertainty it brings. Fortunately, the British have said that they still want close cooperation in defence and security policy. In the ecosystem of friends of which Norway is part, the British are among those to whom we have the longest and strongest ties, and who have been an important partner for Norway in processes with the EU, a channel into the EU on important issues for Norway, which we will now stand without. The United Kingdom is our most important export market; the market for Norwegian gas is particularly large. It will be essential for Norway to establish a good trade agreement on the basis of which the UK will negotiate with the rest of the EU. Today it is approx. 20 000 Nordics who live in the United Kingdom, and approximately 14,000 Britons in Norway. Their rights to live, study and work in our two countries are rights deriving from the EEA Agreement. It becomes demanding and complicated for the UK to replace agreements in all fields covered by EU membership. First, an outsourcing agreement, financial obligations, border issues and citizens' rights, then an agreement regulating the future relationship between the EU and the United Kingdom, will take some time. Therefore, it is good that there is agreement between Norway, the EU and the United Kingdom to have a closer dialogue and consultation along the way, and that Norway is ready to discuss concretely our future cooperation with the United Kingdom as soon as conditions permit. It is important to avoid a contractual void after brexit. I want to pay tribute to the government for the active work that is being done to ensure the best interests of Norway. We must prevent the development of the Europe of national egoism, where each country only cares about its own needs. It is only through continuing committed international cooperation, through the UN, NATO and our own EEA variant with the EU that we are securing the future of Norway, both economically and politically.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2643	Let me also first thank the Council of States for a broad and good presentation on EU and EEA issues. The EU is experiencing an existing crisis. The United Kingdom’s referendum and the country’s suspension of Article 50 for the gradual formal release of the Union is a warning of tough times in the future. The Heads of State of the EU countries are doing their utmost to destabilise the situation, but during the polished and slippery façade it is tumbling. In France, the vulmer in Denmark, the vulmer in the Netherlands, the vulmer in Italy, and the distance between people most and the EU management in Brussels are increasing. The causes are more and more, but at the bottom of all concern are the ever-reduced relevance of the nation states, not only because of the transfer of power to Brussels, but increasingly because of the rapidly increasing migration from Africa and Asia that divide countries and peoples. It is the common policy on asylum and immigration that is the trigger for the current discontent. Europeans most feel powerless and let their frustration go beyond the established parties. We must be careful to judge any country that is skeptical of the European Union. There is a tendency to say that countries cannot survive on their own, and that it leads to everything from Nazism and racism to what is worse. But it is true that for most of history countries have been independent countries, and they have also become independent countries without necessarily having to go to war against each other, so there are countries that can survive without being part of a Union, and Norway is a good example of that. The EU-Turkey relationship reinforces this picture. The EU requires Turkey to move in a more democratic direction before membership can become a reality. Turkey, for its part, claims that such conditions are a barrier to EU integration of a large Muslim country into the Union. Both parties may have something right in their assessments, but Turkey is holding a very strong hand through its control of a potential migration flow to Europe. Norway is a small and open country and is totally dependent on being able to sell goods to EU countries under the same conditions as EU countries have internally. Unlike larger countries such as the United Kingdom and France, it is not possible for Norway to act as an island with special trading conditions. This does not mean freeing and competition in all sectors, but it will mean that Norway will have to focus on the production of goods and services that we have good prerequisites for delivering cheaper or better quality than others. At the same time, it is important to stress that Norway does not export or import into and from the EU. We export and import to and from countries that are members of the EU. The EU is not a trading entity, but countries that have agreed to trade on a level playing field and that have established a level playing field for trade. Countries have established harmonised standards which impose obligations. There are technical requirements, safety requirements are either for the size of sockets, the socket on bulbs, the haze on the windows or the size of the keyholes. This may sound de minimis, but it allows for real competition between different suppliers, and it is crucial. All of this is positive. However, the challenge with the EU is not to create a level playing field for business. The challenge is to try to create a political union – that's where the challenge comes from. Countries have not wanted to listen to their own citizens and have ignored the national state in favour of European integration. Fortunately, people protest. People don't want to let go of their national identity. They want to retain their national characteristics; they want to maintain their national culture. This is exactly where the EU is bombing. The system itself has become self-enhancing. For what will the many thousands of EU employees be doing if they are not looking for new areas and the EU can replace national self-government? That's actually what they're set to do. They are not only working for a level playing field, as was the intention of the establishment of the European Joint Union, but they are looking for an overall political community, which may not exist and which may not exist. Trade in goods and services across borders has served all EEA and EU countries well. The main challenge has been the free movement of labour in recent years. This is due to different levels of well-being, different working conditions, different levels of pay, different social security benefits and not least different cultures. It has created challenges that have not been adequately addressed. Another consequence is that national labour forces gradually disappeared in some fields as imports of labour disappeared. The various social security systems of the EEA countries make the exchange of labour particularly problematic. For Norway, social security exports are something that can in the long term kick legs under the EEA Agreement, which was also addressed by the Council of State. It is very unreasonable and gives unfortunate incentives that, for example, if the recipient is resident in another EEA country, it is not possible to adjust social security benefits by purchasing power. For example, child welfare and cash support constitute 15.8 pst. of an average annual salary in Norway, but it amounts to 95,8 pst. of an average annual salary in Poland and 122.3 pst. of an average annual salary in Lithuania. The government has taken several measures to limit social security exports. This applies, inter alia, to: in the case of longer stays abroad and requirements for a residence prior to the exercise of the right to such different benefits. However, the issue shows that it is not unproblematic for the EU to include more and more countries, including countries where the level of pay and well-being is significantly lower. And then we have the flow of migration to Europe, an area where the EU has failed fundamentally. In its inability to understand — or, to put it correctly, to fail to understand — the EU’s leadership and the Member States have risen above their own citizens. In its desperate need to act politically correctly, the values on which the EU is based have been undermined. The Schengen Agreement and Dublin cooperation are under pressure and, moreover, are not a sustainable agreement for the future. In the short term, external border controls reduce the pressure on migration, but there are other factors that contribute to the opposite – not least the assistance and ferry traffic of European countries to carry migrants across the Mediterranean. This traffic should stop, it cannot continue, because there is no end to it if we continue along the same route – not necessarily that Norway should do it on its own, but we need cooperation, so that we end this and do not transport thousands of migrants every day from Africa to Europe. The protests we experience over large parts of Europe are positive and well-founded. The flow of migration from Africa and Asia has no end, and the continuation of today’s policies can have consequences far beyond what can be addressed today. It is therefore important for the EU to shift its immigration policy to the benefit of its citizens. The alternative I don't even dare to think about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2668	I would also like to thank you for a useful report on important EU and EEA matters from the Council of State. Norway is linked to the EU through a dynamic EEA agreement, which has given us a much closer link than had been foreseen at the time of the agreement. Yes-page and yes-majority here in Stortinget have been effective in the policy of adaptation, far beyond what people have given the Stortinget mandate to – in my view. One has also effectively held the debate on the EU and the EEA in public. At a time when the EU project is under debate in most EU countries, the United Kingdom has declared itself, and France is in danger of ever having the most right-wing President, the majority in the United Kingdom is not reaching by one millimeter. Governments repeat the mantra repeatedly: the EEA Agreement is necessary to ensure market access. The EU has concluded more than 200 trade agreements with countries around the world. On the one hand, the EEA Agreement is a special international system whereby one party unilaterally gives up the right of self-determination so that both parties have reciprocal access to each other’s markets. There are very few, if any, examples of corresponding agreements in the rest of the world. Former Labour Party Council Halvard Bakke wrote the following about Norway's access to the EU market for industrial products in No to the EU Yearbook for 2012: ‘The truth is that we would have our products sold just as well without the EEA Agreement. If the EEA were to lapse, the former trade agreement with the EU would automatically enter into force in accordance with Section 120 of the Agreement. Norway would be able to sell its goods without customs duties and other barriers to trade just as before.’ The councils said in their speeches: ‘The debate after Brexit has clearly shown that it is difficult to have full access to the internal market if you do not want to join the EU or the EEA.’ Perhaps the Council of State will elaborate on what he means by 'full approach'? The point for Norway is that we can sell our goods in the EU market. We will do very well without the EEA Agreement. Can the Council of States now give one example of the fact that the EEA Agreement has given a Norwegian industrial company access to the EU market that the company would not have had with the free trade agreement that Norway had – and still has – with the EU? Does he have any example of a Norwegian company that would not have its goods or services sold without the EEA Agreement? The United Kingdom was a historic event. A number of the British said no to the eternal centralization of power in Brussels. Studies after the census showed that the requirement for democracy was the most important motivation for the British to leave the EU. The principle that decisions about the United Kingdom should be taken in the United Kingdom was in force. Sees a woman as a voice for brexit, a large number of British workers are scolded to leave the EU, while an upper middle class and elite voice to stay. There are British workers who have marked the consequences of the EU's free flow of labour and deregulation of working life. In the United Kingdom, real wages for many workers are lower now than they were ten years ago, and many people know less about their job security. The Council of State stated in figures that there is ‘nearly any country that has had more meetings with the United Kingdom at government level after the Brexit vote than Norway’. He also claimed that the government ‘will have the best possible cooperation with the United Kingdom even after Brexit’. I guess that's good. When the United Kingdom decided to leave the EU, the Norwegian government was busy explaining that, of course, only the resistance to immigration was behind. That's wrong. I think Norway must have the most loyal EU government in Europe. First, warn a British against going out of the EU. So an EFTA refused to send letters to invite to cooperate after Brexit. So threaten to block any UK EFTA membership, and then, following strong pressure from Norwegian business, Norway’s holding was changed to Norway’s positive cooperation with the UK, but the UK itself had to find out what they wanted. But when the British wanted to set up a formal working group with Norway to prepare a new free trade agreement after Brexit, it was, on the contrary, no from the government, although according to today's business life there were different views and different advice from the government. So the government has to be the closest one to turn Norway into an audio empire in the EU. Last week I met Sogn and Fjordane Fiskarlag. Of course, they are busy with brexit, as the United Kingdom and Norway now have large areas where the two countries are to agree on fish management and fish quotas where the EU was previously the counterpart. In addition, it is a major market for Norwegian exports of fish and fish products. Sogn and Fjordane Fiskarlag were optimistic about the future. They think it is possible for Norway to negotiate better agreements with the United Kingdom than we have with the EU today. The question is, what does the government do? I hope the Council of State in the debate will respond to what the government will do to the United Kingdom. What does the government want to do to meet the business community, to be a caretaker? Would you like to continue with passiveness and pointing at various arrangements, or would you like to do something positive? Then the time went to the end, so I said thank you for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2702	Norwegian security and prosperity lie on two important pillars. One is the transatlantic, and the other is the European. Unfortunately, at a time when there is evidence that the transatlantic is moving towards a little bit less water because of political developments, it is all the more important that one secures our European connection and cooperation with our neighbouring countries. There I find that the government is essentially doing and thinking right things, and I support the main lines of the distribution from the European Minister, although I have to add that in these debates it is always a little interesting to right the tension that arises as the Right's representative has left the pulpit, and the Progress Party's representative is going on him. It's a voltage that's not insignificant, so to speak. Then, of course, these debates, every single year, are drawing up that there is a major crisis in Europe, and there is no way of how bad developments are going around. I think, at least on a day like this, it's good to look back at what happened in time after Britain's dramatic choice to leave the EEA area, when people go to the polls. Well, what has happened, first in Austria, then in the Netherlands, now last in France, is that those who win elections are the ones who will continue to work towards European cooperation. I have to say that especially when it comes to France, it is funny given the importance of that country in EU cooperation. Now we're going to have another round of elections, so we're not going to cancel out any results, but all the time we see that the campaign for Emmanuel Macron has been subjected to 4,000 hacker attacks from Russia, while his opponent accepts support from the same team, it says a little about what interests are at stake here, and who we should want to be on the team with – enough about it. Brexit is a serious and dramatic event, primarily for the United Kingdom, but also for us and for Europe. I thought the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde took a little light on this with the rejection that we will be able to allow war to go to each other even if we do not cooperate across the EU and the EEA. That's what we're going to have to hope for. But I have to say that there was a little glitch in me when Michael Howard, who is the former leader of the Conservative Government Party in the United Kingdom, was out there and about threatened with war and pointed to the Falklands war when one was going to discuss the further status of Gibraltar. And so it's with Spain. We should not underestimate the effect that countries actually have of cooperating closely, including for peace and security. There is nothing to take for granted. For Norway, it is clear that we should follow closely. We are totally dependent on having a good and clear relationship with the United Kingdom when it comes to trade, security, etc. It is not easy for us to become part of the negotiations that we strictly take is not part of, but I assume that the government is doing what it can to get information and to keep Norwegian interests, which is significant here. At the same time, I would say that brexit is not the end of European cooperation, and brexit is not everything that happens. There is a danger that one in the focus on brexit will forget all the processes that are ongoing in the EU and that are important for Norwegian interests for them to continue. I want to highlight a couple: Perhaps the most important thing right now is the large processes that are going around the future climate and energy legislation and the framework within the EU. Here the Stortinget with a large plurality has said that we're going to connect. The way in which EU countries do this — in view of obligations on emissions between different countries, burden-sharing mechanisms, how to count, for example. forest, etc. – has a decisive impact on the Norwegian economy and on our future climate policy. It's got to be Norway. Another point is the refugee crisis, which got its temporary stop after one made an agreement with Turkey – a country that could also say a lot about when it comes to democratic development. But the refugee crisis out there hasn't ended. When it is said here that the problem is the common European asylum policy, I would say: rather the opposite. The problem is, of course, the lack of a common asylum policy, the lack of proper common border protection, the lack of burden-sharing mechanisms, so that everyone can contribute. That's what's the long-term solution to the refugee situation. At the end of the day, many have recorded social security exports, and they produce cash support in particular. If that's one of the concerns, it's probably the easiest thing to do, but I'm going to say that in the fight against the export of social security – and that's the minimum amount – one must not lose sight of the importance that an actual free movement of labour can have across national borders, with justice. It's important to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2723	Thank you for your time. This is a debate that dresses this hall well. It is a debate that should be wide-ranging. It is a debate in which there must be clear opinions, it must be good opinions, because it is a broad field and it is an important topic we are debating. The presentation is broad, but this field engages so much that it calls for more knowledge, it's not strange, it's right. Then it's like in an hour you can't deliver everything, and then you have to take it in the debates. The need for cross-border cooperation in Europe has rarely been greater, at least not in the last decades, and it has rarely been more evident that a fragmented Europe is a weak Europe. Then there's a paradox when someone thinks we're going to cooperate less, not more, to solve difficult questions. The representative Tybring-Gjedde addresses migration policy as a topic. I am unable to see in any field that there is a problem we can solve by not cooperating with anyone else. It's a field that's obviously ready for cooperation. As Tybring-Gjedde says, there have been independent nations that have not been in the Union before. The independent nations traded with each other, the independent nations cooperated with each other in ways other than just being in union. The alternative also at the time was actually war and unfriendliness between nations, so the cooperation we see in Europe, and have looked after World War II, has something very valuable with it, and that we should fence about. The representative of Navarsete calls for an example of some Norwegian companies having improved market access and better framework conditions for signing the EEA Agreement. That's a very good question, I'm very grateful for that. I come from a small town called Båtsfjord – the fishing capital. There we produce cod, hay and siev. Before we got the deal in 1992, we had 12 pst. customs duties on cod fillet, we had 7.5 pst. customs duties, and we had 7.5 pst. great on the sea. This made it difficult to compete in the markets. At the beginning of the 2000s, globalisation met with population. In a very short time, it turned out that a Chinese fillet cutter that cut the fillet by hand made this so much cheaper than what we managed in Båtsfjord, that the cod we fished on the outside, was frozen, led to China, hand filleted and came out on the European market, in competition with us. 250 jobs smoke in three months in a building where 2 500 people live. That competitive image has turned the boat fjords upside down. Now we produce fresh fillet – we have fresh raw material, cut fresh fillet and get it out on the European market, in competition with the Chinese. It's a better product. So now we can once again produce food in Norway. We can do that only because of the EEA Agreement and the veterinary regulations contained therein. We can pack a trailer full of fillet in Båtsfjord. It comes from Båtsfjord through Finland, through Sweden, through Denmark, through Germany and into France. It says the French veterinary authorities and looks at the note and the stamp that this product is made according to the rules we agree to use when producing food, and we get the products on the market in Paris. So we have saved the jobs in Båtsfjord – in competition with underpaid Chinese people, according to Norwegian standards. Thanks to the representative Navarsete for the question, it was a matter of love. I will also take the floor later, because I cannot get into all the questions of the representative of Sven Roald Hansen. They're good too, so I'll have to take the floor again. But I want to say that the statement shows that this is a broad field. With regard to Brexit and citizens' rights, it is for us an objective and an ambition that citizens should have as good rights as they do today. I read that ambition at the European Union, and I also read it to British politicians. But the practical approach to precisely those negotiations is that we cannot do anything for British citizens in Norway or Norwegian citizens in the United Kingdom until we see what kind of agreement the EU and the United Kingdom are able to negotiate between themselves, precisely because we are part of the EEA Agreement, and we are obliged to follow the negotiations that are coming. But all politicians on these three sides say that citizens' rights are very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2738	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2743	Now the Council of State explained to the extent that one of my questions. Norway supports those who believe that they should be able to retain EEA citizens’ rights and remain in Norway, i.e. that the UK should remain in Norway. I agree with that, and I believe that the Nordics who are in the United Kingdom, and possibly will have similar rights, also agree. Of course, it is true that there are negotiations between the EU and the United Kingdom that will decide that question, but my point, since we have now met, was to get an understanding that we are close, so it is also important that we give our opinion and our view on such matters. But now there are many different aspects of this, and the question is, how are you going to involve the Storting in these considerations? Are you going to drive on your own keel and get ready to come back, or are we going to be allowed to participate in the debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2751	We have ambitions to be able to inform not only the Storting, but also Norwegian interests, businesses and others affected by these events, as much as possible. We think that's a good idea. We recorded that when we were early out with business and others in the autumn, it was well received. We also have ambitions to do that in the spring. This is a matter of new knowledge and new information on the table every day, both in the EU, in the United Kingdom and also in Norwegian stakeholders. We want to inform as much as possible, and of course we need to keep the Storting informed, but there are two things to bring with us. One is that we collect information, and we're going to disseminate it, but it's also a negotiating element in this case. It is not that we can then negotiate it through the newspapers, always negotiate through open forums. It becomes like we have to make some assessments of whether this is information in which we want to keep the cards a little close to the chest until we have moved on in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2758	Fortunately, there are mechanisms between government and enlargement, so that I think we can meet that need. The second important question is the trade agreement we will have to try to get and rely on in terms of the United Kingdom, our most important individual export trading country. Trade agreements are now largely negotiated either between Norway and another country or by EFTA on behalf of us, and negotiations are being held, the government is making a mandate, and the matter will be settled at Stortinget. I believe that that time is over when trade agreements can be negotiated in this way, at least as comprehensive as we should have with the United Kingdom. Now it won't be this Council of State that is at the forefront of those negotiations, it will be the Minister of Industry, but will the government take care to involve the Stortinget and also civil society in the thinking about how we are going to deal with those negotiations, and what requirements are we going to make?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2767	Yes, it will be important, in two fields. It is important to create an understanding of those who work closely with it, but also of what kind of agreements apply, what positions apply. The representative of Navarsete attacked me in his post because I had tried to block a future EFTA membership from the UK. That's not right, we just explained what kind of rules were there, and what kind of options Norway has as a nation to take care of national interests. This will be complicated, as the representative Hansen says, because parts of it may go in parallel with the EU, parts of it that belong to the EEA Agreement today. Part of it may be appropriate for us to negotiate with the United Kingdom under the auspices of EFTA-4, possibly the EEA, and parts of the area are likely to have to be negotiated directly with the United Kingdom. We get to use the mechanisms we have to keep both the Storing and civil society informed about what's coming, but it won't be easy. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2774	Norwegian fishermen are getting large resources in what is now becoming British, which has been a former EU area. Mackerel and herring are divided as a percentage per country. Now this is going to be the British sector. Sogn and Fjordane Fiskarlag, whom I just met, claim that it will be easier with, for example. bottom fishing now when there are fewer fishes. One believes that a better deal can be made with the United Kingdom because when a person negotiates only between two countries, it is easier to look at the administration, and it is clear that there are fewer resources to share. How does the Council of State view the forthcoming negotiations, and does he agree with the Fisheries Team that we should be optimistic because there are great possibilities for a better agreement for Norway than one has today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2779	No, I probably don't read the resource regime the same way as Sogn and Fjordane Fiskerlag, if this is properly referred to. When the United Kingdom leaves the EU, it is not the case that the United Kingdom will take with it all the rights of pelagic populations in the North Sea. There are, among other things: Denmark involved, Ireland will be there with its rights, so that there will be no Norway against the United Kingdom in herring and pelagic. There will still be more parties to negotiate on this issue. The most important thing will be to ensure that future management also applies to the sustainable principles that one has negotiated over many, many years. That's going to be the first point. I also hear, not from Sogn and Fjordane, but from barges, among other things, that they have traditionally very good contact with the British fleet and British fishermen and organizations. This is important in view of the future negotiations we are going to enter into, because good contacts are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2786	Now, herring and mackerel were just one example, and this is a lot more than that. But let's leave the fish, or maybe we should stick to the fish, but to the verdict that the council gave from the pulpit, as far as I understand, he said that 250 jobs were lost in Båtsfjord in the 21st century because one has lower wages in China than one in Norway. There is certainly little to do with the EEA Agreement, because the salaries in China are not regulated by either the EU or Norway, and one might wonder how Chinese products, i.e. from a third country, can compete with Norwegians when they have such good agreements within the EEA that they are secured. I thought it was a very bad example, and I would like to have the name of the companies that the Council of State thinks the EEA agreement was decisive for, and not the pay level, either in Norway or China, or the automation, which is now the reason why a can flag home jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2791	Well, it's actually the way that the competitive image against China was that frozen raw material became an international commodity, one could take it to China, produce there and take it out on the European market. We had to find a advantage that made Norwegian industry competitive in this market. That was the advantage of fresh products, because then we can pick up the fish fresh right outside the door, produce it fresh in Båtsfjord and get it out on a market in Europe, a well paying fresh market. The veterinary legislation we have in common through the EEA Agreement makes it possible to produce, and we have been able to convert Norwegian production into Båtsfjord and the Finnmark coast so that we could save jobs and make trade on the European market. In terms of the names of businesses, we have Båtsfjord AS, the Båtsfjord farm is from the farm, and Norway Seafoods is big in this type of industry. Some of the companies that went over the edge, which could not compete, were Nils H. Nilsen, there were marine products and different ones. The EEA Agreement is a shining example of the fact that it provides a framework for Norwegian industry to cope with global competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2798	I have still not heard one word that suggests that the same development could not take place without the EEA Agreement, because this is about new developments, it is about facilitating new production methods and new products. There's nothing to suggest that you couldn't get it with a trade agreement, just like Norway had before. I have not been given a name for specific companies that depended on the EEA to do better. But I have a third question because there was room for that. There is ongoing work in the EU on the circular economy, which may have significant implications for Norwegian waste policy. Waste is a highly growing industry with a high intensification. KS is busy that Norwegian municipalities can continue with the waste management they have today, both household waste and household waste, if we can use it, in terms of quantity and nature. How will the Council of State ensure that Norway and Norwegian municipalities can continue waste management and thus ensure both a resilient and a resilient service?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2805	First, I have to be allowed to try again to answer the first question, which was rejected, for the common veterinary legislation, the common law we have for food production, is what gives Norwegian companies a competitive advantage and an opening up to the European market. Without a common veterinary code, a food hygiene code, it would not have been possible to produce fresh food as easily as possible and move it from Båtsfjord to, among others. Paris. The EEA Agreement is essential to provide companies with competitiveness against cheap hands in China, Vietnam and other places – undoubtedly, they ask their owners. Then to the circular economy. It's a field that's probably a little out of line with what I'm taking on right now, but the advantage of an agreement and the close European cooperation we have is that we have an arena where we can negotiate and take care of Norwegian interests, even when it comes to that topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2812	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2817	I would also like to start by thanking the Council of State for a rich account. The major challenges in Europe can only be solved through mutual cooperation between countries. The EU is based on just that. Countries dealing with each other do not fight with each other. This sentence alone forms the basis for my yes to the EU. It is also an important argument as to why our relationship with Europe through the EEA Agreement is important to Norway. I support both the views of the Council of State and the representative of Hansen on those who claim that Norway will have a better agreement with the EU if today's EEA agreement is replaced by a trade agreement, and they speak enough – to put it a little diplomatically – to better knowledge. Everything is not perfect in our EEA cooperation, but today's EEA Agreement gives us important, fundamental rights and opportunities in a number of important areas of society. The example of the Council of State from Båtsfjord is a good example of creating and securing jobs throughout the country through EU legislation. My view is also that those who want to stand outside this community are firmly rooted in the message: «Make my country great again.» That's not what I want. The challenges of migration in Europe were widely addressed, and so far in the debate. It's a challenge that we all know about the body. And I agree with the Council of State that efforts to reduce the migratory pressure, gain control of who knocks on our doors, and get a responsible distribution of responsibility between countries, must and must be high on the political agenda across Europe. Most countries and the EU take this seriously and try to reconcile these challenges, but unfortunately we see that forces on the far right in European policies choose to ignore joint solutions. For this reason, I think it was a little surprising that the Council of States in its presentation did not address the challenges that a more nationalist and protectionist Europe could pose for the cohesion between European countries and our common security. One area that will be affected in such a case is Schengen cooperation. Simple rhetoric that it is best served to close all doors and literally build fences to prevent access to their own country, reaching a large number of voters in more and more European countries — most recently in France, where more than 20 pst. by the voters said yes to this form of rhetoric. The whole of Europe awaits the final outcome after the second round of elections on 7 May, and we are many who trust the voters in France to inform Le Pen and her like-mindedness that solidarity and cooperation are trumping nationalism and protectionism. Governments focus on the government’s Northern Region Strategy in the presentation. It's all right, but it's interesting to see which words the Council of State chooses to use to describe their north-eastern policy. In the presentation, the Council of State uses the words ‘shall’ and ‘will’ about government ambitions in the north — in other words, what one intends to do, and very little about what has been done. It's just a confirmation that the government has so far little to point to. At the same time, the government goes high when they say that they want to make North Norway one of the country's most creative and sustainable regions, ambitions to which it is not difficult to join, but once again we see that it becomes word and little action. The recently submitted North Region Strategy only confirms this. In order to create creative and sustainable regions, investment in infrastructure is very important. Then it's close to looking at the NTP proposal that has been presented, and we might be able to use the Council of State and my own home country as an example. Here we find very little new initiative – not new port projects, not new funds for important traffic trails, but only references to the previous government NTP plan. This kind of priority doesn't create much activity, either, on the contrary. Unfortunately, the ambitions of a north-eastern policy that will give the promise Finnmark needs as an important part of the region are on hold. I support what the Council of State said about the Arctic, and I would also like to emphasise that the Council of State so strongly emphasises the importance of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea as the legal framework in the Arctic. I fear that the snow crab case could be the case that challenges Norway on just this. That is why I am very pleased that the government is as clear to the EU as they are. Norway is not going to accept that the EU is taking action in our seas. From this point of view, I believe that Norway and the EU continue to have a constructive dialogue in areas of joint action, in favour of sustainable development in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2837	In times of security turbulence, international cooperation is becoming even more important. As the EEA Minister and EU Minister pointed out, the EU has contributed through its 60 years to stability and peace between old archenemies in Europe. The EU is a success. Eastern Europe and the Baltic countries are also included in the work on growth and prosperity in Europe. For Norway, cooperation with the EU and NATO membership is key to tackling serious crises and challenges, such as large refugee flows, terror and internationally organised crime in our neighbourhoods. It is important to seek alliances that contribute to a safer Norway in the context of the underpinning of foreign and security policy times. Enterprises throughout the whole country live on their European customers and export incomes that provide wages for tens of thousands of employees. The EEA Agreement is a door opener to our second-largest export market and essential for ensuring Norwegian well-being. Anyone following the Brexit process in the United Kingdom will quickly discover that it is not – or will be – a simple affair. There is considerable uncertainty as to what future agreement the United Kingdom will have with the EU and what consequences this will have for businesses, workers, students and others who currently benefit from the single market and EU membership. This uncertainty has an infectious effect far beyond the United Kingdom’s borders. At the annual meeting of Sjømat Norway in Tromsø, Managing Director Rita Karlsen of the Brothers Karlsen AS at Husøy in Senja was able to tell you how the currency and market turmoil after the Brexit vote hit the company at Senja – every single day, as she said. Our many coastal fishing establishments rely on good market access to provide safe jobs and contribute to living communities. In this situation, it is incomprehensible and dramatic that the Centre Party has made it a fanatic to wreck the EEA Agreement, which is the industry’s most important lifeline to the outside world. Government policy works. It goes well in the north — not despite, but because of the EEA Agreement and secure market access to the EU. I hope now people wake up in my home state of Troms and elsewhere where you live by exports and need the predictability that the EEA agreement gives. The centre party clearly considers that the process towards the EEA Agreement is serving the lot, but it is definitely not serving the marine food industry or other Norwegian companies exporting to the EU. The truth is that the Centre Party, with its EEA resistance, is playing political games with tens of thousands of Norwegian jobs in the pot. The centre party has a fundamental explanation problem when the lot clearly knows better than all those who wear the shoe – better than the fishing industry, the food industry, the oil and gas industry, the financial industry, the travel industry and the maritime industry. Because it is a combined Norwegian business that strongly warns against putting our seamless access to a market of 500 million people at risk. No Norwegian export company can survive in the Centre Party’s internal thoughts on what could be an alternative market access agreement. Fortunately, the message from the EU after the Brexit vote is clear: the EEA Agreement is settled. But it does not bite the Centre Party, which continues to argue for another agreement with the EU, while the party continues to treat the EU as a leper. It's little incredible, because we're talking about countries that are our most central trading partners and our closest allies in economic and security policy. We are in a situation where we need more – not less – cooperation in Europe. The EEA Minister and EU Minister have well explained the importance of EU cooperation for Norway and not least the importance of the EEA Agreement for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2858	There's something new happening around us now. Like all other EU countries, Norway has been used to bringing Europe together, working more and more closely and becoming more involved in this cooperation. We have been able to sit safely up here in the north and freely choose our own relationship with civil cooperation in Europe, such as yes or no to EU membership, in EFTA, in the EEA, and we have been free to choose this from purely selfish interests. And we have. We've joined EFTA, we've joined the EEA, but we didn't join the EU, we joined Schengen, but we didn't join the euro zone, and then we're living well with it, which is something that even a hacked-out EU trailer that I can admit. Now the uncertainty has reached Europe in a new way, and then it reaches us too. What happens to the EU after Brexit? What happens to the United Kingdom? How does this affect Norway, and how do we deal with it? It is not possible to give adequate answers to this only ten months after the referendum. Just this uncertainty makes the whole situation difficult, and it puts us to the test – perhaps more difficult than we can understand, and perhaps the public has not fully taken over yet. It's demanding, but we have to ask, and soon we have to get some answers, because it's getting urgent. Because, unlike when countries become members of the EU, there is a deadline associated with leaving the EU. There are less than two years left until Britain is no longer a member. So what do we do? This is about people's lives. It's about what's the point of the EU: creating peaceful cooperation where people can work, where people can live, where people can live, where people can study – they can do it wherever they want, and they do it. Therefore, these changes will affect students from Norway, researchers from the United Kingdom, fishermen from Sogn and Fjordane – who are involved in the Centre Party – and very many others. It will also affect State pension funds abroad, which we should all be concerned with. But unfortunately, we haven't got so many answers to what's going to happen. The representative Svein Roald Hansen has taken up some of this, but we have not received a full answer, so I am waiting for the reply from the EEA Minister and the EU Minister. It's understandable, but it's just as urgent. So I encourage the EEA Minister and the EU Minister to hurry as quickly as he can to set out a course and work out a strategy related to the consequences of Brexit. The EEA serves us well, but we do not participate in policy-making. There are few examples of issues in which we have absolutely something to contribute, and where it is important that Norwegian interests are taken care of. However, it is equally unfortunate that Norway is not in a position to leave the course in Europe. We're sitting on the sideline, and it's in a critical time. We're sitting on the stands when we're needed on the track, and I'm convinced that we have a lot to contribute, and then we have to get away from the stands and out on the track. That's enough to do there, to say it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2867	Our relationship with the EU has been important, but in the future I think it will become even more important. We're a small, open economy, we're facing formidable transitions in Norwegian business, we're going to transform Norwegian business into carbon neutral. It's a comprehensive process. We have some temptations, which is 2050. We have to do this within the limits that we have, and we have to do it in such a way that our companies are competitive in the transformation that we are facing. If we're going to succeed, we have to be part of a larger unit, and we also have to be part of the drivers in order for us to get to a transformation, and it's now the European Union. The EU is a driving force, it is someone who makes arrangements, it creates framework conditions, and it is something that our companies demand in that transformation, it is predictability and good framework conditions. If we're going to succeed, I don't think happiness is coming out of the EU and negotiating special agreements with some countries. I think that's the recipe for how we're not going to do it, and I don't understand parties that dare to expose Norwegian business to such a policy. However, the EU and EEA are not just national policies; it is also a good rural policy. In the state that I come from, Northland, we are totally dependent on being able to develop in an even better way in the future than we have now. We're fishing, we're breeding, we're mining minerals, we're melting metals, and the jam we're a pretty good producer of renewable energy -- all of this. In fact, if we are to make our businesses succeed in the future, I believe that our relationship with the European Union through the EEA Agreement is very important in order for the northern part of the country to have some chance of continuing the success we currently have. It is interesting to hear more people from this pulpit – including in previous debates – highlight how well things are going in North Norway. It's actually going so well in the Nordic countries that we don't even have to come up with Northland VI and VII and Troms II, and one of the reasons why you can say that is just the agreements we have, and what forms a good basis for our business life in the North. But we not only get exports from the big world; we also get some imports from the big world, and one of the major environmental challenges we face is plastic and plastic issues – plastic in the sea. What nation is it that basically has knowledge and technology – from the oil industry, from being a port – to be able to do a job for the world related to this with plastic and plastic issues? Well, I guess we're pretty good at doing a good job there, both for Norway, for our oceans, and not least for the oceans. Then I think it's a good idea that we're doing it together with our friends in the European Union, so that when we're going to present what's going to be one of the most important issues we're going to face, namely the circular economy, as it was asked from this pulp, when we're going to build a circular economy, when we're going to use resources, and when waste is going to go from being a waste to becoming a resource, how are we going to handle it well in a system so big that we can provide our services in the world? I don't think we're doing it through simple agreements alone. If we're going to be able to contribute to the transformation that's going on in this area too, I think we should do it together with our friends in the European Union, so that we get good power – I would say – in what's to be done with it. It's important if we're to succeed, it's absolutely vital if we're to achieve our goal of becoming carbon neutral, that we also succeed in the circular economy. If we don't succeed in the circular economy, we're going to have to struggle to achieve our climate goals. Both for the country and not least for the districts, I believe that the relationship we have with the European Union today, and the link we will hopefully also have in the future, is the guarantor that we will succeed in developing our country and being able to implement the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2890	I got a gift pack of 5 minutes, since my colleague didn't meet up today, so now I have 5 minutes to talk to. It's fine! It is a bit symptomatic of the discussion here in the United Kingdom today, because it is largely the representatives of the Right and the Labour Party who say directly that they are in favour of EU membership, and it is actually reflected throughout Europe. Social democrats and conservatives are largely in favour of EU membership, except in the United Kingdom, which is one exception, and it is a little interesting to see that it is also reflected in Norway. I have seen some contradictions in the debate. The representative of the Navarsete lightens after a company – one company – that would have lost a tender in Europe if it had not had the EEA Agreement. It is not the primary industry that primarily loses competition; it is not the case that the EEA Agreement is the most important; it is all the small enterprises, the small niche companies that submit tenders every day to the EU. These companies would not be able to submit tenders to the EU/EEA countries without the EEA Agreement. They wouldn't have a chance, they wouldn't even have the opportunity. You can travel around the districts or in Akershus and Oslo, and you will find hundreds of companies offering tenders to EU countries. That's what's happening today, and then you can't look for one company, because there's so many of them. It is probably not the task of large-scale representatives to point to one company that may not benefit from, or may benefit from, the EEA Agreement. The representative of Navarsete is also very concerned that the Council of State would find an agreement with the United Kingdom. Why is it so important then, when it is not important to find it with the other 27 countries that are in the EU? Why is Britain exactly so important? It is the same with the United Kingdom as it is with those associated with the EEA/EU. I don't understand the difference, why it should be so important to find framework conditions for the UK. Then to the representative Rotevatn – who is not here now – who spoke about the EU as a peace project. Yes, it was a peace project, with the Coal and Steel Union, the time it was established. But NATO took over this peace project. Since 1949, NATO's 28 member countries have collective responsibility for each other. That is what ensures peace in Europe and peace transatlantically. It's not the EU, it's not trade doing it, as it appears here. It's not that, because it's actually in NATO's doctrine that we have to look out for each other, that an attack on one is an attack on everyone. This is the peace project in Europe. I'm a bit over the representative Simensen, who doesn't call me a right-wing populist or an extreme right-wing populist, but who says that what I'm saying is an extreme right-wing populist. I don't see myself as an extreme right-wing populist. I want EEA cooperation, I want cross-border trade, but I do not want political union. I think a political union is unfortunate, I think a political union is irresponsible, and I think a political union can lead to riots in Europe. We see trends in that already today. Political union is a work that is under way, it is a project that is under way without the blessing of the people and without the permission of the people. I'm against it. So I just want to add -- and that's a little bit interesting, because you're talking about the EU as a kind of unit. Have you heard of anyone travelling on holiday to the EU? Not that, no. One travels on holiday to one country: one travels on holiday to Germany, one travels on holiday to Austria, one travels on holiday to France, and one expects to find French culture, Austrian culture, German culture. If you travel to Sweden, there is probably something left of Swedish culture as well. It is, of course, the national states that are the cultural carriers for Europe itself. No one travels on holiday to the EU – you travel on vacation to Spain, and you know what you can expect when you get to Spain. In the future that many people here are talking about, you can't find it, you can't find the cultural heritage of the nation state or the nation state to go to and visit – in 50 years, or in 70 years, if you don't work for the nation state to actually survive. Now I can't quite see what I've written, President, so I guess I might as well end up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2912	There are many in this debate who point to and are concerned about the trends that we see internationally, including in Europe, which are moving towards greater protectionism and more nationalism, the contradictions between globalisation and protectionism and internationalism and nationalism and the results it gives in Europe. But I think it's important that we also try to understand those contradictions. What's going on? There is also a fear among ordinary people, which must be taken seriously. I think the representative Tybring-Gjedde is taking it too easy when he says that this is about resistance to a political union. This is just as much about the fear of jobs that are lost because competition is spreading and globalisation is moving into jobs and functions. But this is a fear that we must take seriously. Ordinary people feel forgotten. Local, regional and national politicians feel overwhelmed by bureaucrats in Brussels, which in turn is a dangerous cocktail. The vision of a united, peaceful and democratic Europe must safeguard the faith, hope and fear of ordinary people. If you can't do this, the project will stop, and in the worst case, it will collapse. Then it is up to us on the Stortinget and in the government to act – in the Norwegian opinion and in the Norwegian word change – so that Norwegian voters feel that we represent them, that we defend their interests in our cooperation with the EU, and thus that cooperation with the EU through the EEA is an advantage for the Norwegian people. The EEA Agreement is firm, but we have to fight for the acceptance every day. Not least, we know that, we who have to fight for acceptance into the trade union movement, who are deeply concerned about parts of the contract work's future within free competition in the EU, and with labour immigration, social dumping and what goes with it. Let me also say something about another important point that is about much of the same, energy policy. As the Council of State said, EU energy policy is becoming increasingly important to Norway. We now see that the EU is increasingly oriented towards making packages, directives and regulations that govern energy policy in Europe. I believe that there is a positive policy – what the EU is doing – in relation to the European energy market. But this also has some effects on Norway as a large energy nation, as a major energy exporter and on how we manage our own natural resource, namely energy, oil and gas. In Nordic cooperation, we have removed the barrier. We have a common energy market in the Nordic region, which has served us well, I think it will also serve Europe well, it will roll out renewable energy, it will provide cheaper energy to people most. But when Europe does this, it also has some impact on Norway and our energy system, and when we know what differences there are in energy systems in Norway and in Europe, it does make us look after ourselves. Our power generation is close to 100 pst. renewable, while EU electricity production is below 30 pst. However, the number of new clients entering treatment varies from one country to another, ranging from four to four. in Malta to 70.3 p.m. in Austria. This means that what makes sense to roll out renewable energy in Europe can be terribly stupid in Norway. We can take the matter that we are dealing with hot water heaters, which is an eternal matter, which shows what problems we have with the European Union here. It is incredibly important that we, as Norwegian politicians, are present in the European Parliament, in the European Union's debate on these matters and claim the Norwegian interests. Then it is also incredibly important that the Norwegian government is clear and clear on what signals you send out, and that we have debates in Stortinget that give the right foundation for these signals. We remember the ostetoll case, it wasn't a proud affair. Now we have asked for a case on EU energy policy to be brought to Stortinget. I look forward to that discussion, so that we can clarify the Norwegian positions, because this will become an increasingly important topic in the future, as the Council of State says.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2927	It almost seems as if it is not possible to get out of the old debate on membership. There's almost something ritual about this when the Senter Party is pre-empting that we don't need the EEA Agreement. I feel like the Center Party is discussing something that no one claims. Of course, we will sell oil and gas, and certainly fish and goods, to our European neighbours without an EEA agreement, but when you say that we can fall back on the free trade agreement from 1972, I think you need to update a little bit. It covers goods and since 1972 exports of services have become more important and important. That's about 40 pst. of Norwegian exports from the mainland, and there is a development in which services and goods are intertwined in packages, so that having a trade agreement today that covers only goods is quite out of date. In 14 days' time, I and my colleague Gunnar Gundersen, together with EFTA colleagues, are going to Canada and Mexico, precisely because we are about to start negotiations on the update of trade agreements, and they are not since 1972, they are much newer, but are already getting out of date. Christian People's Party is the foremost defender of the EEA Agreement. It's their baby, but it should be the Central Party baby too, because it's the agreement that ensures the economic ties to the most important market, the European market, but that makes it possible for us to pursue the agricultural policy we want. It is strange that the Central Party does not see that if they succeed in this crusade against the EEA Agreement, the pressure on membership comes, and then agricultural policy will be included in this. When the representative Navarsete calls for the company that would end if we had not had the EEA agreement, I do not think it would be easy to find. Just bear in mind that Norwegian enterprises can compete with all public tenders placed in all European countries above a certain threshold. It must offer some greater opportunities than simply maintaining public services or making public tenders at home. We must not believe that we can retain all those benefits, and must not interfere with or comply with the legislation. That's the economics, but the other part of this is the security that it gives you and me as we move out into Europe. When we're tourists, we have the blue social security card that gives us the right to treatment where we are. I think it's an advantage, and it provides security, but it gives first of all an opportunity for everyone who grew up after 1992 to see Europe as an opportunity market as a student, as a worker, etc. We've lived with this in the Nordic region since 1955. I think it's completely unthinkable that we should remove it in the Nordic region, but it will happen if we leave the EEA Agreement. Then Nordic cooperation will collapse. It is strange that the Nordic Council regularly appoints a working group on a working group to identify cross-border barriers, all of which make it more difficult to act and live across borders. So, if you are a Norwegian woman, married to a Danish resident in Malmö and have to give birth to children, you are affected by a little different rules. We want to harmonise these in order to make it easier to live across the board. But as soon as you get to the south of Denmark, this recipe is for major problems. Finally, I want to say that in the case of social security exports, I think there is a reason there has been talk about this. It also began under our government, so there's nothing this new government has invented, or that Christian Tybring-Gjedde has done. A lot of people have talked about it. And it's probably a matter of living conditions adjusting it, but then it also applies to the Nordics. That's the point - you can't discriminate. I don't know if Norwegian diplomats or employees in Norwegian companies who travel in Europe would think it's okay to cut child welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2944	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2949	Odd Henriksen, the challenge of plastic. Plastic production in the world has increased from 1.8 million tonnes in 1950 to over 300 million tonnes today, with a total of 8 million tonnes per year in the sea. It is clear to many that these developments cannot continue. We in Norway are totally dependent on the productive seas; yes, the whole world depends on it. We have ambitions to be the world's foremost seamate. We know that the fish gets into plastic, but we don't know too much about what meaning it has for us human. Paradoxically, we find microplastics in a lot of products, from toothpaste and facial creams to clothing. The government has put forward a marine strategy and actively participates with other nations to highlight the consequences and possible solutions for plastic waste. Through the EEA Agreement and our good relationship with the EU, the government receives considerable financial support for the marine environment and the blue bioeconomy project, which the government has seen now when we have the Nordic Council of Ministers. Through this European research cooperation, the government has been given increased resources for microplastic research in order to seek answers to important questions for the Norwegian maritime community. This cooperation that Norway has through the JPI Oceans Secretariat in Brussels is a good example of how important the EEA Agreement is to us, including in such contexts. The government has put in place a large and important programme in an area that is very important, and we are involved in directing the efforts to areas that we think are important to us, but also to the rest of the world. The G7 countries have become aware of the work being done in this project, and there is hope that one will also carry on this good work in a larger global context. I also want to give tribute to the government for the Article 19 negotiations. Producers and individual EU Member States have sometimes criticised Norway for the increases in customs duties, among others. meat and cheese, which came under the Stoltenberg II regime, in January 2013. In order to liberalise trade in agricultural products, Article 19, it is understandable that the EU requires access to the market. For Norway, the outcome of the negotiations implies the establishment of duty-free allowances, or total duty-free allowances, for the export of some Norwegian products. Such duty-free allowances will give Norwegian industry better access to the EU market. In addition, there has been a limited increase in existing import quotas for some of the EU's products. Overall, the Norwegian import quota for meat is increasing, for example: from the EU, with 2,550 tonnes and below the quota of 3100 tonnes entered into under the previous government, Stoltenberg II. All in all, it is a good result, which is well anchored in our good and forward-looking agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2966	The central party management has said that the condition for joining the government is that the EEA Agreement be renegotiated, and that ultimatum creates some uncertainty as to whether our cooperation agreement with the EU will survive any government change in the autumn. And it's more than just trade in goods and tariffs that are at stake. Of everything we export, we sell 80 pst. to the EU. 65 pst. Of everything we buy, we also come from there. 80 pst. of our legislation comes from the EU – and 90 pst. of the legislation on food safety. Not only businesses, but also individuals and individuals will be hit if the contract falls off. For example, what will the Central Party say to the 14 000 Norwegian students who are now taking education in the EU, who will lose that right? The Nordics will lose the right to help under sickness, social security rights will fall away. What does it mean when the veterinary agreement disappears? Indeed, the border control of 170 vehicle combinations with fresh seafood each day will be reintroduced, and it will be devastating for Norwegian aquaculture. Norwegian companies lose their right to submit tenders in the EU. Neither the WTO nor a free trade agreement covers the free movement of persons. And agriculture, at least in my county, the North-Trunde Team, is totally dependent on the labour immigration you have in the seasons. The same applies to the food industry. There are tens of thousands of jobs in District Norway. It is exported for between 20 and 120 billion. kr in each of the major districts along the coast of Norway. In Nord-Trøndelag, we now have the largest growth in export value that we have ever had, and unemployment is record low, and that is because we reach with products to the EU market, and services are also increasing most. When it is believed that the EEA Agreement can be replaced by a free trade agreement, these are thoughts based on an out-of-date notion of market access. It is not about customs duties on cheese, nor about having tomatoes from Norway or from Spain; it is actually about safe framework conditions for hundreds of thousands of Norwegian jobs. So the line that the Center Party is now preaching, the crusade against the EEA, is actually a major threat to Norwegian workers and Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2977	I actually asked for the floor to talk about the EU's Energy Union, but first I would like to respond to what has been claimed by the Chair. First of all, Mr Hansen, who says that the trade agreement will not work, because now it is about services. You don't have to do that on services. Nothing prevents Norwegian companies from delivering services to the EU if we do not have the EEA Agreement. Does not Swiss banks provide services to the EU? Don’t banks in Singapore and ‘wide’ services deliver to European countries? Of course they do. All other types of service providers also provide services to the EU without having an EEA Agreement. So here's the representative, Hansen, speaking to the better-informed. Rodum Agdestein claimed that we have put ultimatum on government cooperation. As far as I know, we haven't set an ultimatum. On the contrary, the party leader made it clear a short time ago that the center party does not set the ultimatum. He meant that it would be to appear inferior. If there are government negotiations, it becomes equivalent parties, and in that case the Labour Party may get the ultimatum against the Center Party on the matter – what do I know? But at least there is neither the ultimatum nor the negotiations that I am familiar with. To the representative of Tybring-Gjedde, the right is that Norwegian companies did not export to countries of Europe before the EEA Agreement. Were we so little that before the EEA agreement came, there were no exports to the EU? Of course it was. And, of course, if one had not had the EEA Agreement, had a further developed trade agreement with the EU, as other countries have done that do not have a dynamic EEA agreement but of course export quantities to the EU. The EU has 200 trade agreements with countries other than those in the EU. Of course, there are huge exports from the countries into the EU, based on different trade agreements. And why do we pay attention to the United Kingdom today is precisely because the United Kingdom has left the EU. That's where we've got the brexit. That is why I am asking questions about the United Kingdom today and not about all other countries. I have also not mentioned the primary industries, which also Tybring-Gjedde took up and allowed me. No one's talking about them. I am talking about Norwegian business in general, and about the possibilities for Norwegian business in general, regardless of the EEA Agreement. There is a large yes-majority in this room – which is not in line with the Norwegian people, who are much more skeptical. We hear the representatives from the Labour Party and the Right talk so much about the EU that they have to lie down and wrestle in pain every night that we have not been a member. It's almost so it's oxygen to the right. Fortunately, we have a wise people who have looked for us not to be a member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e2995	The EEA Agreement is a dynamic agreement to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market and a more competitive Europe. The goal is more jobs for new generations of Europeans. User-friendly businesses need to be stopped. Through EEA cooperation, Norway has been actively involved in the fight against crime at work. At home, the government has taken important initiatives with the social partners. The fight against labour-related illegalities is also high on the EU agenda in order to ensure a level playing field in the EEA territory. The EU platform for black work is an important tool here. I would also like to stress the importance of Norway cooperating on measures to combat social dumping and labour crime with countries receiving EEA funds, a cooperation that is sought by both parties. Here the Norwegian Labour Inspectorate plays a key role in cooperation with the corresponding authority in several countries. The Minister of the EEA and the EU indicated that the government will promote a key message on the export of social security benefits. It is worth noting that there is also a discussion in EU countries such as Germany, Ireland, Denmark and Austria about indexing exports of, for example, child-responsiveness, and that this is now also a topic when EU labour and social ministers meet. We must avoid the free movement of labour stemming from the sustainability of our welfare systems. This year we can celebrate the 30th anniversary of the Erasmus+ programme. A whole generation of ‘erasmusians’ through various educational activities across borders in the EEA and the EU have brought Europe closer together. Currently, 14 000 Norwegian young people are studying in other EEA and EU countries. 5,000 of these study in the United Kingdom. That's how we want it to be able to go on. Many young people take this for granted. However, as the Council of State underlined in its statement: it is our EEA relationship that has facilitated the free participation of Norwegian youth in student exchanges with other European countries. I think many young people are not aware of what is actually at stake without the EEA Agreement. The EEA Agreement is essentially a columbi egg when, in a single agreement, we can regulate everything from student exchange to climate and energy agreements and market access for fish. That is why there is an agreement for the future, and that is why we need to do everything we can to further develop the EEA Agreement and the relationship with the EU that we have through this instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3012	The European investigation concluded that the internal market had a significant and lasting impact on the Norwegian economy and that without market access our GDP would have been lower. Our profitability and our wealth had also been lower. Productivity gains are the primary cause of the socio-economic impacts of the internal markets. If we were to realise what appears to be the Central Party's wish scenario, Norway's trade with the EU and other countries would take place under the WTO provisions, that would be what would be the regulatory regime. So it's something more than a mind game if you go out on that galaxy. This would also mean that Norway’s exports of goods to the EU would be subject to EU customs duties for trade with third countries. We would also be confronted with barriers of a non-tariff nature, precisely because the EEA countries and the EU area are trying together to limit barriers between these trading countries. Outside the EEA, we would not be part of the ongoing harmonisation and deregulation process in the EU and EEA territory. This would include, inter alia: have a significant impact on new emerging industries, for example: the network industry and digital services. When you can have a debate at this level in the national parliament, it's precisely because we've taken all of these benefits for granted and we think we can keep them if we isolate ourselves from Europe by cancelling or three out of the EEA Agreement. Norway had to negotiate bilateral trade agreements, tariffs and conditions on its own, including non-tariff barriers to third countries, i.e. individual agreements with the United States, Canada, China, etc. Norway would stand alone in such a process of negotiation and could not benefit from the EU’s negotiating power and negotiating capacity. In addition, this movement of goods, services, investment and labour must be disregarded. There are also other aspects, as the previous speaker pointed out, namely our participation in research and education policy, institutional cooperation and competition policy. Above all, since we now have the presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers, it must also remind us that this would lead to the fragmentation and isolation of Norway from our Nordic neighbours, because the border between the EU and the EEA region and Norway would separate us from our Nordic neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3027	Regardless of the kind of opinions you might have on the EEA Agreement and the EU, everyone will agree that it is important to have the best possible contact between Norway and Europe in the field of education and research. For a small country such as Norway, it is particularly important to participate in the large competitive arenas. Norway’s participation in EU Horizon 2020 is the clear most important international research policy cooperation for Norway, not only for Norwegian researchers’ access to research environments in EU countries, but also as an important door opener for Norwegian researchers to countries outside the European Union. It gives us access to knowledge and improved quality through competition in an international arena. Horizon 2020 has three main objectives. Building excellent research environments, creating a competitive business and meeting the major societal challenges. Norway must have ambitions to participate in meeting all these three priorities. For the Progress Party, it is important that Norwegian participation in Horizon 2020 is fully exploited and the government has put forward a strategy for Norway's participation in the programme. We need to ensure that teachers, students, researchers and businesses across the country are well aware of the opportunities for EU funding for their projects and help them to win the competition for funds. The Progress Party believes that we must aim for Norway to be among Europe's most innovative country. It is crucial for us to be able to have growth and well-being in the future – without innovation, no value creation. Therefore, it is also very positive that innovation is explicitly mentioned in Horizon 2020. Here, the Progress Party recalls that innovation can take place in all disciplines, and takes place in service production, in the public sector, in the health sector, etc., and not only in industry, industry and academia. Innovation is also about culture and presupposes a wide range of competences for citizens, not only in real science or technology, but also in the social sciences and humanities. Getting more humanists and social scientists to think more consciously about innovation and value creation is important. The Progress Party will therefore commend the Government for the humanities notification, the first political document to conduct a comprehensive review of the humanities field in Norway. In a global world, it is very important to understand the meaning of identity, values, religion, culture, ethics and language. ‘Culture matters’. Right here, the humanities play a major role, and the Progress Party hopes that several humanistic environments will also take an active part in Horizon 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3042	I have a few brief comments for co-representatives. Firstly, it is not appropriate for the Workers' Party to govern on any basis other than the EEA Agreement. That's what they say. Secondly, to the representative of Christian Tybring-Gjedde, who claims that the EU is not a peace project. It's not for believers. The reason is – the representative would like to say that he does not think it works as a peace project – that those who started the EU, i.e. The Coal and Steel Union started a peace project. They said that themselves, and it stands more to believers than the claim of Christian Tybring-Gjedde's representative. One might wonder why they started this Union for coal and steel and not for wheat and cheese. It's natural enough to relate to how to produce weapons. The establishment of the Coal and Steel Union and NATO took place at about the same time, and with many of the same politicians. They thought that both were necessary to ensure peace. You need military alliance, but you also need people to meet, so you can build enemy images. That is what the EU project is also about. Secondly, no one travels to the EU, says the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde. It's as funny to say as no one travels to NATO. No, but you travel to Europe if you live in another continent, of course. Then you visit many different countries, and there you have it very well, because there's an economy that works relatively well, compared to very many other places. It's peace, as it's been for over 70 years. That is why many people also want and dream of coming to Europe. There is no doubt that there are problems in Europe. There are major challenges in unemployment, there are social dumping, and there are many other challenges. I believe that the representative Per Rune Henriksen has a better explanation for many of the problems than the representative of the Christian Tybring-Gjedde and Progress Party, because it is also an economic policy where the elites have come out better than the working class, for example. The Center Party's Life Signe Navarsete was concerned about whether we were turning into pain. I'm not in pain, but it's very annoying for someone who's concerned about politics, not to be able to participate in designing the future, when it's simply having an impact on how we feel.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3057	I just have a few short, closing comments. To Svein Roald Hansen on climate and protocol 31: Our aim, our ambition, is to have a cooperation agreement outside of the four freedoms, i.e. in Protocol 31 – a cooperation that will be limited to the specific content of the agreement and that will be limited in time for the agreement to be concluded. So to the representative Simensen, who's pulling in the North Region policy: I'm very rich in the North Region strategy we've put forward. It does something that the previous government did not do, and which was one of my appeals when it came to the initiative: it links domestic and foreign policies, it links policies that make the continent and the population of the country relevant to the Northern Region policy, it makes the Northern Region policy relevant to the inhabitants of the country. The Simens Party has delivered the country's worst schools north of the years they've fallen. We're doing something about it for the sake of the youth of the continent, which is going to take the opportunities that come if they want to. To be clear about the brexit and the negotiations: I can agree with both the representative of Aasen and others that it is not the simplest. I will give a small example: first of all, our position is simply that we should respect the EEA Agreement and the obligations and rights we have there, while at the same time having as good an agreement with the United Kingdom as possible. One of the important discussions currently taking place between the negotiating parties is the order of the agreements to be negotiated. The EU says that we must now negotiate the financial framework, the framework for divorce, first, and then negotiate the framework for the new agreement that will apply after the breach, and then look at any transitional arrangements. Britain says no, that's not how we want to do it. We'll see what kind of agreement we can get before we can say anything about the financial, and then we'll see if there's a need for transitional arrangements. So it's not that much that's crystal clear yet. And as I said in the line change, this is one thing where there's new knowledge on the table every day, new understanding. I still believe that it was in the United Kingdom that you had no plan B when you went to a referendum. Plan B – you drive it and make it now, it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3072	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3077	I don't need to prolong the debate. I only have two short things to say in 1 minute. This concerns the representative Marianne Aasen and the EU and the establishment of the Coal and Steel Union. That's absolutely right, I'm not so blank that I don't know why it was established. But I also know why NATO was established, for a collective defence and defence to the east. NATO is maintaining peace in Europe, it is ensuring peace in Europe. As the representative also said, the EU is a talking club. She might be right about that, it's probably nice to talk to each other, but it's actually so that it's NATO that ensures peace. The EU is replacing the nation state – now I don't remember what to say. - Yes. No one goes on vacation to the European Union. No, but in the United States you say you go on vacation to Europe, and then we suffer a little because they don't know the difference between national states, and when the EU builds up the nation state, you can't go on vacation to Spain, France and Germany. It is the individual state that is important, the country we want to go on holiday to, the national culture we want to visit – for example. Greece with its culture, Italy with its culture. We do not want to travel to the EU, we want to travel to the nation state, and so should the representative of Aasen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3086	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3091	Cause, President, is this one three minutes I have?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3096	You've had five minutes, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3101	Yes, I've had 5 minutes. It's okay, then there'll be a short comment. That comment I will use to clarify what was said about the central party having informed that there is an absolute requirement in relation to the EEA. I did not find anything from October 4, 2016, but on October 5, 2016, there was a look-up in which Battle Violence Vedum announced a tougher fight, and that the Center Party would like to dump the EEA Agreement in favour of another agreement with the United Kingdom. It is hardly new that the Center Party would dump the EEA Agreement, but I find nothing in the look-up that I was down and writing out, that there is some ultimatum here, so I think we've held on to the same line: a strong resistance to override, a strong resistance to that we can't control our own bo, and that we have a work life like lir, and that makes very many trade union organizations now before the LO Congress announces strong resistance to the EEA Agreement. I'm surprised that the Workers' Party is not busy with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3109	I'm not going to extend the debate. I'm going to be very short and as short as the State Council's NTP bet in Finnmark, which is equal to zero. I have to say that it was a very elusive response from a state council on the NTP. People's feedback is sun-ready. It's deficient, and Finnmark is left out of the bet. Then you can say what you want about the NTP bet and the North Region bet being related to domestic policy – it's not in the jump, to put it straight out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3114	It was just to warn Simensen that there will be plenty of time to discuss the National Transport Plan in this Chamber in connection with other matters, and then I am not more liberal than I am really looking forward to seeing the Workers' Party's extra bet in the National Transport Plan when they come up with their proposal for a National Transport Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3119	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3135	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3144	I want to start by thanking the Committee for its good work and regretting that there is no more time to go through such an important matter and such a long setting with so many measures. Since I have limited time, as the rapporteur-in-Office, I would just like to say that the Committee has split into two groups – the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have moved on and discussed the plan and put forward a number of measures, while the Workers' Party and the Centre have made proposals to send the plan back and not go further into the individual proposals. As the situation is like that, I think that the Workers' Party and the Center Party will have to account for their positions, and then I will spend my time on Christian People's Party's priorities. I would also like to thank my colleagues from the Right and the Advance Party, and also the Department, for it is a lot of work, many proposals in an extremely important matter. Let me remind you what this is about. To use the numbers from Bufdir: One in seven children is hit by sexual assault or violence. That means in every class there are three – maybe four – children on average who are exposed to something so terrible. If we look at the numbers from the children's houses, from 2014 to 2016, there was almost a double in the number of interrogations. These are the most likely numbers of darkness that are beginning to emerge, and we're going to be happy about that, but it shows that the apparatus is not equipped to meet the enormous magnitude. We can't reveal enough, we can't help enough children. That's why we need an escalation, and that's why we need an obliging escalation plan. That was the background for the Christian People's Party in January 2015 to promote the representative proposal that the Stortinget later unanimously agreed to have an obliging escalation plan to combat violence and abuse. So the proposition came now in October, and those sitting in the hall know well that I was disappointed on the day it came. The decision Stortinget made, I believe went further than the plan, especially when it was economic. But there's something about shaking off the disappointment, moving on and working in the committee to try to get the result to the best possible. I believe that what is in the setting has been a very good result. That's why I'm proud and happy that we've managed to do so much. This is a special day for children who are subjected to violence and abuse. There are a number of measures here. At the same time, I would like to stress that we are not on target. To take the economic, which is always one of the most important things in such a plan: we require a binding financial commitment. I want to quote from the setting: ‘To succeed in combating violence and abuse, it is essential, in the view of the majority, to ensure action with a holistic approach and a long-term commitment to increased funding and targeting of funds. The majority therefore emphasises that the measures in the escalation plan should be followed up by fresh and targeted means. In addition, the majority points out that the plan is to be numerical in terms of amounts for the entire planning period.’;» In addition, we stress that the plan is to be implemented according to the model of the mental health escalation plan, which lasted over ten years. That means we're not quite in the goal. Of course, one is never quite in the goal of this field, there will be new measures, but that means that the government in the 2018 government budget will deliver its visions and its numerical amount for how much a person wants to bet on this during the planning period. It also means that for the Christian People's Party we have received binding comments here, and it becomes an important matter for the Christian People's Party for the autumn. Now, of course, I'm not going to go into every proposal, but I'm going to draw the whole thing out of it. We've been very busy getting better prevention. It's the most important thing, and there's health a key, whether it's a norm to get more health sisters to do home visits, to be able to reveal more, that one could ask pregnant women if they're being subjected to violence, or bet on dental health, which I know has an enormous opportunity to reveal. But it is also about better knowledge, about better child protection, about better family protection, about ATV offices and about the treatment of offenders. It's about detection, it's about getting more convicted, and it's about better follow-up. I will come back to several of the concrete measures later in the debate, but I would like to end my speech with a criticism of the Central Party and the Labour Party. I can understand the disappointment, for the same disappointment I had, but I believe that what they did in the committee at the end by sending the case back is not the most constructive, and that is not what will solve the situation for the violent children. I believe that if the Workers' Party and the Centre had moved in more concretely, I am sure that they had made very good proposals that we could adopt in majority, and that would make the situation even better. Finally, a explanation of vote: I address our proposals. In addition, we support the proposals No. 11, 13 and 14. Proposal No. 10 is taken care of by our proposal No. 6, so we don't support that. Proposal No. 12 includes all municipalities, which we think is too drastic, so we don't support it either.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3168	The representative, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, then explained the vote and mentioned the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3173	Today, the government has put forward a proposition that gives an overview of the current situation in the area we are now talking about, over actions, over the main challenges associated with power and abuse. This says the government and the supporting parties themselves in their comments, and I totally agree with that. This is similar to a message. It's a description, a problem description, an overview of one of the most serious crimes we have in society. But that's not what the Storting ordered by the government. After the good proposal from the Christian People's Party, the Storting ordered a mandatory escalating plan. Citation: ‘The Government is asked to submit without delay proposals for an obligatory and comprehensive escalation plan aimed at reducing the prevalence of violence in close relations and at strengthening the custody of children exposed to violence and abuse, following the model of the mental health escalation plan. The plan must ensure a multidisciplinary scope of actions, good coordination, and a long-term commitment to increased funding and earmarked resources.’.» That's not what we're dealing with today. In this order, there are some things that you have not received, and I believe the disappointment of the representative Robstad over the Labour Party and the Center Party can be sent back. Because I think, with the opposite sign: if we had been clear from Stortinget that this was not what we ordered, that we have greater ambitions on behalf of those we talk about, if the department and government had done a better job, we would have got a better plan. Only to show what was in the escalation plan for mental health in 1999–2006, how concrete he was: ‘The plan requires that it be invested for approximately 6.3 billion. during the planning period and that operating expenditure is to be increased to a level that is actually approximately 4.6 billion. expenditures above expenditure levels in 1998. Stepping up operating costs in this way, along with investment costs, will amount to approximately 6.3 billion. krones mean that it is to be used about 24 billion. higher levels of mental health protection during the planned period.’ Now I don't want to compare numbers, because that's not relevant. But the obligation that lies here can be called a stepping-up plan. The schedule has not been delivered. They've given us a description of measures and how the situation is. That's not what we ordered. And it's not just the Labour Party and the Center Party that are critical of this. Barneombodet describes it as a problem description, and UNICEF, Kripos, Save Children etc. points out that this is not what Stortinget asked for. When the Christian People's Party reacted in the same way as I did, and I actually thought that the plan should be sent back, I thought that this field was too serious for us to sit here with urgent work and pick up suggestions to check how we can create an escalating plan. The store ordered it from the government, and we actually expected that they had delivered it. That doesn't mean that this proposition isn't full of good descriptions, correct descriptions and good actions. Therefore, I would like to make a explanation of vote: why do the Labour Party and the Centre not vote for the proposals that are now before us? That's a simple answer to that. We don't want to legitimize this proposition as a stepping-up plan, because it isn't. That is why we are going to vote in favour of the proposals we ourselves have made, that the proposition should have been sent back to the government with notice of doing the job that Stortinget has ordered.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3192	The representative, Mrs. Lene Vågslid, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3197	Violence in close relationships has become a well-known concept – at a disadvantage because violence and abuses against children and families are increasing, at a good rate, because more reviews and greater transparency around the theme allow politicians to do something about development. Violence in close relationships has been and is an important priority for this government. During the large-scale period, we have presented an action plan to prevent and combat violence and sexual abuse against children and young people, which has also been followed up by an action plan. We have strengthened family protection, new criminal law is in place, and the penalties for serious abuse in close relations have increased. We have strengthened the children’s homes and made sure that all children at risk of violence are interrogated at the children’s homes throughout the country in front of the police station. This is an important offer for children and their relatives. In a safe environment and with different backgrounds, professionals are followed up in close cooperation with child protection. We have made sure that victim care offices are now established in each police district, an important support for victims of crime and relatives. The government is also working with a new Child Protection Act, which aims to strengthen the legal certainty of children and parents in child protection matters. Furthermore, the close police reform is being implemented, which will provide us with larger and more adapted disciplines that will be able to investigate and clarify complex criminal cases of violence and abuse, and the community reform will provide us with a better child protection service across the country to show that things are connected. It's not just thinking about assault and not seeing the big picture, and that's exactly what you've done to this plan. In the fight against violence and abuse, we need concrete action and willingness to give priority to all areas affecting violence in close relations. I am proud to be able to stand here today and debate the escalation plan against violence and abuse. Today, we are discussing a comprehensive plan of concrete measures in the field of health, school, municipal, child protection and justice – another measure taken by the government in the fight against violence and abuse. This is not just a document with political objectives and visions. This is a document containing more than 100 measures to be followed by the government, for which money has been allocated. After the budget agreement this year, we, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have allocated half a billion dollars to this, and we're not done. The plan shall be followed up in the coming years and the Right shall continue to demonstrate its ability and will to prioritise the fight against violence and abuse. There is no time to review, as the representative Ropstad said. However, I would like to highlight some important measures: We further develop the crisis centre offer, so that all victims of violence should have a good offer in each municipality. This shall include children, women, but also men and those with additional problems such as disability and intoxication. The government will strengthen the provision of municipal services through increased psychological and health services. We will develop a national training programme for municipalities to talk to children and young people about violence and abuse. Early dissemination of information to asylum seekers shall be carried out by dialogue groups against violence in reception. Earlier this year, the customs services were able to reveal that children’s ex-cloths are being seized at the customs office ordered by Norwegians from abroad. There were concerns from several teams about whether this is covered by the penal code, and the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have now made proposals in the escalation plan that the government should clarify the law that this is punishable. Unfortunately, the Labour Party wants to send the plan back. A postponement of the plan will put very important measures on hold. The victims for whom the plan has been designed need rapid implementation and the allocation of the necessary resources. Should the plan be returned, important actions will be postponed for at least one year. This is too serious for those groups affected by violence and abuse. A theme as important as this, with all due respect, should not be the subject of political games. So I want to make an explanation of vote. We are going to vote in favour of proposal No. 11 and proposals Nos. 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3237	First, to the explanation of vote given by the Right speaking women – it also applies to the Progress Party, just so it is noted. Children who are subjected to violence and abuse are the most vulnerable in our society. Violence and abuse are a major societal problem and are taking place in all walks of life and in all settings. This is precisely why it is so important that we now put in place a stepping-up plan with clear measures to combat and prevent violence, especially against children. The aim of the escalation plan is to improve the protection of victims of violence. This is done through clear priorities, including: investigation of violence and criminal offences, increase in public service competences and strengthening prevention activities. The escalation plan shows the challenges Norway faces in the fight against violence and abuse, in particular against children. I am pleased that the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party in the Committee on Justice have come up with very good concrete measures in areas such as school, healthcare, the justice sector and municipal responsibilities. Action by the victims in criminal matters has long been a high priority at the Progress Party. Children are often loyal, naive, and protective toward those in authority whom they trust. This exposes them to abuse and abuse. As politicians, we are responsible for protecting the weakest among us, our children, and the decisions we are making here today will be an important step towards combating child abuse. The focus in criminal cases has been on the criminal for a long time. That's why the Progress Party has been very clear that we need to focus on the victims, that it's the victims who get help and follow up. The Coalition of the Advance Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have proved to be clear, strong and solution-oriented in terms of victim care and the fight against violence against children during this period of government. One of the things I'm most proud of in this period, which we've managed to achieve for crime victims, along with our cooperation parties, is the removal of the limitation period in criminal proceedings for killing and serious assaults, the increase in the penalties for violence in close relations from 6 to 15 years, work on improving the compensation of victims and now also a national victim care service. We still have a long way to go, but I know that many people who are subjected to violence and abuse, now will get a little easier everyday life. The action plan should be seen as a continuation of the strong commitment to victim care in the 2017 budget. Children's houses have been reinforced by another 15 million. kr, and Stine Sofie Center gets 5 million. kr more in the operating budget. A national victim care service will be established in all police districts. Nineteen million. 35 jobs and 12 victim care offices will ensure that victims of violence and assault are treated in a much more dignified way than before. For the Progress Party, it is essential to establish that victims also have clear rights. As the rapporteur said, it will be impossible to explain all the good individual measures in this plan within the speaking time available to us. However, I would like to draw out a few points from the proposed decisions: where supervisors do not participate in child control/home visits, and where the health centre has actively tried to contact the family, health centres are now required to report concerns to the child protection service. [[...]] He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: strengthen the capacity and competence of the investigation of violence and child abuse, and strengthen children’s homes; ensure the safety of persons living on code 6, i.e. strictly confidential addresses, and see how the ban can be enforced more effectively in general; provide more and better use of reverse violence alarm; This is a small sample of the many measures mentioned in the plan. The escalation of violence and abuse must also be seen in the context of other reforms carried out by the government and the cooperation parties, inter alia. the police reform, the community reform and, in particular, the quality and structural reform of better child protection. The work of the committee has made a very good plan even better. It is important to have an overall approach to such an important theme as the fight against violence and abuse, and the plan contains a number of necessary measures to strengthen both the prevention and the fight against abuse. I am pleased that we have a government and a political majority who also see the victims, and not only focus on how the state can improve the situation of the criminal. That's the situation of the victims we're going to take the most seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3274	We are discussing today a matter of a new escalation plan against violence and assault. There's no doubt that we all think that such a plan is important to get in place. It is obvious that the involvement in the hall is large, and I would like to stress that many good measures have been proposed in the plan that is being discussed here today. As previously mentioned by the representative of the Member of the European Parliament, this applies, inter alia, to: the supply of young attackers. However, the centre party went in to send the plan back to the government and asked the government to file a case again. The reason for this is to a large extent the same as the working party speaker before I have pointed out. We all want a more binding plan when it comes to both time frames and funding. In addition, we would like to see the proposed measures in several areas. For example, when the plan identifies issues that are of relevance to the choice against: older people and caregivers, measures to tackle these problems should also be followed. This is a plan that will apply for several years in the future, because I think it is important that a holistic plan be adopted, that the actions taken are professionally justified, carefully evaluated and must involve duties. So, on the basis of this, the Center Party is going in to send the plan back to the government to set up a more mandatory and complementary escalating plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3285	First of all, thank you very much to the Christian People's Party and the representative Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, who takes on the leadership shirt, walks in the breeze and takes action. It is worth remembering today that it is less than 15 years since we discussed this in Norway – if we discussed it – as house noise. Left Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum was one of the first to talk about this as serious crime, and that as a society we have to stop calling it housewreck. It's not an internal matter. I think it is petty for the Workers' Party and the Centre to send this plan back today. Better is always possible, must be our motto. Then we can't wait, stop up, take some steps back and demand so much more. It's so typical of Norwegian to have to figure things out, that it has to be so perfect before you want to go on. Many children in Norway have an extreme need for this plan. I've witnessed a majority who's been willing to put 1 billion in the last couple of years. kr to get more health sisters and psychologists into the municipalities. Only in 2014 and 2015 there were 250 more of both. There are 500 more people who can help and take care of the children who have been assaulted. In addition, there have been a number of teachers, a number of kindergarten teachers, who can also help children. The important thing now is to give children a language, to teach them to be more good at setting limits on what's good, and what's unruly about adult behavior. Kids can do a lot more than we adults think they can. Preventing, in all municipalities, we get programs that provide systematic training is important. The municipality of Sortland has been identified as a good example — there are several municipalities. It is also one of the reasons why the Left wants a reform – not a municipal reform and the least possible municipalities, there is no point in it, but a welfare reform. Then we cannot have posts around children between 50 and 60 p.m., where the door is closed three and four days a week, where staff who are going to work with children do not have access to continuing training, to the competence to help children. We have so many challenges that taking a round of penalties in the bureaucracy and in the Storting makes no sense. Yesterday, most of Health-Norway was gathered at the Grefsenkollen on the initiative of the Children's Ombudsman to sign a declaration of violence and abuse against children. It's a historical statement, and it's the beginning of something. It shows the need to move on and not sit on the chair and wait for someone to do well enough to get started. Through research and knowledge, we know more and more about how many children and young people are exposed to violence. Up to one billion children in the world are exposed to it. It's a huge social problem. Still, only 37 countries in the world have a ban on the physical punishment of children, and violence is used in the mission. We have a lot of work to do. One final explanation of vote: the Left promotes two proposals distributed in the Chamber, proposals Nos. 10 and 11. One is quite similar to the Christian People's Party proposal relating to the children's houses, but we choose to tighten up to 16 years. It also has to do with the 16-year-old age of health law, and also with whom children's homes are to be targeted. For the left, we want to give priority to those under 16. As regards proposal No: 11, the Stortinget has previously asked for this. We promote it again and hope that we can get in touch with it. As regards proposal No: 12, from the Socialist Left Party, we will vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3303	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3308	This is and should be one of the most important things Stortinget is discussing this period, and I share all the criticism that has been raised against the document that came to Stortinget. That's not what the Big One asked for. It should have been sent back, but it should have been done immediately. Sending this back now, I don't think I'm helping. I don't think the government will learn from it, and I don't think the government will be able to sit long enough to implement and present a new plan. Therefore, SV believes that many good proposals have been made during the treatment that the case deserves to be voted through. It will help, and it will be there as an obligation both for the parties present in the government, for those who support them, and for the opposition now sitting and, hopefully, for the government of the harvest. For this must be done, it must, because violence is married, violence destroys people, and it is also so serious that children who experience being a witness to violence without water to be exposed to it, suffer brain damage and struggle with it all their lives. So this has to be stopped. When SV will vote in favour of the proposals today and also have its own proposals, there is no kind of approval of the document with which the government came, because it is far too non-binding. It is strange that these proposals on which the government parties are now in the position were not included in the proposition. Yesterday there was a meeting with the Children's Ombudsman. There were many bodies and parties, and all committed themselves to concrete action in this area. If there is to be concrete action here, it must be accompanied by money and it must be given priority in the budgets. It has been done for quite many years – quite much longer than the representative from the left was up here and said. Some of us have been working on crisis-centre issues since the early 1970s, so this isn't new, but unfortunately it's as topical. The proposals put forward by the SV, the proposals Nos. 12, 13 and 14 are necessary. As regards proposal No: 12, we want to correct it, by setting a sentence after ‘rus addiction’ and deleting ‘in all municipalities’. I hope that the majority can then join that too. Some of this is about some of the most serious issues we have. One is about women who live in drug addiction. We know that they are particularly vulnerable, and we know that their children are particularly vulnerable. They must have their own offers, they must have them. The second is the possibility to apply the reverse violent alarm, and much more needs to be used. In these cases, which are also some of the issues that we know lead to partner killing, it is so that you know who the terrorist is. You know that, and then you have to put a bell on the cats and make sure that it's the one who's a violent person, who gets limited space in society, and not the one who's exposed to violence. This needs to be used more, and of course it needs to be investigated so that it is legally safe, but it is absolutely necessary to ensure these women and the families who live with this terrible – year after year, as it is for some. It's almost impossible to realize that they're at all alive. So it's absolutely necessary to expand its use and apply it in several cases, and also see if you can use a larger geographical area as a constraint than what you have today. I also need to say that in some of these cases that have ended with partner drops, it turns out that the police have not used the methods and instruments imposed. Once I have asked the Minister of Justice if you, for example. the methodology tools available to you, SARA and PATRIARC, are the response of the government that it is up to the Police Directorate to give priority, that it is up to the police chief to give priority. It can't continue to be like that. The government must take responsibility for the use of these methods. Here the alarm goes, and sometimes it goes terribly wrong. This is of the most serious crimes, and some of them could have been prevented. I'm addressing the suggestions I referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3329	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3334	I want to start by thanking the Committee for the work they have done on the escalation plan, and particularly praise the Christian People's Party and the government parties for the work they have done on lifting the work on violence and abuse against children. I am registering that the Workers' Party and the Senter Party want to send the plan back to the government. I believe that this is a step in the wrong direction, and that it will delay the important work that has been started. I would like to remind you that what came out at the hearing was that they were consistently very positive that there was an escalation plan, that there was a good description of both the status and the challenges in this field, and that there were many good measures in the escalation plan. Few new measures have been introduced at the hearing. What has been critical is that there has been little commitment or that there have been too few resources. I would like to remind you that both the Workers' Party and the Centre have now had almost half a year to make it more committed, if they believe that this work is so important. For the first time, an escalating plan has been submitted in this field. The main focus of the plan is violence and abuse against children. It's a perfectly conscious priority, which I think is right, but that doesn't mean that other groups, such as disabled people, older people or men, are left out. The plans represent a significant budgetary commitment. It is set at over half a billion kroner with fresh funds in 2017, and the government has committed itself to escalating that effort forward in the planning period. We all agree that neither children nor adults should be subjected to violence. We politicians, whether it's in the municipality, government or this hall, have an important job to ensure this work. We can make a difference between those who are subjected to violence and prevent violence from happening. Violence has a high cost to society as a whole and to those affected. It costs in the form of an increased need for relief services, police investigations and sick leave, but above all, it is a high cost for those exposed. We know that many of them suffer from trauma and mental illness, reduced working capacity and broken childhood. With the cooperation parties, during this period of government, we have raised this field considerably. There has been an increased focus on children’s homes and medical examinations. The new penal code is in place and the penal framework for serious abuse in close relations has increased from 6 to 15 years. We are now setting up victim care offices in all police districts, and we are going to increase the use of the reverse violence alarm. For the first time, we have set up a training and mastering centre for violent children, which is incredibly important. We have had a historic commitment to both family protection, health and school health services. Those who have followed a little in this debate have come to realize that the most important thing we can do is to bet on prevention. The health stations have received a bet of over a billion during this period. It's a historical commitment to family protection, which has pinnacle competence in violence. This is prevention of helping children and vulnerable families. I will not underestimate that this is a challenging field, but it is a field where we still have to be ambitious. The committee position is moving us in the right direction, because our main objective must be to prevent violence and abuse. Early efforts are, as I said, crucial. I am concerned that parents will receive support and guidance so that they can strengthen their interaction with the children and provide them with a safe upbringing. That's good prevention. But I'm worried about the violence that children are exposed to online. We've seen a lot of nasty assault cases lately, and there's a lot of darkness. What's important is that the police work very deliberately on those issues. Every day we are reminded that too many children, young people and adults experience and live with violence. We have now received for the first time a binding plan of escalation against violence and abuse, and it commits us all. We need to strengthen prevention, and we need to cooperate more across agencies, departments and services across municipalities. We need to increase knowledge among those in contact with children and young people every day. Those who are exposed will be helped, and those who commit the violence will be punished, but above all, we should not forget that we all have a responsibility to ask the important and correct questions, so that children who need safe adults are seen and given help. As the violent eleven-year-old said to me when I met him, you have to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3353	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3358	It's said by the state councils and more that this is a holistic plan, a commitment plan. The representative Ebbesen says it's important that we take the whole picture with us. The plan shall, of course, be in order to reduce power in close relation. How, then, can it be that the government in the plan describes chosen against the elderly as a problem, without having a single measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3363	This is a stepping-up plan against violence in close relationships with a particular focus on what is about children, and is an order from Stortinget. However, this does not mean that violence against the elderly, against the disabled, against the less developed or against men is not important in this work – there are also several measures that go on that group. If this was so important to the Workers' Party, where is the Workers' Party's proposal to strengthen the escalation plan in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3370	The government received an order from Stortinget to create a holistic escalation plan. They're not ready. It's said by the Council of State, and also by the Christian People's Party, that this is a billion-dollar lift for children. I could read that on the Facebook page of the Christian People's Party this day. Horne talks about half a billion, the plan says 176 million. Of these, some are targeted at children and selected in close relationships, some are targeted at bullying, some are targeted at free incomes of municipalities, etc. In what way and where can I read about the half billion – or the billion-lift, if one will – that the Christian People's Party is talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3377	You can read about this in the budget agreement. There's half a billion there in addition to the 176 million. kr that the government has entered in its budget. This, therefore, is in addition to the historical effort between the civil parties in the last four years – in terms of both family protection, health and school health services, which we know are important to prevent violence in close relationships. I don't remember exactly the side number, but it's very clear that the government in the next budgets is committed to strengthening this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3384	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for a good report. I fully agree that it is an overall approach, and – as I said in my post – when I was as critical as I was at first, it was neither for action in the plan nor for the plan itself, except for the financial commitee. But I agree with the representative from the Workers' Party, who points out that there was something else the Stortinget ordered. As I said in my post, what made the Christian People's Party so offensive and going on was that we got very obliging remarks, which show both that there should be healthy, targeted funds, and that a figure-fixed amount for the entire planning period. The observations were also very clear – as was already in the plan – that it was to be reported in the annual state budgets on status, a report had to be drawn up, and not least a commitment to the state budget for 2018. But this is in so far as a 'agreement' or a commitment, as the Stortinget also said a year and a half ago. Can the Council of State promise me here and now – and reject the criticism from the Workers' Party – that when the budget comes to the harvest, she, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health, have been given such important decisions that they have to follow it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3393	I think the representative is fully aware that budgetary processes cannot stand here in the Storting and say something about today. The government is well-informed on the 2018 budget. But I am also very pleased with the promise that the Christian People's Party was able to make in the budget negotiations with the government parties this autumn. This is an important area for all four civil parties. We have shown this through the efforts at health stations, the efforts at family protection and also the work on health, at the children's homes and at the police. So I want to praise the Christian People's Party for the thorough work they have done. The decisions taken by the Stortinget today oblige the government to follow it up in that planning period. That is what I am in favour of, and I am going to do my part to follow up the decisions on the size of the store.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3403	I'm very happy about that. As I said in my post, at least I can promise that the Christian People's Party, either from the government or from the Stortinget, will use the harvest to ensure that the amount of money a pointer will be set aside for the planning period will be as high as possible, and that the bet will be as offensive as possible. I would like to jump to one of the proposals that the Christian People's Party has alone. I would also just like to make it clear that we had a lot of suggestions that I'm glad that we've backed into comments, which I expect the government to follow up. But one of the proposals that we did not reach agreement with the government parties on goes to the treatment and follow-up of young people or children who commit abuses, young offenders. We had our own representative proposal on that issue a year ago. Then we agreed with the government that this would be included in the escalation plan. Nevertheless, the government does not choose to go further with treatment for young offenders, although we know that it is extremely important to prevent, both for the individual human being, who is not being overcome again, and also to protect other children. Why does the government not want to go further with treatment or its own institutions for this group?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3410	It is mentioned in the escalation plan, including young people who overtake it, because we know that there is a group that it is important that it also gets help. We have had an investigation to see what offers these young attackers have today, and we see that we do not have a good enough offer for them. Now health regions have also been given the task of looking at how we can strengthen this work. I can assure the representative that this is also a group that the government is taking seriously, and that we are now working on following up. Because we know that if we manage to give help to the young attackers as early as possible, we can also prevent new abuses, and we know that many of those who are being assaulted will also become adult offenders.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3417	As members of the Health and Welfare Committee, we are constantly discussing social pediatrics, i.e. the special training of doctors to investigate child abuse. It's a challenge that everyone wants it, but no one will pay for it. The children's suite is formally located under the Ministry of Children and Family, while the games often work in a hospital. At the Grefsenkollen yesterday there was a social pediatrician who had a post, and there is no doubt that there is a new generation of doctors who have great enthusiasm for their job, but who must also use part of their idealism and leisure to develop the subject. More needs to be done, and more needs to be put into the system. It is important to reduce the time it takes to investigate, and it is important that it is done as quickly as possible after an attack. My question is whether the Council of State will follow up both funding from its department and the important education.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3422	This is an important area for the government as well. The Minister for Health, who is responsible for this, takes this seriously, and in his management documents he has given a clear message to the regional health companies that they are going to put in place. It is also important that we get trained enough doctors with special skills in this field. It's an area where regional health companies work, and they're going to deliver a plan during May to the Health Minister, so we get a good overview of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3427	The starting point for the matter we are dealing with today is that a unanimous increase decided to have a binding, comprehensive escalation plan, and that should be funding and increased earmarked funds. Then we got a plan that didn't contain it, and today it's going to be a majority for a whole series of other, completely concrete proposals. Then is my question to the Council of State: Will the Council of State follow up the proposals that are being adopted today in a better way than the proposal that was adopted, which is the basis for this matter, and where there has been justified criticism from the Storting against the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3432	Let me first point out that the government has followed up the decision in Stortinget to draw up a contingency plan against violence in close relations with particular regard to children. What has been the criticism is that it has been too low a commitment, and there has been too little resources. However, the challenges, measures and ways in which they need to be strengthened are part of this plan. So the representative knows very well that it's a budgetary work. The government presented a sum for 2017 that was strengthened due to the cooperation in Stortinget, and I am very happy that it came into place. The government has committed itself to following up this important area, and I can assure the representative that decisions taken in this Chamber will follow up the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3439	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3446	I don't need to defend why the Christian People's Party is in the mood, what is available from the majority now, and has not chosen to send it back. That's where I think the setting speaks for itself. But I want to stress – to answer the Workers' Party – that yes, there was something else the Stortinget asked for, but through the work of the Committee, I think we are very close to what the Stortinget asked for. However, we lack the economic commitment that we agree will come to the harvest. That means that in the 2018 budget there will be deliveries from the government. That's why I recognize, as I also said in my post: we're not 100 pst. in target. We'll never be in the field, but neither in the matter of just fulfilling the economics. But to what I think has been boring in this process: we as the Justice Committee, who have worked so much on the problem – and it is a cross-political commitment – are absolutely competent to promote the proposals and measures that are necessary. In today's vote, there are 33 proposals for Roman Numeral Decisions. In how many cases is there one has 33 Roman number decisions? In addition, there are several minority proposals from the Christian People's Party – proposals from the Left have been made, proposals from the SV have been made. Initially, the Christian People's Party had even more proposals for decisions that we would like to get through. Much has come in the form of a note – but if the Workers' Party and the Centre had gone into the proposals and dealt with them, we might have had a majority for more. As I know my colleagues from the Right and the Advance Party, they are committed to implementing good policies. If the Labour Party has good proposals – which they have in between – we will of course listen to them and take them with us. This is a cross-political commitment, which could have ended up in an attitude that would be even better than it is today. This is a field that is so serious and so important that I think one should have entered the process in another way. I think it would have been a better decision today. That's why I want to give tribute to Karin Andersen and SV, who have chosen a different approach – entered into it, made suggestions. I would also like to thank the representative, Mr Kjeseth, from the Left, for raising the health issue, because it is one of the most important things. The Children’s Ombudsman wrote yesterday that the Minister of Health should be Minister of Children, not to change posts, but because his field is so important to prevent. Let me take an example from what is suggested by the Christian People's Party – I can take no. 4, which goes on social pediatics, which are so important. We can adopt that today. We can decide that each child ward should have at least one doctor with special competence for children who is subjected to violence, i.e. social pediatry, if the Labour Party chooses to give it a majority. There are many other proposals that lie here, which could have been adopted, and that's what I want to challenge the Workers' Party on: now we have the opportunity to get even further. Can we not seize that opportunity, so that we get the best possible result?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3459	Yes, but good President, and my colleague, Ropstad: The Labour Party has been carrying a lot of times in this Chamber, which has been settled – and it is the jam that I have reproduced in this case. Let me give you a few examples: Over two years ago, Stortinget decided that the government would evaluate the restraining order. There I have received a reply that one has started with the idea of ordering to start it. And it's like a measure here today – as if it were something new. There are measures in the plan here today, to which the representative of SV also refers, to increase the use with the reverse electoral alarm. That's good, but it's the Workers' Party, at least twice before in this big time period, and it's settled in this room, and nothing happens. So I'm sorry, but I don't have so much faith in the impact of today's government as the representative of the Christian People's Party has. Therefore, I believe it would have been more important that the government itself had managed to deliver what they were going to Stortinget, than that we should sit in Stortinget and pick up proposals that could be adopted, which are not followed up. They say there are 500 million fresh people! I have read the budget agreement and I agree, so I would like to explain from here where the 500 healthy millions are, because I see 176. Yeah, it might sound like about 500 when you combine what was already there, and what's going on in the different departments, but we also see that today's proposition is 35 million. to prevent bullying against children taken as a measure against violence in close relations. So I'm not impressed, so I think it's good that we're not voting for the plan today. Because that is the plan we do not want to legitimize, although it is quite right that there are many good measures here. When we have a case in the Great Britain with 33 Roman figures, as Ropstad says, we know that the Christian People's Party has been involved in the matter, for the Christian People's Party for their involvement in the matter of power against children and power in close relations. Mr. Horne, I understand why there is the most focus on violence against children in the cause and not so much on the developing world, the elderly and others. It's because councillor Horne is the one in government who's best at this. But we've been calling for a whole-hearted and gathering effort from this Right-front party government for the entire accumulation period, and we don't think they're doing well. That's not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3472	Unlike the previous speakers, I believe that the government has worked well with the plan and presented a good plan, and I believe that the Justice Committee has worked well on the matter. I believe that we have reached a good conclusion with a number of proposals, including all that is already in the plan – no doubt very, very good. That is why I also want to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party representative in the Justice Committee, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, who has made many good proposals, which we have wanted to support, and which we support today, which is part of the position of the Justice Committee's majority. I also want to boast to the representative Margunn Ebbesen, who has been responsible for the government parties in the committee, and who has worked very well on this. I think we sometimes have to be able to knock each other on the shoulder, including from this pulpit, and not just come up with criticism, as many people often do. So to the Workers' Party: Before today we got the worst-founded mistrust proposal in many decades, as Storingsretten Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås said, and now we have had enough with an incredibly bad reason, and that is the vote for the Workers' Party. So this is obviously the day of the bad reasons. I feel that what lies in the representative’s reason for voting against everything is that you have to have an incredibly bad conscience and incredibly bad creativity when it comes to making your own policy. At least the Labour Party has told me – from the day one in the Judicial Committee – that this was the main cause of the Workers' Party, to fight violence in close relations, violence and abuse. And when we finally get a case, a plan, attached to this, which is very good, and which is presented, you choose to say that everything is wrong, that everything should be sent back, and you don't want to decide on the individual proposals. It is simply a failure statement from a party that claims that this was one of their most important things. I record that the Centre Party has also been involved in the process and chooses to go towards everything. We're about to be on the Justice Committee for four years. I think we've worked well together in a lot of things across the board, but when you finally landed this case, which too many of us have been incredibly important, the issues associated with combating violence and assault, then the Workers' Party and the Centre are totally wrong on the rise side. I can't believe it. This is the time's place of stomach when it comes to this topic. And I think it's sad that in this way you don't give your "cry" to all the good measures that are now to be followed, to help people who are subjected to violence and abuse in close relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3485	For the sake of order, it was not the Workers' Party that had mistrust proposals, but another party, if the President remembers correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3491	The proposition under consideration — Action plan against violence and abuse — addresses very important and serious issues. Violence in close relationships and violence and child abuse are unfortunately a major social problem. The consequences for those who are subjected to violence and abuse are extensive and have considerable personal and social consequences. Therefore, SV is surprised when the government, with its proposal, shows that they do not take these challenges sufficiently seriously. We in SV had expected the escalation plan to be in line with the agreed recognition of the gravity of the matter. Once again we see that the Storting must take responsibility that the government is trying to jump from. Today, the size will hopefully adopt a number of new proposals that will help to bring about real changes in the lives of those who are victims of violence and abuse. Despite the fact that there is much agreement on the description of reality, the plan is taken. SV admits happily that it had been tempting to join the Workers' Party and the Senter Party's proposal to send the entire package back to the government. But we're going to the end of the session, and the matter is overdue, and therefore we want to get through the measures that, after all, exist and that are good. They can contribute in the right direction, as the Council of State also said. SV believes that the escalation plan shows the intentions, but it suffers from too little concrete, low commitment and no good response to when and how the necessary actions are to be implemented and financed. So we want a stepping-up plan that is strengthened, that actually brings reduced violence in close relationships, and that leads to children who are subjected to violence and abuse being well cared for. Then there is a multi-disciplinary, coordination and financial commitment that needs to be put in place. Among other things, I can refer to Actis’ hearing opinion, where they provided very clear feedback on the plan. The representative, Karin Andersen, took up some of the important suggestions that have been made. Of course, they are all in agreement. What matters to us is that the Council of States, which has talked about commitments, now knows its visitation time. The commitments will be of little value if, at the same time, she is constantly to reserve a budgetary process in which the current government does not show the willingness to give strong enough priority to the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3504	Based on ‘better is always possible’, this plan could have been better, but we're getting a good move on. Then we also have to see this plan in conjunction with some other decisions that have been taken in recent years. The majority have adopted a escalating plan for drug use — 2.4 billion. DKK over five years. Prevention is one third of that plan. It will also help children who are related. Only in my county, Uppland, and in Hedmark, there are in total more than 4,000 children who are related to addicts. They need to. They should not be so touching, not take so much responsibility. Some of them are also being assaulted. The plan of escalation against violence is a contribution. The latest in the Daily Newspaper today, I read that the four parties agree on a historic promise for mental health care related to children and young people. The escalation plan for drug use and mental health — this was something the red-greens for eight years did not grant or set in motion any escalation plans for. In 2016 we also received Norway's first youth health strategy, and in 2015 the Workers' Party did not vote to establish it. So where is the Workers' Party actually in discussing the future? You don't want to touch today's municipalities, you don't want more of what we know works, you want to prevent and teach children a language, you want to use certified programs, like you do in Blackland. It is as if the Labour Party has put on a ‘stand city’ button, and it will not be better then. So I don't quite understand where you want to go. So a little grant, $7 million. kr annually to Center for Cyber and Information Security at Gjøvik, SEK 5 million. kr from the Ministry of Justice and 2 mill. kr from the Ministry of Health. They contributed to an important investigation when the infringement case in Bergen was recently rolled up. Networking can also lead to physical abuse, and adults can hide digitally. There are important investments that we are now making, including in the digital competence, and bringing the digital competence out to the police and health services is important. Indeed, police reform is also an important contribution to putting these challenges on the agenda, creating skills and mobility in order to prevent, but also in order to investigate and thus to punish them more correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3515	I said I should go into some of the measures, so I have to do it. There are some measures that I have extra expectations for that are contained in the proposals for Roman Numeral Decisions, so I just want to briefly say a little about them. As far as IV is concerned, we are very clear that we want clearer education for children in order for them to know the limits and know what is allowed and not allowed. One of the very clear feedbacks in this field has been that children who have been subjected to abuse and violence have thought that it was completely normal. That's why we point out that you should already learn about the body and the limits of being able to understand that this is wrong and hopefully more quickly reported from, and in any case become more certain that this is wrong and could get help. V and VI are about asking pregnant people if they are exposed to violence and that it should be a home visit. I think it's one of the most important things to establish a trust relationship, so hopefully you can get in as early as possible. X is about developing a separate strategy to prevent and combat Internet-related abuse, which is also being implemented by the representative, Kjeseth. With regard to the development that one sees, it is extremely important that both police and school are clear in order to provide children’s skills, child safety, so that more people can be avoided. XII operates on a certification scheme. A little tabloid said: EU-approved car every two years, why not ensure better certification or approval of adults working with children? I stress that it must not be bureaucratic, but I think it may be important to raise the focus on such an important issue. I believe that this is very important that I am excited about following up. Then I need to get back into the criticism of the Workers' Party. When you say that it's the government that has to deliver, you say at the same time that you have more confidence in Solvency Horne and the Department than you have in your own work. I believe that by having this review I am very proud of much of the Christian People's Party together with the Right and the Advance Party have delivered in the setting. I think, as I said, that if we had worked with the Workers' Party, we would have gotten even better. In the case of the criticism, about 500 million. kr, I would like to have more than that. But I can show that the children's houses got 35 million. Dr., attorneys and police investigators got 50 million. kr, Kripos got 30 million. NOK, ATV received SEK 10 million. NOK 9, Stine Sofie Center received SEK 9 million. NOK 34 million was spent on family protection. NOK, child protection received SEK 15 million. NOK 150 million was paid to the health sister. SEK, medical examinations in children’s homes received 13 million. NOK 5 million was paid to young attackers. I got $7 million for cyber. kr. In addition, if kindergartens — which are extremely important — were added and more employees received 172 million. Now, kr, you're on a new 500 million. SEK in addition to the 176 million. kr. So there's been a strong bet, but it has to continue and become even more offensive for the rest of the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3532	The representative, Lene Vågslid, has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3537	We can work together – I have more faith that we can achieve better cooperation in the fall than we now seem, given that many of the proposals we have actually accepted in this Stortinget, are not followed up, which we have also formulated in connection with the call decisions we have sent. It's just to keep working on the good stuff. Sending the plan back again and asking for a new plan had not stopped the actions – in no way. As the Council of State and several of them say, there's money in the budget, so it's not a problem in a way. What is the criticism here is that there has not been a stepping-up plan, when the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have to propose in the Stortinget today that one should come back to it in the 2018 budget. It's an annual budget work. It is ordinary budgetary work. Where is the escarpment then?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3544	The criticism that comes from the Workers' Party falls on its own unreasonableness. They themselves made a strategy in this area in eight years. The step-up plan that the government has now presented to the Storting is based on the strategy put forward by the previous government, as well as a commitment strategy and the work we have now done. I have to say I am surprised when the representative Awake! is not quite able to carry the calculator, in addition to the 176 million. $35 million. kr to Statens Barnehus, 30 million. NOK 50 million for the Kripos section. SEK to several prosecutors, SEK 13.2 million. SEK for medical examinations, 150 million. DKK 10 million for the strengthening of health and school health services. SEK 2 million for assistance to young attackers. kr to incestsenter, 10 mill. NOK 9 million to Alternative to Violence. kr extra to the Stine Sofie Center, SEK 25 million kr for capacity increase in family protection and 9 mill. kr for capacity increase in the protection of the family under the ecclesiastical offices. When we add up, it's 519.2 million. kr. So the government delivers, in cooperation with both the Left and the Christian People's Party, who have been with and strengthened this escalation plan. Then there is a plan that follows the budgetary years, and we have to come back to the individual budgets for further strengthening. I just want to get into a couple of suggestions that Ropstad was also interested in. Early education is important for children, so that children know where the boundaries go. I was at the Grefsenkollen yesterday and listened to the rapporteur in the municipality of Sortland. There is a municipality that has really taken this into account, and that has training children from infancy in sexuality and setting limits. We also know how important it is to have midwives and people working in health centres who dare to ask the important questions. They have a duty to ask a question about violence when they come to investigate when they are pregnant. But we know that there are many people who hesitate to ask those questions. Therefore, it is important for education that those who are going to work with children and young people have this knowledge. I mentioned in my post that I am concerned about the evolution we see on the Internet. As parents, we have a responsibility to teach our children good rules on the Internet and ask questions about what's going on online, just as often as we care that they have their helmets on when they're out riding bicycles. It is important that the police have resources — both people and tools — to be able to catch the attackers and really be preventive.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3567	I didn't intend to take the word any more in the matter, but I think the development got a very unfortunate angle. When it is claimed that the government does not take violence and abuse in close relations seriously, yes, I must say that there are some who have not got along with us how we have worked, especially in the Justice Committee, in this area. I would like to refer to some of the government that has actually started. One thing is all the good measures that are in the plan here and that we have through the process as proposals for additional decisions. Family protection is strengthened, especially the work of family protection against violence. Health and school health services are strengthened. The framework plan for teacher training has been amended to ensure that teachers and kindergarten teachers are given knowledge of violence and abuse. National guidelines for the provision of maternity care, for the detection of violence, have been introduced. I could have framed many, many different measures that show just this: the government takes this seriously. The government parties have taken this seriously all along, and we have worked politically well in the Justice Committee in this area. No, I think it has also seemed as if the Workers' Party and the Centre's party in this matter really fail the weakest. It's the weakest in society we want to strengthen through this plan, and it fails the Workers' Party and the Center Party. This is a public health problem. That is why it has been very important for the Workers' Party to take that responsibility. They want to be a responsible party. I cannot say that the way they act in this matter shows that the Workers' Party is a responsible party. Yes, it's election year, and then you probably need to criticise the Right and the Advance Party as much as possible on any occasion. There is a very good job done by the case rapporteur, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, from the Christian People's Party, in this matter. Here, the Workers' Party and the Centre could have been involved in putting a good stamp that could have shown that they too are concerned with this important area. They haven't shown that with the handling they've had here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3580	The Labour Party is voting against this plan because we have higher ambitions, and because we want more than what's in it. We have now heard the government parties talk about this plan being good and showing a clear direction. Yeah, that's a good plan, and that's what it is. The Christian People's Party has delivered. The Christian People's Party has worked in the Committee to try to improve a bad plan, which they also agreed at the very beginning, to become something better. It's supposed to be the Christian People's Party, they've done a good job. This discussion and this debate have only assured me in my decision. The obligations in this room have not become clearer. On the contrary, they have become more wretched and worse. The entire round of questions agreed to obtain clarity from the Council of State. They asked about concrete appropriations for concrete things. The answer? It's budgetary issues, the Council of State, so I can't say anything about that. The government has not done its job. It is mentioned in the plan, said the Council of State, to be included in the ordinary budgetary procedure. The Labour Party has voted in favour. All the measures listed by the Council of State are measures the Labour Party has also voted in favour of in the budgets here on the Stortinget. There's fresh funds in the 500 million. kr that has arrived, we ask for. The lack of commitment to this plan is actually expressed in the Roman Numeral Decision XXXIII. Now I didn't get it up here on the pulpit, but there's something saying that you want to make sure that there's money in the state budget for 2018. This means that until 2018 no action shall be taken in place until a budget decision is taken on it. Many of the measures included in this plan are ongoing services, ongoing measures, facilities for use by children and police. We are for that. It's very good, and it's very good that we've got the strengths in the areas we've been given, both in the investigation and in the detection of violence against children. The left calls it petty. It's the first time I've experienced that it's petty to have bigger ambitions. But we do, and we're very comfortable with that. When Margunn Ebbesen says that the government has taken its job and worked well and then refers to the work in the committee, yes, it says everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3595	The government has not done any good work on this matter, but the committee has done so. That is why SV is going to vote in favour of the proposals, because we believe that it can commit us the most, and that is why we consider this differently from what the Workers' Party and the Centre are doing. We believe that this commitment should be taken on by sea, and that commitment should be taken on by all parties, and implemented. Because the government hasn't done it, the Storting must take that job. Someone needs protection, and they need it now. It is perhaps the most important thing we have to take care of everyone first, that those who are in real danger, both young people and others who are subjected to violence, actually get protection. That is why there must be enough protection in all public authorities when the alarm goes out. It's not like that today. It doesn't happen anywhere. Not even the police have methods that guarantee it, yet, and it's a heavy responsibility for the government. Several people have been up and talked about this with training. At the SV national meeting, this was one of the main themes, that children and young people need to learn about sexuality, about the body and about the good, but also about the bad, so that you can set limits, but also have a positive attitude towards your own body and your own sexuality. Now that we're going to discuss education and talk about it in school terms, I hope Stortingen remembers what we've said in this case. We've all been aware of how vulnerable our kids are now to online abuse. Perhaps one of the most important things we can teach our kids and be concerned about in the future about school is that they get to learn critical sense and how they can be tricked into quite serious online accidents. The web is very fine, but it can also be very dangerous. It has these Dark Room cases and what the police have revealed, shown a small tab of. I'm passionate about kids learning to read, to write, to calculate and all the other funny things, but learning to take care of their seas in a world where one can be tricked into traps that can hurt a serious for life, I think is one of the most important things we have to be aware of when we're now going to discuss evolution in the future, also for school. I ask the Stortinge to remember it when the school debate goes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3606	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3612	To the smallness I accuse the Workers' Party of: they could use the opportunity to show what ambitions they actually have, but it does not come out. One just says that one has voted for this over the years, but does not show any ambitions or bets beyond that. In addition, when the Labour Party seeks to vote against a youth health strategy — the first in Norway — they do not show any ambitions at all. One must look a little in the mirror and see what it was that one did when one himself sat in government. In 2013, there were therefore nine fewer health sisters in Norway. It is responsible for the Central Party and the Workers' Party. Already in 2014 there were 112 more, and in 2015 there were 135 more. That's because the four parties that now have a majority, put it at 500 million. kr. There were several midwives, and there were several psychologists. We haven't got the numbers for 2016 yet, but we've put 500 million. And then we're getting closer to a volume.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3619	I will try not to extend the debate, but the contribution to Mr Henriksen's representative cannot be undisputed. When she didn't have the quote or the opportunity to quote XXXIII, I'd like to do that. It is not a matter of setting aside funds in the 2018 budget. XXXIII states that in the 2018 budget, the government will make proposals for financial commitments and designation for the planning period, which will last until 2021. That's what's been the whole topic when we've discussed it in the committee. This means that we are entering into normal budgetary negotiations – and that is exactly where the Council of State is right – one has to come up with the annual budgets, and that is what it will be. But we demand ambitions for the entire period because the matter is so important, and because we want to rise from the level we are at, to a much higher level, and therefore it has been punk important for the Christian People's Party. But as I said, it also means that we have a job to do for the autumn, and we are prepared to go into it, and I am disappointed that the Workers' Party has not been willing to go further on the track to push either the amounts up or the measures further, for which we could get a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3626	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3642	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Green 10 minutes and members of the Government 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a sequence change be made of up to three lines with replies to the main speakers of the parties and six lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3655	Norwegian food production and Norwegian agriculture are fantastic and have adventurous possibilities. The Committee's approach to the agricultural notification is a step towards a new spring for Norwegian food production. That's good. It is good because Norwegian food production is modern, and it is good because Norwegian farmers are the coolest people in the country. I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation on a comprehensive issue. The result is a clear statement, and the Committee has said that: «The processing of the agricultural notification by the big business shall lead agricultural policy and agricultural operations in the years to come». The setting is so comprehensive and detailed that it can be on its own. So it's Innst. 251 S for 2016-2017, which is the country's agricultural policy. In essence, the Committee has a different policy from that of the Government’s big news — some places as a single committee and other places in the form of different, varied pluralities. In sum, however, I would argue that it has been a very long time since there has been such broad support for the main features of agricultural policy as we see in this position. The government proposed to make cost-effective food production the main objective of agricultural policy. The Committee does not support this. The majority of the Committee says that the main objective should be to increase Norwegian food production on the basis of Norwegian resources. The government wanted the market to decide where to locate the power-feed-requiring productions. The multiplicity of the Committee does not support this. The government would terminate the trigger time. A collective committee went against this. The government would terminate the early retirement scheme. The majority of the committee rejected this. The government would eliminate the market balance for cereals. The plural number of the Committee has turned down. The government would clear the market balance for eggs. The plural number of the Committee has turned down. The government would clear the market balance for geitem milk. The plural number of the Committee has turned down. The government would clear the apple market balance. The plural number of the Committee has turned down. The government would eliminate the potato market balance. The plural number of the Committee has turned down. The government would give priority to supporting cultural and inland pastures. The committee said no. The government would have 10 milk quota regions. The majority said no to this and went in for 14 regions. The government would implement a comprehensive buy-in scheme for goat's milk. The plurality of the Committee has strongly defined the arrangements. The government wouldn't have a target for the production and consumption of organic food. The multiplicity of the Committee requests that today's eco-objectives be removed, but at the same time asks a government to come back with a new and up-to-date eco-objective. Some weeks or months without an eco-objection, at least I live very well with. Of course, the work of the Committee is not just about stopping government proposals. In order to give a comprehensive overview of the Committee's views on agricultural policy, one refers to the setting, and I would like to address the proposals put forward by the Central Party either alone or in conjunction with other parties. We have also been given important leadership in future agriculture. I want to draw five points. Firstly, the following offensive income targets are covered by a single committee: «the income target shall be to reduce the income gap between agriculture and other social groups». This is a clear strengthening of today's income targets, i.e. farmers must have more in income growth in crowns than in other groups, because that is the only way to reduce the revenue gap. The Committee also notes that income is the main instrument for achieving the objectives of agriculture. Secondly, the Committee will facilitate investment and strengthen the economy for all types of use. The Committee believes that investment firms should also be targeted at small and medium-sized applications. The Committee draws particular attention to the need for investment in milk by between 15 and 30 cows. In addition, the majority of the parties to the agricultural negotiations are asking for clarification of the question of introducing an operational difficulty. Thirdly, a single committee of the government is asked to put forward a fund scheme in agriculture. Fourthly, it is gratifying that a joint committee opposes the imposition of a levy on the biological processes in agriculture, as proposed by the Green Tax Commission. Biff tax is not good climate policy. Fifthly, the majority call for a better follow-up of the government's soil protection strategy. The management of the land resources shall, in the Committee's view, have an eternity perspective. Of course, the center part is not 100% satisfied with this setting. We should have wanted a separate investment package for agriculture. We should have wanted the Committee to be more positive about the proposals that industry has made to modernise the market balance for eggs and meat. The centre party should have wanted the Left not to go along with the government party to prevent fresh money for climate action in agriculture. The centre party should have sought a practice of customs protection which took more account of Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian interests. The centre party should have wanted the committee to go in for the emergency storage of food grain, and the centre party should have wanted the majority to agree to introduce a law on good trade practices. However, the centre party is well pleased that the Stortinget has taken such a clear grip on agricultural policy. In such debates, it may be quick to dig into details and individual matters. The big question is, why is it so important to have a national food production? In our view, it is an important part of our preparedness. Farmers and soldiers are part of our preparedness. The self-sufficiency of food needs to be strengthened. Norwegian food production should also secure Norwegian consumers environmentally friendly and safe food. The value chain for food is our largest continental industry, a green value chain that ensures income for the country and work for people on the garden, in the food industry and at the trade. If we are to manage to increase Norwegian food production, we must have farmers throughout the country, and we must use the agricultural area throughout the country. Where food is grown, it will feed, and where there is a plough, there will be ploughs. The government's struggle to liberalise and centralize agriculture is not viable. It's immature and old-fashioned. My wish is that the farmer who uses the garden resources to grow food will be able to do so without having to listen daily to the garden being too small, and that he will have to grow larger no matter how large the garden is. We have to value the pawn's work higher, and we have to give the Norwegian pawn a new spring, because we need food from Tana. We need food from Lavangen. We need food from Helgeland. We need food from Steinkjer. We need food from the Holtål. We need food from Tingvoll. We need food from Lærdal. We need food from the Women's Heath. We need food from the dead. We need food from Alvdal. We need food from Ullensaker. We need food from Maridalen. We need food from Skjeberg. We need food from Stokke. We need food from West Fossen. We need food from Vinje. We need food from Gjerstad. We need food from Lveggal. And we need food from Dalane, Jären, Ryfylke and Haugaland. And the food producers need politicians who believe in Norway as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3742	The representative Geir Pollestad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3749	After three years with this government, optimism is back in agriculture. Income growth is good, self-sufficiency is growing steadily, the number of bankruptcies is record low, and young people rates in agriculture. My question here is the same as I got at an agricultural conference in Ørsta: What makes the Centre Party and the Workers' Party not want to recognise that things are going better in Norwegian agriculture now?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3754	I enjoy everything that goes well in Norwegian agriculture – of course I do. But I'm very concerned that the Right Party and the Advance Party are so satisfied with the efforts they have made, for farmers who have an average dairy farming in Norway have experienced that this government has taken 15 500 kroner from them to finance the larger farms. It bothers me, and it's too easy to point to short-term effects, because it's not this government's merit that TINE is doing well, and that the dairy farmers get a very high payment, which has contributed positively. We have to think ahead and say, "What is going on in order for us to have an agricultural holding in the whole country in 10 years, in 20 years and 30 years?" Then we can't afford to be as happy as the Right and the Advance Party are. As a result, there is a need for a change and, therefore, there is a need for a clear setting, as the Committee has provided today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3759	Doomsday prophecies have been quite common in international politics for some years. We know it best from the United States. However, in recent years Norway has also become more and more common, and especially in agricultural policy. On 4 September 2013 on Twitter, a week before the fall, Geir Pollestad released a picture of a nearly empty plate, but with a couple of dozens of black peppercorns, with the text: «Don't let this become future Norwegian cabbage. #food elections» Can the representative Pollestad explain how it has now gone after four years with the Progress Party in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food? Has it been possible to obtain sheep and cabbage?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3764	At least we still have the pepper intact, because the will to import food – and food imports – has increased. I also believe that the Stortinget has taken important steps to limit the Right and the Progress Party's impact on agricultural policy. These have been important measures. At the same time, I am concerned about the long-term consequences of the policy being pursued, where a takeover of money, budgetary resources, from the small and medium-sized used and moving over to the large ones. The long-term consequences of this would be that we no longer have an agricultural holding in the whole country, and if we are to achieve the goal of increasing Norwegian food production, we also need to drive the most pig-grown areas and the most difficult areas. For example, for this reason: Regrettably, the Right Party and the Progress Party in the setting are not included in the wording of an operating difficulty, which I think is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3771	Milk production provides active agriculture throughout the country. I agree with the representative and the Central Party on the comment that a large reduction in milk quotas is not desirable, but I do not agree that there are any other criteria that can be taken into account, as the comment states, because agricultural policy has little to do with school policy and transport, which have other boundaries in terms of administration. But if we look further in the note, ‘predictability’ is important to the representative Pollestad. Predictability is therefore more important for the Centre Party than for the milk to go from the districts to the central districts. I am very pleased that the representative mentioned Skjeberg. I had hoped that he had mentioned Fredrikstad, which is an important milk producer town. Then my question is: why is predictability more important than standing up for districts and agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3776	I believe the representative must be happy that I am not including all places where food is produced in Norway, but limit myself to a selection of 22. When this is true of milk quota regions, our view was that we wanted 18. I'm very happy that it didn't go down to 10, because it would have very dramatic consequences. But then we also open up to adjust the limits between the quota regions within a number of 18, and I don't make it physically possible to say that it's easier to divide the country into more distinct regions when you're dividing it into 14 than if you're dividing it into 18. I find that very difficult to understand. And then we've seen some signs in the press about how these regions are thinking, and there are clearly some options in the back. I am very excited to see how it is, and I hope that this process will at least be real.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3785	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3791	First of all, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for the work that has been done, but I would also like to thank the other parties represented in the committee, because I think this has become an attitude that is worth reading, and an attitude that is worth changing when farmers are going to negotiate their settlement. There I fully agree with the rapporteur; these are very important signals. In contrast to the big picture, the setting draws up the lines that a largely united political Norway wants. We have a great starting point, and that's what makes many people so excited about this policy area, and that also makes us say that this is one of the most important things we can do, namely to increase Norwegian food production, which has so many good side effects in it. It has distribution policy effects, it has regional policy effects, in the sense that we make people live all over the country, but for the future it also has significant climate effects that we will be able to benefit greatly from. Not least, we know that this engages in a whole value chain. We're talking about a considerable amount of employment. I believe that this is one of the reasons why the Storting is so massively receding and saying that we have rarely seen a department's master document, that is, the agricultural message to the Ministry of Agriculture and this government, which looked to the degrees being rejected, and where the foot is being repressively lowered for the central basic ideas. When things go well for Norwegian agriculture, I dare the claim that it is not because of the government, but it is despite the government that it is doing well. We also see a political ideology that collapses in many ways in its encounter with the Stortinget. In my view, a planned massively liberal agricultural policy has had its total collapse – also described as a gastric plaque. In many ways, it's a little sad that you have to spend so much resources in most of the parties to fight back, when we know that instead we should concentrate fully on creating a policy that helps us actually to increase production beyond today's. That's a great starting point. Just a few years ago, there was a reverberation that farmers were some oversubsidized things that almost didn't do anything. We feel that it has turned around. Consumers’ demand for Norwegian food products has increased. It is also true that if you really want to embellish yourself with labour productivity, you have to point to the Norwegian farmer. On the mainland we have seen a growth in labour productivity that is well over 4 pst. average per year over the last 10 years. So we have a great basis for contributing to increased production across the country. From the point of view of the Workers' Party, it is important that we maintain the differentiated instruments, that we maintain a well-functioning import protection, that we take care of the small, medium-sized and large ones, that we circle around the market regulation that actually works very rationally, and that is very much self-financed by the farmer. It has made me ask many times, especially after the hearing here in Stortinget where we had some and 40 pieces inside, and everyone was almost repugnant, with the exception of one, and he thinks I've turned in retrospect: what's wrong with the joint purchase? Swallow the private individuals who compete with the joint procurement, circle around the agreements and mechanisms that are there – good, rational and in my opinion social democratic governance, rational, good and solid work done by means of these market regulation, and which one wants to tear down. I could say the same thing about the other big ones, TINE, Nortura and many of them that make up the base of this. It's the Norwegian model where we can connect both cooperatives and the private and the public in a way that makes us get a lot out of the crowns, that we also get high animal welfare and good food, good and healthy food. I am disappointed that government also insists on attacking what I see as very important welfare and leisure arrangements for this industry. What kind of signal is that for the recruitment? The farm layout stands at the door, and there are many signals to take with it. I am pleased that the government's policy in this way has been rejected, and that we can continue to create a high-growth nourishment of what many want more of. So a small explanation of vote on the part of the Labour Party: we are dealing with the proposals made by the rapporteur. As regards proposal No: 12, presented today, the Workers' Party will support it. Proposals Nos. 13-22, from the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3810	Does the representative wish to address the Workers' Party's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3815	I don't have to do that, because Geir Pollestad has already done that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3820	That's right. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3827	I think the best contribution to recruitment is to produce results for the industry. We also see that recruitment is increasing dramatically, we are producing results in the vast majority of areas. When Storberget is so negative, I think back when Gunhild Eye was the Council of State. She was perhaps one of the longest state councils – she sat for almost ten years. She was forward, she was reformist, she had ambitions on behalf of the industry, to position the industry for the future. There is no doubt that the structural measures we took in the first year of government are the support plan for creating a good economy and balance in the markets outside. What has happened to the Workers' Party, which has now gone in reverse and is also talking about introducing roofs for production? How has the representative Storberget thought it would work?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3834	The working party has not been deleted in reverses in this area, rather on the contrary. It is in the setting, in the majority, both hope and future. In fact, it has been refused to tear down what we see as the pillar of Norwegian agricultural policy – a large part of the cooperative and the regulation that actually works. It is also from the Labour Party, among other things. looks at how competitive conditions are in the daily food industry. We want a new law on good trading practice, and look at where the shoe is printing in order to get the Norwegian farmer's products into the market. I must also say that there is something important for the recruitment of this industry, it is primarily the welfare and leisure arrangements, which the Gundersen party in government wants to destroy to a great extent. The second is, what kind of possibilities do you have to get a real result of what you do? Are you paid for the job you do? I think it's interesting to see that you want to close the income gap between farmers and other groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3839	I understand that the Workers' Party is going to need tax increases, because if you read the setting: not to be cost-effective, you have obviously forgotten that the farmer is very good, that he is cost-effective every day. There is no need to take productivity gains, because it is problematic. I call it a reverse from the Workers' Party. I wonder that it is a good signal to an industry that has responded so well to many of the grips we have taken. I would like to repeat the question to the representative of Storberget: is it right to direct an industry based on looking in the mirror? We have a huge development, and the farmer is incredibly good at using new technology, to adapt. Do you really want to try to stop these processes?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3844	When I hear the representative Gundersen now, I get a feeling that now we should both soon retire. [[Laughter]] It has never been stated from the Workers' Party's point of view that cost-effectiveness is not important for the Norwegian farmer. I used some of my post just to tell you that I think there are absolutely amazing results we see in terms of the labour productivity of the farmer. I then gave an interview to the Nations newspaper, where I pointed out that some of the structural changes we have had have been absolutely necessary and also made us have had that productivity development. It is quite another thing to reject cost-effectiveness as an important parameter to say that it should be the overriding objective of agricultural policy. And that's where we're separated. I am pleased that the Right Party and the Advance Party have no support in this Chamber because that is what should be the main objective of agricultural policy. Even on the main goal, you collapse.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3849	I'm not going to retire. I'm going to think about the future. That is why I am also challenging the Workers' Party in the future. We know that milk production is the backbone of Norwegian agriculture. We need a renewal. We need a renewal of the average poultry, the 15-30s. It's kind of gone under the radar in comparison to the robotics. Then it surprises me that the Workers' Party has pressed the waiting button when it comes to the average poultry. For they have said that financing of future agriculture within this will be included in each budget. What exactly is the answer from the representative Storberget to that? Why is it not more important than we press the wait button for the average feather?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3854	The working party has not pressed any wait button in respect of any type of poultry that we believe should be included in the milk production in the future. But I'm going to be so honest and say that I believe that the economic issues related to agriculture and the transfers that are to be granted at any time, we're not going to deal with tonight. I can't see a crown from the Christian People's Party to this either, not one proposal. So both the agricultural settlement and the future budgets have to clarify it. That is what I believe to be a real attitude. What worries me about the Christian People's Party in milk production is that you think you can limit the flow of milk into central areas, and then you're with the Progress Party and the Right and you rock a majority to reduce the number of quota regions, which actually open up to get more regions than we have today, and at the risk of centralisation within the regions. Then I am not sure if the average face of the representative Hemdal will come out very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3859	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3865	Thank you to the Committee for a good and long-term work on this matter. Special thanks also to the Christian People's Party and the Left for good and constructive negotiations and results. The main objective of agricultural policy shall be to increase food production. We want to facilitate the good development of the agricultural industry for small and large uses across the country, with food security, agriculture across the country, increased value creation and a sustainable low-carbon agriculture as the overall objective. A Joint Committee takes the view that farmers, as self-employed persons, should be able to enjoy the same incomes as others in society. Income opportunities must be available within a varied use structure in order to allow Norwegian agriculture to exploit its production potential, to ensure recruitment and to increase its potential for income in the industry. An overall committee believes that the income target should be to reduce the income gap between agriculture and other social groups. Good market adaptation and productivity development will be a prerequisite for the formation of income. Agricultural policy must be designed to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian food producers. Norwegian agriculture faces competition for labour and capital from other industries and from non-resident food producers. It is therefore essential that agricultural policy enables farmers to meet these developments. For several decades, Norwegian farmers have been at the end of their productivity in Norway. This has led to the production of as much or more units as before. The number and number of farmers have therefore fallen for many decades. Now, however, the decline has flattened somewhat, and there are fewer farmers leaving the industry. This development is joyful, and there are a number of positive signs that Norwegian agriculture is progressing well for the time being. Figures from NIBIO show a good growth in income, although it varies from part of the country to part of the country and between productions. Food production is increasing, less use and less land is out of production, new cultivation is high, more young rates, and there is a high demand for investment funds. In 2016, it was 20 pst. more highly qualified in agriculture as the first choice in higher education than it was in 2015. The proportion of Norwegian raw materials in the feed is increasing. Appropriations for forest roads and lumberland have increased by from 80 to 100 pst. during this period. And former Minister of Agriculture Trygve Slagsvold Vedum's words: ‘There will be no Norwegian cabbage with Erna’, has been thoroughly shamed when we now have a market balance and more of it on lamb. The government has led an agricultural policy where stimulating increased food production and efficient farming has been important. Changes in grant rates have been made and simplifications have been implemented in the grant system. Some ceilings have been removed in support and quota schemes in order to facilitate the exploitation and investment of new technologies and take advantage of economies of scale where these assumptions exist. This policy has resulted in farmers producing more food in recent years and having a good income growth. We see young people bet in the industry. It gives optimism and faith in the future for the industry. Although changes in grant rates and quota schemes have been made, farmers who operate on a smaller scale still receive significantly more support per animal or per deer than those who operate on a larger scale. Geographical and structural differences are maintained through rural grants and freight subsidies to ensure the basis for agriculture throughout the country. There is no contrast between stimulating economies of scale where possible and stimulating agriculture throughout the country. By aligning the instruments so that e.g.: The use of grazing resources can both be achieved for the part of agriculture that can exploit these resources. I am pleased that the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left allows us to continue the main lines of agricultural policy, and that the changes that have been made are not reversed. This ensures the predictability and stability of the industry, and I believe that with this direction the optimism and the faith of the future in the industry will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3891	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3896	I will stick to two main lines and not go into the details of agricultural policy. We can all be happy about that. Cost-effective food production was proposed as the main objective of agricultural policy by the Right in Government. In Stortinget we see that the Right selects a different main goal. At the same time, we know from historical experience from 2013 and also in the past that the Right, to put it mildly, must be said to have been somewhat lukewarm in terms of import protection, which is, of course, a pillar of the whole policy. In today’s setting, on page 27, the Right – and all – say that ‘a well-functioning import protection is one of the supports of the Norwegian agricultural model’. What is the reason why right angles so fit, with two such sizes, that is, the main goal and one such important thing as import protection, that is, the support of the Norwegian agricultural model?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3905	Now it is the case that a Joint Committee supports the main objectives of Norwegian agriculture. It concerns food security, agriculture across the country, increased value creation and sustainable low-emission agriculture. The effective use of State transfers of common resources does not conflict with any of those objectives and, in my view, must be a prerequisite for state support. In the case of import protection, customs protection, together with import prices, is determined by how high the Norwegian prices may be, and in the last Article 19 negotiations, greater allowances were granted by the government of Stoltenberg II than has now been made by the current government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3912	I continue a bit where the representative Storberget escaped. Import protection is a pillar of Norwegian agricultural policy to address the diversity of Norwegian-produced food. The setting agrees with the Right and Advance Party. However, the Right Party and the Progressive Party do not agree with a remark that Norway should not unilaterally weaken its rights in the WTO. Then my question to the representative is: why is it that the Right does not include such a comment that we should not be weakened unilaterally?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3919	The right is concerned with the proper functioning of customs protection, and now it is our commitments in the WTO and the EEA Agreement that determine much of this. It is important to have a good relationship with their trading partners, while at the same time having a variety of products for the Norwegian population. As I said, my view is quite clear that this government is as offensive on Norwegian agriculture as the previous government was, and proper customs protection is important. I think everyone agrees on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3924	I am busy because we should not create uncertainty about what is in this setting. It's about the main goal, where the representative Foss said one thing I didn't say. It states that one indicates that in the agricultural report the government announces that cost-effective food production is the main objective of the agricultural policy. 'The Committee does not support this as the main objective of the agricultural policy', the opinion states. It also states that the Committee’s plurality, all of which is not a member of the Socialist Left Party, is of the opinion that ‘the main objective of agricultural policy is to increase Norwegian food production on the basis of Norwegian resources’. Then my question is simple: Has the government been able to see through the Stortinget for its main purpose with Norwegian agricultural policy, cost-effective food production, or is the main purpose of increasing Norwegian food production based on Norwegian resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3933	The chairperson of the Committee knows very well what was the outcome of the negotiations in the Committee, but that state transfers of common resources must be used effectively, I think everyone agrees. Then we agree on the four overall objectives of agricultural policy, and this is not at all contrary to any of them. State resources must be used effectively, but the main objective of agricultural policy is the four overall objectives, with their underpinning, agreed by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3940	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3945	Let me also begin my speech by thanking the Committee for good cooperation and, in particular, the Chairman of the Committee for having managed the work of the Committee in an excellent way. Finally, the day has come when we are going to deal with a message that the agricultural industry and other actors in the sector have been waiting for a long time. The treatment of this message has taken a little longer than we all thought, but today this room is going to provide important guidance on how this country's agricultural industry is going to develop, renew and participate in the challenges and opportunities we face in this country and across borders. Let one thing be clear right away: the main task of agriculture is to produce food. This must happen within the best framework conditions, and here, as politicians, we have an overall responsibility to do our best to ensure that agriculture can achieve exactly that. The Progress Party also states that the social tasks of agriculture are profitable and safe food production in line with the interests of consumers, the production of common resources and the contribution to employment and value creation across the country. It is essential for agriculture to be sustainable and for it to continue to be a multiplicity of agriculture throughout the country. As mentioned at the outset, we are living at a different time, and when the world changes, we also have to renew and change the policy. The international market is more demanding than before, and it is therefore essential that we also equip the agricultural industry to meet this challenge. Norwegian agriculture has many international competitive advantages and has a good starting point for the production of competitive quality products. Trade in an increasingly open world has provided Norway with good opportunities to exploit our competitive advantage and our resource base to create a strong and well-being economy. Increased wealth, changes in diet and population growth also indicate that the demand for agricultural products will not fall by the first. These are key points that we must not forget when we are going to shape tomorrow's agricultural policy. For the Progress Party and the Government, it is clear that agriculture needs a policy that forms a forward-looking agriculture that is less political and more consumer- and market-oriented. Central interventions to respond to this are to facilitate the structure of instruments by simplifying schemes, reducing public intervention in business activities and increasing competition through changes in market balancing. I am therefore pleased that the government and cooperation parties are in favour of simplifications in the form of changes to schemes that provide more transparency or less work for the farmer and/or the administration with regard to, for example, instruments systems. However, through the examination of this communication in the Committee, I have seen more clearly than ever that there are some major differences between the parties on where we will conduct this country's agricultural policy. Unlike the Progress Party, there are several parties in this room – perhaps with the Centre Party at its head – who do not want to look forward, but work actively for agriculture to be based on yesterday’s solutions. For example, in market regulation schemes – other than in pigs – there will be no majority in order to make any changes to the market organisation, either on eggs, cereals or fruit and vegetables. The market balancing committee concluded that, in many contexts, the schemes involve socio-economic costs, inefficiency and overproduction. However, as noted in the comments, this remains unchanged without any specific changes. It is also sad that the opposition will not liquidate the early retirement scheme. For the Progress Party, it has always been important to look at measures that ensure recruitment to the industry. Therefore, I would like the majority in this Chamber to spend more money to stimulate those who are going into the industry, rather than those who are going out of agriculture. These are two of several examples in which the majority of the Committee is turning its back on the government's proposals to keep abreast of more or less old schemes, which could have been examined in many contexts to the best of agriculture. After the message was sent, a number of media have suggested that the Stortinget has stopped the controversial proposals made by the government, and in particular that the Center Party’s Geir Pollestad believes that ‘nearly any government council has gone on as many defeats as Dale does with this message’. It's a black paint and a very wrong interpretation of actual conditions. During my relatively short time in Stortinget, I have been involved in some negotiations, and a good sign that the negotiations have been good is that they have been given and taken in political areas. We have given a lot, but the position that is being discussed today is a good result for this country's agriculture, in line with the policies of the Progress Party and the Government as well. Among other things, we have have been implemented in order to ensure that the main purpose of Norwegian agriculture is still to increase food production to an extent that is intended to meet domestic demand and exports. We've had a positive impact on reducing the number of milk regions. Major production regions will provide a larger market for milk quotas and will provide more flexible markets than at present. Farmers shall have the opportunity to develop income in line with others in society, and there is a broad consensus that a prerequisite for good market adaptation and productivity development is. In addition, the Progress Party and I believe that it is unreasonable for the state to set targets on what people are going to eat and what agriculture is going to produce in detail. So I am pleased that we are removing the target of 15 p.m. the production and consumption of organic food. People's demand for organic food will control production, as it works almost all other industries. It manages the market to manage perfectly on its own. The treatment of this message has been exciting and not least demanding, but in sum, the compromises we are adopting today will take this country's agriculture in the right direction in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3968	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3974	The income development of the farmers is good, it is said from the Right and the Advance Party, and you would like to take credit for it. In fact, the Right admits that there are some variations in the country, but you don't specify how this works. The operational reviews show that the average income of the peasants in the Western counties has now remained calm. There are many small and medium-sized applications. Is it the government's policy arrangement or is it the West Bank's fault that these do not achieve income development? What's the Progress Party going to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3979	What Right concreteizes or not I'm going to be careful to answer. I am in favour of the policy of the Progress Party. What I can answer, however, is about the evolution we've seen in recent years. Norwegian farmers have experienced a very positive increase in income in recent years. From 2014 to 2016 farmers experienced an income growth of 13 p.m. For the whole period 2014-2017, an income growth of between 18 p.m. has been forecast. and 19 pst. It is significantly better than most other groups in society — compared to most groups in society, it is more than twice as good.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3986	Let me start by clarifying that the election of Dale, and that hardly any government council has done so little in one thing, was said before Vidar Helgesen presented his proposal to change the law on natural disasters, which thus got zero votes. The leap list for the Progress Party and the Council of State has been sent out, and it says as one of the sigrans that one has removed the numerical target for organic production and consumption. What is not included is that a majority in the Committee are asking for a new and up-to-date target on organic consumption and production. Is it then right to say that the Progress Party in this matter has won a big saying, when the only thing that achieves is that one gets one summer without an own eco-objection?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e3993	At least we've won a victory on a temporary basis. We're going to try to pull that winner forward in the years that come. There is no doubt that our primary policy is not to have one's own eco-objective. I think most people are able to decide what you want to eat, and what makes sense to eat. There may well be a lot of positive things about organic food and farming, but there are also some proven challenges, some problems, related to organic production. If you, for example, is engaged in increased food production, partly contrasts with organic food production, which requires more area than normal food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4006	If this is what the Progress Party sees as good negotiations, I really look forward to the future negotiations. If you can get so much out of the government during the negotiations, it's really exciting times we're going into. It has been exciting to follow the journey of the Advance Party through this process. First came the message from the state council, which went hard with great reforms and changes, crazy liberalisation osb. Then there's some sort of aha experience during the process, where one goes against not only own government, but also its own minister, when it applies everything from the main goals, income targets and the entire market side to the successor scheme. Even the individual parts of the government configuration match the individual parts of the message. Can the representative of the Progress Party explain and give us some insight into what has been the cause of the reversion of the party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4013	Let me first say that if the representative wants to see more such exciting debates, the representative has only one choice, and that is to help re-elect the majority that has a majority in the Grand Duchy today. I would also recommend the rest of the hall to do that. It's never such that a minority government can expect to get through for absolutely everything it's proposed. It is called parliamentaryism and the distribution of power. It's hardly anything that's brand new for this hall. I happily admit that compromise is part of the everyday life of the government parties. That's what it's like to be in a minority. But the opposition and the SV representative have to decide what you actually mean. At one moment, the Council of State is the wing clipper and the policy has never been further away from the policy of the Progress Party. At the next moment, crisis maximisation and dark clouds threaten all agriculture due to the policies of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4020	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4025	The food we produce in Norway is unique. It's clean, it's of high quality. The peasant's nitite work every day with good animal care and good agronomy is an essential success factor behind the unique food we eat. I know of pride every harvest when the lake is in my hand, whether it is cultivated in love in Telemark or in the West – it smells good, and it tastes good. Now I'm looking forward to the early asparagus, probably not the correct term, but I think everyone here in the hall understands what I'm thinking: the asparagus as the safe spring sign it is. Or what's the spring without the downpour of the muck drive? – Strong, yes no doubt about it, but above all a fantastic source of nutrition. I'm proud of our agriculture and the food they deliver. When I travel around and meet farmers, I meet competent professionals who are proud to deliver good quality and who burn for what they do. We want more of these, and we want more food production. What goal we are going to have for our agriculture has been one of the major debates in this communication. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the majority of the Committee gathered around a different goal from that proposed by the government, and that the Stortinget today decides that the main task of agriculture is to produce feed and food on the basis of Norwegian resources that it is natural to produce in Norway. Food production shall have a level that covers domestic demand and exports. In addition, not only does our agriculture provide us with food, it also contributes to producing common resources such as preparedness, housing, employment, cultural landscapes and other cultural values. I am pleased with the ambitious production target that is now being adopted. It tells our farmers that we want more of what they produce, and we want more Norwegian farmers. The Christian People's Party has been working on this message to formulate a strong, good and precise income target. There is no doubt that the incomes of the agricultural industry are lower than those of other groups of society. For the Christian People's Party, therefore, it has not been good enough to ensure agriculture the same percentage of income development as others, as the income target has been in the past. We're going to reduce the income gap, and then the farmers have to get more dollars each year than other groups. It is crucial for recruitment that we raise the income opportunities in the industry, and I am glad that an overall committee says that farmers should have the same income development as others, and that this should apply to the entire varied usage structure we have. The fact that we have just a varied usage structure is essential for us to be able to use the whole country, as the Christian People's Party wants. We think we need the little ones who can use soil in the middle of the spring and at the top of the mountain. And then we need the big ones. Therefore, it is important for the Christian People's Party to continue and strengthen instruments that are differentiated on geography and structure. The current grant profile involves a reduction in subsidies per animal at increased operational levels, and we believe that production beyond a certain scope of operations should be mainly financed by the market. In addition, we have now ensured that the need for innovation for small and medium-sized applications is taken more seriously, and that is the time. The Christian People's Party has been particularly concerned with the renewal of the spine in Norwegian milk production, i.e. the average dairy poultry. Dairy poultry with 15-30 cows have lived for many years and under changing agricultural ministers in the shadow of the large robotic birds. The milk robot is an important innovation, but much of our grass is scattered around small areas that are not suitable for the operation of 50-60 cows per poultry, without creating new distance disadvantages and a lot of internal transport. There will be dramatic consequences if the need for renewal of the average feathers is not taken seriously, and therefore the Christian People's Party proposed a rescue action for these types of use. On behalf of Norwegian agriculture, I am pleased that the investments are now turning in their direction. Milk production provides active agriculture throughout the country. Current milk regions do not prevent quota leakage between the different parts within current milk regions. And today's division can also lead to the centralization of the milk. I am therefore pleased with the adjustment now to be made in the agricultural settlement of the year, with those who have the shoes or boots on, on the basis of more comparable production conditions for milk production than the current 18 administrative regions. For the Christian People's Party, it has just been important to facilitate milk to be the source of it in rural agriculture and in Norwegian agriculture. Yes, a total increase has, in the form of a note, joined what I have called a rescue action for average milk consumption in Norway. This is particularly important for future agriculture. However, the Committee's wisdom is also evident in the emphasis on the fact that, despite such an investment effort, there is also room for action for regional partnership, in order to make it possible to prioritise investment instruments between productions in each region. As I said before, it is absolutely essential for the future of the industry that we facilitate recruitment. I was therefore disappointed when I read the government's message and saw that there were no new recruitment measures and that this was at all getting little attention. So I've been talking to more farmers and getting input into what's important, and I'm glad that there's a majority for increased focus on recruitment. We need to work to facilitate education and skills development and increase the reputation of the industry. In addition, it is very good that the Stortinge said no today to the government's wish to remove the early retirement scheme, and that the redundancy allowance for holidays and leisure time is continued. Farmers are also people who should have the opportunity of leisure and family life. Not in a statement, but in a general sentence, I would say that today's setting involves an important time difference in terms of the agricultural contract institute. Not since the Jamstelling Decision in 1975 has the Stortinget set such an ambitious production target. An overall committee determines this, and it is worth noting the political landscape behind such a comment. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the responsibility of producers for the market balance and the responsibility of producers for financing all market balancing measures continue. The non-implementation of government proposals in this area will benefit both producers, the food industry and consumers. I am pleased that an overall committee says that the market balance for goat's milk should be maintained. We've got healthier goats that produce more and better quality milk. Nothing is better than that. The Christian People's Party wants more goat's milk out in the market, as a collective committee says it. It is the plank of the bottom plank, the organization of the market in goat's milk. Market opportunities shall be exploited both locally and nationally. We have a lot of juicy nice grass around in our long country. For this reason, it is good that a joint committee should be set on a set-aside basis, but that it should not be at the expense of land parcels that cannot be harvested mechanically. One of the pillars of Norwegian agricultural policy is the protection of imports. There's no doubt about it. Import protection is important to call that we should have and will continue to have a variety of Norwegian-produced foods. A well-functioning and predictable protection of imports is a prerequisite for maintaining agriculture throughout the country and increasing food production. Or as State Council Dale said it to the Evening Post at Easter: ‘Yes, it is not possible to be Minister of Agriculture and does not believe that the protection of imports is important for Norwegian agriculture.’ The Christian People's Party is concerned with a well-functioning and predictable protection of imports. For the Christian People's Party, it is also important that we have a property policy and a land management that ensures our country's scarce agricultural resources in a long-term and sustainable way. Therefore, compulsory farming is an important instrument for ensuring that agricultural land is used for food production. In conclusion, I would like to thank Mr Pollestad and his adviser, I would like to thank the Council of State, I would like to thank the rest of the Committee for its willingness to find a broad majority. It is simply a victory for agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4085	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4090	I want to follow up on the line that the representative had to the representative Pollestad, who she was also inside in her post. It is important that the Christian People's Party ensures a majority in the Committee to reduce the number of milk quota regions from 18 to 14. The majority of the comments state that the administrative boundaries of the day are not accurate in order to ensure a geographically balanced development. Then I don't even understand that the grip is reducing the number of regions to 14. Will it not only involve a greater centralisation, which goes beyond the 25-circuits of which the representative has been involved? And is it at all possible that the parties already in this year's agricultural negotiations, which are starting now, can find good divisions that fulfill the intention of such an important matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4096	I like this line. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stop the centralisation of milk within today's milk quotas. The milk quota regions are a powerful tool to keep milk in the districts, but we have to do it better. So there's no reduction in the majority of people going in favour of today. It's an adjustment down to 14 from 18. And we've probably decided since we got 18, both that the county that the representative belongs to will have a neighbouring party in it, and that the Tronde team will join together. It's from 18 to 14, so it's a great adjustment. From the Christian People's Party, we're busy keeping the milk in the districts, and that's why we want to find ways of producing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4103	The representative Heimdal has held a brilliant article. I agree with everything that was said, if I take a little bit of a review of the milk quota regions. I agree that this setting which we have provided will be a timer when you look forward. But the representative is busy with the average dairy. If one looks at the history of an average dairy with 26 dairy cows, the policy pursued by the majority and the results of the last three agricultural decisions have resulted in an average dairy with 26 cows having a cut of 15 468 kroner per year. Does the representative, Mr Hemdal, see the need to turn the policy and now strengthen the economy into the average, which has been cut over the last few years – and especially as a result of the agricultural settlement in spring 2014?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4108	I would like to thank the committee chairman and the case rapporteur for their excellent contribution. It's not that often you hear from a counter-debatetant, so I take that to myself. The Christian People’s Party, together with a majority, is aware that it is natural that ‘in addition to a certain scope of operations, production is mainly based on market revenue’. This is a good response to the representative Pollestad. Those who are able to draw income from the market must do so because the other farmers, who are not so easily able to draw income from the market, will receive more of the funds that we, as representatives, hope to receive for the harvest from the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4115	There is probably no treatment of a large-scale report on agriculture that has been so interested in what is being said in this Chamber. Those who have gone through the setting will have noticed that in the question of income targets, the Christian People's Party has not been clear on how to do this. The representative, Mr Heimdal, has in the past been very clear and busy quickly closing the gap between the incomes that farmers have and that other groups have, that it must happen quickly, and that it must be concrete. I want to give the representative Hemdal the opportunity to say a little about how, because there has been a big discussion about whether this should be done in percent or in dollars. How does Hemdal think about this? Can the representative agree with me that one cannot close this gap by percentages?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4124	Thanks for the line. Four years ago I stood as a representative and discussed agricultural policy and got the same line. I think I can roughly repeat the answer, the intention at least. Politics is the same for the Christian People's Party. We don't reduce the income gap for farmers compared to other comparable groups if it's not with heads. Like everyone else, farmers live by crowns. I'm sure it's all the farmers who sit at the Stortinget Gallery, completely agree, and all those who follow this debate out via Storinget.no, that yes, it's via crowns and ears. And then I'm glad that in the Christian People's Party, for the past four years, we have used our influence on what we can do by increasing incomes – along with the fact that the sun has been good, and that the market has produced good results for the farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4131	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4136	I start by thanking the Committee and the rapporteur for a well-implemented cooperation process, which has led – I would say – to a very good result. Today, we are dealing with a matter of particular importance for Norwegian farmers, the food industry and other agricultural-related activities. But the matter – and agriculture – is important far beyond that. It's about food supply, food supply, food development, housing across the country, how we want to emerge with our cultural landscape, and much, much more. The left is engaged in agriculture throughout the country, adapted to geographical and climatic conditions, and small and medium-sized applications are to be addressed further. The continuation of market mechanisms and welfare systems and additional attention to animal welfare, soil protection, ecology, research and recruitment are particularly important for the Left. I am pleased that we have succeeded in getting the majority of this in committee. Yes, in many areas it is a unanimous committee. This is good for Norwegian farmers and Norwegian agriculture, and it is good for Norway. Through the discussion of the agricultural communication, the Left has made a strong contribution to placing agricultural policy where it belongs, in the centre of Norwegian policy, and in practice rather close to that of the Left. It means a policy that largely marks the distance from government's wishes for agriculture. For the Left, it has been important to make it visible that agriculture is a long-term industry, which requires long-term and stable framework conditions. That is why I think we should have an agriculture that takes advantage of the special opportunities offered by a varied Norwegian geography, whether it be the flatlands or our fjords and mountains. That is why we also want to make some extra arrangements for e.g.: goat farming. Agriculture needs to strengthen food security and preparedness through increased production on Norwegian resources. Agriculture shall ensure safe food through good plant and animal health and animal welfare. The use of the soil to produce food is soil protection, and the Left and I want to prevent irreversible degradation of food soil. Soil protection should be strong, and I do not think it should be allowed to build dwellings, recreational dwellings and commercial buildings on arable or cultivated land. Agriculture shall strengthen employment and housing throughout Norway and exploit the natural advantages it has. For the Left, it is quite central that it should be attractive to run small farms together with other activities, preferably in combination with tourism or other entrepreneurial activities based on the resources of the garden. The left wants investment vehicles to be used deliberately to contribute to differentiated agriculture. Agriculture shall increase the value creation of production adapted to the climate, environment and consumption. Education, advice and research must be strengthened and adapted to climate change and technological development. Agriculture must take its share of environmental and climate responsibility. In the event of an incursion, the Left is within the Committee's opinion rejecting fees for biological processes. The left wants to see the climate work in the context and therefore does not want to reject any instruments in the overall work. For the Left, it is in any case important that everyone who takes responsibility for climate change should come out at least as well economically as today. It is necessary to allow for the benefit of Norwegian breeding, the low consumption of antibiotics and pesticides, good animal health and animal welfare and the production in small units to contribute to increased value creation. The left has ambitious goals for organic farming, and we are particularly concerned with strengthening the ecological effort at NORSØK and NIBIO at Tingvoll. There must be open and transparent market balancing and production regulation, so as to create understanding and acceptance, and the proper functioning of the arrangements. I am in favour of simplification measures for traders, but simplifications in agriculture must not be at the expense of the purpose of the schemes. I am pleased with the efforts of former State Councillor Lars Sponheim to stimulate the production and processing of local food. It's worked. The growth in the turnover of local and niche food has been formidable. It is gratifying to record that products also apply outside Norway. Tingvolost produces the world's best cheese, in More and Romesdal. It's impressive and makes me proud as a bitch, at least. Synergies between agriculture and tourism, food culture, health, care and other entrepreneurial activities seem to me to need to be reinforced. Norway is a country with unique raw materials and skilled professionals and entrepreneurs. We need to develop this further. Finally, I would like to refer to the proposals of the Greens/Greens/EFA. Several of them I have a great sense of, and I would like to signal support for the proposals No. 14, 16 and 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4166	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4171	From a comment on the increased use of roughage, which the Left does not agree with, I would like to ask whether this objective of increased food production across the country should be based primarily on Norwegian resources, and not on soya - from an environmental point of view?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4176	I think, through the comments that we are very clear in the setting here, that the Left captures well what is the question to the representative Omland. To me it stands as a good answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4181	The representative of Farstad said he was particularly concerned with organic farming and products. With all the information you gradually have, including: that on average it requires 84 pst. more land to produce organically, does the representative see any challenges at all with organic farming and products?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4187	I'm assuming that organic production will be limited for a long time in the future. As far as the objectives of organic products are concerned, I think it is important that we stick to land that can be used for organic farming and production. So that question I have no problem with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4192	In the setting, the Left wants to increase the demand for ingredients in order to avoid buying-in – a desire to stimulate the demand for organic food, and an important tool for this is the information offices. Left has a note saying that ‘a common information office is to be set up to provide information on climate, food history, ecology, food and health’. This is the setting that none of the proposals associated with data business have multiples. For this reason, a proposal has been submitted by the Centre Party, No. 12, which is equivalent to the left's comment, i.e. that ‘The Government requests the establishment of a Joint Information Office to provide information on climate, food waste, ecology, food and health.’; Does Left appear to be a good suggestion?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4206	Yes, we have submitted a note that the representative Pollestad refers to here now, and there will be full opportunity to join that note. I have to say that I have been amazed that it has not been a goal for example. The representative of Pollestad to join that remark. That comment shall be valid and that comment shall be fully acceptable to the representative of Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4211	The cord shift is over. It's 22:00, and the regulatory time for the Storting meeting is now over. The President proposes that the meeting continue until today's map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4218	We live in an uncertain time. It is far from certain that we humans are able to do anything to prevent the earth from being warmed up, and that major and destructive climate change is going on. The consequences of climate change are serious for food production. At the same time as there are several people on earth, the food earth is being destroyed. Already today is as much as 40 pst. of all arable land on a global or significant scale. At the same time, we see signs that the level of conflict in the world is increasing. Presidents in the West and East are hardening to the fronts and are isolating their lands. A list of conflicts is being created which increases the chances of them appearing. A host of conflicts makes us more vulnerable. Suddenly, the boat does not place more than 30,000 tons of soybean in the hold of the berth in Fredrikstad every month. In this situation, Norway must be a driver of global climate change and contribute to reducing the level of conflict. We have to think about our food production. It's about our future and our security. The paradox is that Norway is now effectively building up its use of Norwegian soil resources and increasing imports of food and feed. With this government even increasing climate emissions – at a time when we have to drastically reduce them. The government doesn't seem to be adjusting to the challenges of the time we live in. They live in another world, where ideology is truth and reality is considerate. Taking developments seriously is reducing climate change emissions and increasing the use of Norwegian soil resources — a more self-contained food production, where Norway is less dependent on imported food and feed and places less seizures of foreign agricultural land. It strengthens our own food security and is solidarity with the peoples of other countries. The agricultural budget item recently provided a new overview of income trends in agriculture. The speech shows, among other things: that the smallest dairy farmers have more than DKK 100000 less income per year than the largest. Since the government came to power, this development is speeding. It concentrates and intensifies agriculture. Large land areas will not be used, fewer actors will be used, and those left will stay central and larger. In the districts, agriculture is being reduced. The aim is the highest possible cost-effectiveness, and that the country should contribute as little as possible, and if it is cheaper to import than to produce food here in the country, it is quite fine. There is a sluggish view of food production in our time. Developments also have strong geographical effects, which are the spread of agriculture along the coast and in the mountainous areas, which is being weakened: in the South, in the West, in the Inland and in Northern Norway. Development has a strong social impact, it is no longer enough to be good, one must be big – preferably on a flat field – and only that. Then a favorite becomes in this narrow mindset. This was the back porch when Stortinget went into the work with the agricultural message. The Board of Governors rejected the government's proposal for a new agricultural policy and created a new one. We all know today that the government would never have brought the message if they had known what the result had been. For SV, this has been just a pleasure. Today, we can thank Sylvi Listhaug very much, who made the proposal to start this work. Without her initiative, we would not have found another direction for Norwegian agriculture – and it says when SV can say that we are some in 80 pst. of the final result. Nevertheless, in some areas SV would go beyond the multiples. We want a more ambitious and concrete income target, where the Storting says something about how to close the income gap. We want a better distribution of income between large and small uses. Today, more and more of the incomes are gathering on fewer hands, punctuating the goal of increasing the use of Norwegian soil and having agriculture throughout the country. Although the objective of agricultural policy is now much more societally oriented than the government's original narrow focus on cost-effectiveness, we still have a way of making concrete progress on how we want to achieve the goal. The proposal to introduce an operational disability premium, a scheme that would really have seen speed in the use of land in the whole country, is unfortunately only SV that supports today. That's too bad. The model has a great deal of integration in the subject. Measures such as this – a structural profile that ensures better distribution of income, good investment arrangements across the country and strengthening grazing industries – are necessary if one takes the consequences of the formulations of the new multi-annual to increase the use of Norwegian resources and make Norway less dependent on inputs from abroad. But we've taken important steps on the road as well, so this we get to come back to. Not least, it will be an important job for the parties to the agricultural policy to further clarify it. Unfortunately, the Stortinget is now moving away from the goal of increasing organic food production and consumption, at a time when more and more people want organic food, and at a time when Norwegian soil resources are also under pressure and weakened. Ambitious efforts in organic food production would have met the wishes of the people and contributed to strengthening the global health, which is the basis of the whole industry. Stepping away from this goal sends a bad signal to all farmers who have really invested in this demanding and exciting field. Here there are especially many young farmers who are inspired to drive organically. SV's fear is that this slowdown in organic food production can in the long term challenge whole import protection, because when the demand for more organic food increases in the population, it will increase the pressure on imports from countries that really invest in this. And Norway is now the least ambitious country in the North, it can punish itself in the long term for all of us. A little hope is that the new eco-strategy will set a new target. SV will follow that work carefully. Only 3 pst. of our land is arable, the rest of the resources we need are taken from the moatlands, pastures, fall forests, coastal lynghea and the rest of the cultural landscape. From the cultural landscape, we pick up feed that our livestock turn into meat and milk. The cultural landscape provides food for our animals, and the insects that live there pollinate the food plants. This is our security in a future when suddenly the soybean boat doesn't come. We have to take care of that, and to take care of it, it has to be used. We don't take care of the cultural landscape by collecting 400 sheep in a poultry and feeding them with power feed instead of grass. The cultural landscape is preserved by facilitating varied operations throughout the country, ensuring that the animals graze, and that the grass is beaten. Norway has absolutely amazing beitem misdemeanors. NIBIO recently concluded that Norwegian outland is at the tip of the world, and the further up to mountains or north in the country one comes, the better it gets. This should, of course, be a bet area, but instead the government proposes to strangle the grazing industry by removing the market system, introducing a buying-in system and cutting the grazing system. Fortunately, this stops Stortinget, that's good. There is still something left, with a small purchase scheme, that SV went against. But SV wants to go even further in this effort on Norwegian pasture and really strengthen the framework – and goes in for it in this setting. Then one gets the potential out. Finally, I would like to add that I am surprised that SV is on its own to address the situation of the people of Northern and Troms. The work of clarifying the use and management of state ownership in these two counties has taken too much time, and now it seems that government is satisfied. While the rest of the population in Norway don't pay for the use of state property, State Forest spends over 100 million dollars. kr from the population there on the use of the same type of property. Not only is it discriminatory, it also weakens the nutritional capacity and only acts as a source of income for Statskog. It's a mystery to me that the Right does not follow up own national meeting decisions, which were clear and clear, and supports SV's proposals. It should be noted by the people of the north. Finally, I would like to mention the suggestions that SV has in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4241	The representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes then addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4248	SV writes in its comments on page 24 of the setting: ‘The government’s agricultural strategy makes our country, and the basis for Norwegian food production, more vulnerable in an uncertain period.’ Of course, the government's strategy is not to reduce agriculture. The results clearly show that agriculture is being built up. Young people are betting, there is a record investment, and optimism is back. What are the results of government policy based on SV's analysis?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4258	Recent figures from the agricultural budget topic showed large differences in incomes in agriculture. Through this treatment, we also received figures directly from the Council of State that showed that developments are increasing, and that money is being moved, especially from agriculture in the West, in northern Norway and in the mountainous regions of central Norway. This means that one gets a concentration of agriculture in this country, and thus one downstretches the whole country. It wants SV to go against. On the other hand, we want a commitment to this agriculture. We know that in the last 30 years there has been a tremendous decline in the use of land in Norway, and it has accelerated with the policies that governments set up. That's what we want to do. Our goal is to get a big investment in Norwegian agriculture again. We think it's especially important in the time we live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4265	The representative raised the question of the state's matriculated land in Northern and Troms, which we have also touched on in the attitude. So there is no doubt: from our point of view, there is a question that should definitely be clarified. But I have to say that I react to SV saying that everyone else does not take a stand, and that only those who cut through in this case are. This is, of course, one of the most complex legal issues that exists, for example. the setting by the Joint Committee II. Is it really the case that SV believes that the most important issues for people, who are literally fundamental rights, are to be decided over the table in the context of a big message that does not concern the issue at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4270	I don't understand the premise in the question, because that's exactly what's the point of the SV proposal in this case, that we don't want to go into different types of models to go for in Northern and Troms. We don't want to decide whether to go for a mountain settlement in the North and Troms, or whether to go for what was proposed by the Samerettsvarktion II, to have a Hålogaland property in this area. We just want to get the principle that the people of Northern Ireland and Troms are going to be treated in the same way as the rest of the people of Norway, that is, they are going to have the right to use state ownership, that they are going to be involved in managing it, and that the income from this is going to benefit the people of Northern and Troms. We're not in that situation today. And that's what I invited the committee to join, and nobody joined. On the other hand, what you would like to know is that you have a quick answer in this question. I think it's good that the committee goes ahead, but I don't think it's good that one doesn't take a position on the simple principle that the peoples of Northland and Troms should be treated in the same way as the peoples of the other states of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4275	The representative spent a good part of his time talking about the importance of Norwegian-produced food based on Norwegian raw materials on Norwegian soil. I would like to ask the representative a relatively simple question: Does the representative think it would be more or less attractive to produce Norwegian meat with a special meat fee at the expense of e.g. imports?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4281	As stated in the setting, which I believe the representative has read, SV is not in favour of introducing special rules for biological processes, i.e. taxing them from a climate perspective – which has been suggested in other contexts. It has not been mentioned by SV, we do not want taxes on beef, if that is what the representative is thinking about. If one is really going to increase food production in Norway, it means that one gets more animals. That would mean that one gets more emissions, but that's how we're going to get home to Norway in a lot of ways, that's how we're going to do it in Norway. What I think we need to be able to deal with in the big climate accounting, by implementing cuts in other sectors, such as the environment. transport and other parts of Norwegian society where there are great opportunities for climate change. But this should not affect the escalation we are going to have in Norwegian food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4288	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4293	Cheap food can quickly be very expensive. The size now addresses an agricultural message that has had cost-effective food production as its main objective. There is a notification that takes Norwegian agriculture in a direction that the Norwegian resource base and the important assumptions for food production in Norway do not benefit from. That is why, in the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European It's not clinging to old-fashioned politics. It's not to be in reverse language. It is to relate to the actual basis of Norwegian agriculture, but there is also something more, which is very forward-looking. It is to add Norwegian agriculture's most important advantage. The advantage of Norwegian agriculture is that we can produce food of very high quality for Norwegian consumers based on good operating practices, good workplaces, non-toxic and medicated production, good animal welfare and good contributions to Norwegian communities. This means, not least, that the small areas must be put into use and that the small uses must still be an important part of Norwegian agriculture. Norwegian agriculture is not primarily suitable for producing cheap food. Imagining us or Norwegian consumers that's not a good idea, and that's not good agricultural policy. What Norwegian agriculture can do is produce good food and, by producing good food, contribute to Norway’s modest share of the world’s overall ability to produce food from resources around the globe. Norwegian agriculture is not well placed to participate in open international competition, and the notification’s objective of adapting Norwegian agriculture to an ‘increasingly demanding international market’ is an objective that we cannot and should not have. We cannot, or should not, compete on the basis of an international market which has a significant competitive advantage over higher drug use, higher injecting drug use, poorer working conditions for those working in agriculture, poorer environmental requirements and poorer animal welfare. What is necessary for Norwegian agriculture is to maintain good customs protection and be willing to use sufficient public resources to build an agricultural industry that will last for a long time and produce the food we deserve in the Norwegian market. It is also a sensible investment to build a market for Norwegian food, Norwegian quality food, which will increase agricultural incomes. A Norwegian agricultural sector producing food that can compete at import prices does not become an agricultural sector producing quality food that Norwegian consumers prefer. In this picture, it is also important to have eco-farming. The majority of the current 15 pst. target for eco- farming is worrying. We note that a new objective is to be set, but with the previous debate on eco-farming here in the Stortinget, where both the Centre Party, the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right spent time worrying about the fact that eco-farming can weaken the reputation of the rest of agriculture is not the most reliable. We hope that the Stortinge will take over, as both the Lander and the Small Farmer Team are quite clear, that a strong share of eco-farming and organic products and methods are an important strength for Norwegian agriculture. There is no difference between eco-farming and organic methods and the rest of Norwegian agriculture. On the contrary, there is an opportunity for a cooperative, a cooperation that will strengthen Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian food market potential and reputation, and that is how we hope the Storting will deal with it. On one point, we fully agree with the government. We need more attention for the consumer – the consumer in Norway who will have the best products from Norwegian agriculture available, the consumer who is also a citizen to ensure food security in a world where it is not obvious that we can buy everything in other people’s shops. The Green Party is not on the committee and has therefore not taken part in the drafting of the vote, and we are therefore promoting ten own proposals. I'm bringing up these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4314	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4321	The representative Hansson often goes into the debates with a lot of ethos, based on a lot of knowledge and research, according to himself. In 2014, a report from the Scientific Committee on Food Safety concluded that organic food is neither better nor worse for health than conventionally produced food. They concluded that animal welfare is broadly the same with both production methods. We also know that organic farming consumes far more land than conventional agriculture. We know that organic farming uses so-called green manure, which is transformed into the greenhouse gas natural gas. We know that this leads to increased emissions of methane, emissions that the representative Hansson usually tends to express himself skeptically about. What does the representative Hansson know, as some of our leading researchers in this field don't know?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4330	First of all, I must say that I am impressed by Bjørnstad's intrusive eagerness to take the rat on – I'm sorry to say, President, but it's late – Norwegian eco-agriculture. It's hard to see the purpose of it, besides having a fun hen to pick with political opponents. Firstly, the research material referred to by the representative, Bjørnstad, primarily focuses on the health of organic food. To the extent that conventional agricultural food products do not contain drug residues or sprays, it is true that the difference — at least in the Norwegian context — is small. The obvious thing at the same time is that using ecological methods to treat the soil and to produce food from the soil over time will necessarily, from a biological point of view, be the most sustainable – and more sustainable than agricultural methods based on either feeding or injecting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4339	The President is not quite sure that ‘to put the rat on’ is a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4344	I was about to say that rats are eel-ridden animals, but it's probably not that -- yes, maybe. I will not continue the crusade I heard now, against organic farming. [[Laughter]] I have great respect for those who run organically. On the part of the Workers' Party, we believe that this can be of great importance to the Convention, which in Norway is fortunately very often close to many ecological standards, globally. I note that in the Greens' Greens' Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, proposal No. 13 proposes that ‘the percentage of organic farming should be escalated’. We know that the Riksrevision has just pointed out that a target has been set by Stortinget which is not realistic by 2020. How effective is it then to start stepping up a goal that several of us see is not within reach?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4353	What the Riksrevision points out is not that the goal is not realistic, but that the Storting has not shown the will to follow the goal they have set themselves. That's two pretty different things. When the Green Party proposes to step up this goal, it is for two reasons. One is that Norwegian consumers increasingly demand organic products and do not receive it sufficiently from Norwegian producers. The fact that we have to have a level of ambition that can respond to an increasing demand for organic products makes us feel reasonable, and we think it makes sense for agriculture itself. In addition, there is a danger that the demand for organic products will increasingly be met with imports of organic products – which in part are a contradiction – which I believe Norwegian agriculture and Stortinget should agree that we will try to avoid.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4362	I do not think the representative Hansson answered the question from Sivert Bjørnstad. What the majority say is that stimulation of organic farming is to continue over the agricultural agreement and that the parties are to decide it. But especially for this with the use of the agricultural resource: we know that production in organic farming is significantly lower and varies with what kind of products it is. Is the representative Hansson really prepared to meet the expectations of increasing the agricultural area in Norway? Massive cultivation must be started, especially of bogs and those types of areas. Is the representative Hansson in agreement with the load it is going to be on land use?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4369	To have a target of 15-20 pst. by Norwegian agriculture as organic means does not imply a massive cultivation of new areas in Norwegian agriculture. It means a limited change, and that means that you can make better use of areas that are currently underutilised. The flexibility to meet such a goal is significant, and I find it strange that the representative of a party that is so concerned about centralising Norwegian agriculture, and so little about keeping living in small uses on the edge, is now suddenly concerned about the area problems that will result from some operating organically and a little more extensive than others in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4375	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4380	Let me start by thanking the Committee for the attitude that is taking place today. I think that for everyone who is an actor in Norwegian agriculture, it's important that we make sure that we are good for good. It does so when the Storting gathers in this setting – in some cases about proposals made by the government, in other cases about compromises developed by the four cooperation parties, and in some cases there are several in Stortinget against the government's proposals. In total, however, this provides a good basis for pursuing agricultural policy over the years. There is this government bid to take responsibility for. And we are, based on today's setting. Because even though I am following the debate here, in so far as a little reacts to both the wording and others in the way the Central Party and the Socialist Left describe Norwegian agriculture, I nevertheless believe that the setting provides a good basis for pursuing a responsible and sensible agricultural policy that assumes that we should increase domestic food production, make sure that we actively use the channelling policy to have food production throughout the country, and not least to preserve the peculiar values of Norwegian food production. Prior to the Committee's initiation of its proceedings, it was essential and central in order to achieve its objectives. For example – as there was a lot of discussion around market mechanisms – the large, important market regimes are, in fact, on e.g. milk and meat solid. Now we have made improvements that also make private actors in e.g. the meat industry can regulate to a greater extent the way market regulator has so far done. There is no one who has spent time on it from the pulpit, but it actually contributes to a healthy competition between the players to a greater extent than before – one of several important steps for which there are now multiples. However, the starting point for this agricultural report is that income trends in Norwegian agriculture are strong – more than twice as strong as for other groups in the period 2014–2017. We've had a higher food production in the last few years than ever. The production target has in fact been in active use during this government period. Cereals have been increasing for the first time since 1991. Female cattle meat production is in spite of the fact that the number of milk production is still falling. Import needs have turned to the potential of the coming years to increase domestic production based mainly on Norwegian feed resources by strengthening production potential. Lamb import needs were reversed to market balance – just these days an overproduction combined with the sale. But Norwegian agriculture has always been changing and developing. That is why this agricultural message is called – simply because agriculture has not been quiet, regardless of who has been in government, it has developed. But it has also been an adventurous structural will in agriculture over the last few years. In 1990, Tine had about 120 daisies. Now they have a little over 30. The slaughter structure has been developing rapidly over the same period. If we had conducted such a policy, it would probably have been called centralization. When agriculture itself has pursued a necessary structural policy in order to be competitive, in order to deliver good results for the farmer, everyone is all aware that this is necessary. I'm glad. This message shows a clear direction, and I said that on the day I went on as Minister of Agriculture, that stamina is de facto decline. I still think so. This message and this committee process mean that we are still moving forward. We also have many new changes, whether they relate to quota regions for milk – which do not go as far as I suggested, but which go in the right direction in spite of considerable resistance from several parties – or we talk about reforming the grazing regime, as I did in my original proposal, in order to strengthen the use of land resources, which have been supported by many, including in the peasantry. I then record that what Storting's plurality stands for, and the compromise on which the government party is also involved means that we are still spending money on cultural pastures. In practice, this means that a greater proportion of pasture land is left in the flatlands of the Jären, rather than being moved to land with a lot of land: in Hordaland, Oppland, Sogn and Fjordane and other counties – de facto impact of the proposal. I accept that the Storting thinks it is appropriate. We're still going to work to make it easier. We're getting more competition in the milk sector. We now receive over time an agronomic training for adults. We get a technology-oriented agriculture that looks at opportunities to increase production. We take care of the key values of Norwegian agriculture over time – safe food production in line with consumer demand. I'm very happy about that. The setting provided today is easy to govern, because it takes care of the basic values that Norwegian agriculture represents, while moving in the right direction. But not as fast as I suggested. The Labour Party and the Center Party can celebrate today, because that's what they do; they celebrate that in some areas they slow down the government, not that they change the policy. I am pleased because it shows that although rhetoric is much clearer than that, it realizes that reform is necessary. In 2014, in 2015 and 2016, this government gained an impact on the reform of the agricultural sector, on changes in arrangements through the agricultural contract negotiations and through the treatment in the Stortinget. It was the Center Party and the Workers' Party against the whole road. Today they recognize that it is the bottom plank. In other words, the centre party has fortunately realized that it is difficult to push the mayonnaise back on the tube. There is one saying for Norwegian agriculture. For those farmers who have invested, for those farmers who depend on forbearance, it's a big thing to say that the Center Party, the Workers' Party and SV realize that the reforms have come to be lasting. I think the working party inside is happy about that, happier than they're expressing in the hall today. But we've also labeled the small customs across the whole district of Norway. The district profile of the tool use I suggested in this message is similar to the one that was when the Center Party ruled – a clear expectation that we, for example. spends more money in the budget on the first pieces of milk produced than on the last, and a clear expectation that we spend more money on maintaining production in districts than in central districts. But in addition to that, I have warned that we need to strengthen the grain economy in the flatlands of Austria to prevent meat production from moving there. These are measures for which a common agricultural policy has always been. There are measures that the Centre Party normally has in place, which they are less in favour of now. But also in 2016 there was a balance in the structure profile. The fourth year's agricultural agreement, which the government delivered to the Stortinget, meant that it was roughly equal to the income development of the small dairy farms as for the large ones. Some parts of Stortinget are trying to construct a discussion that this erases the government's line. It certainly does not, it sticks to the lines that the government has established through the current conversation, dialogue and negotiations with the parties to agriculture. We removed the introduced requirement to move from booths to lay-offs to ensure that operators who had invested in Norwegian milk production would be given better time, for example. – important measures that actively prevent the deactivation of the smallest use. Therefore, I am very pleased with the setting that is currently in place. I mean, it's a good foundation to govern. I'd like us to go further in some areas, open-minded, but I'm absolutely sure and totally convinced of one thing, and that's that it's better to go some steps forward, if maybe a little short, than to stop all the way up. That wouldn't lead us any further.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4403	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4408	As one of the most eager readers of the government.no, I record that the Council of State has now been at a farmer's pub – based on the latest press release from all places at the joint purchase in Volda. That's good enough. And just to make sure he kept his senses when he was there: it was said that everything is going well in Norwegian agriculture, consumers have high confidence, better incomes also in the West, high investments, high productivity growth, less decline in area, increasing grain area, sea supplies with lamb. So today, we see that the government suffers from a great many of its dominant proposals in the news of big business. Does it ever shut down the Council of State, either outside or in the pub, that not continuing such a course – not tearing down market regulation, not tearing down import protection, not cutting the budget, not removing the replacement subsidy – is a prerequisite for having a good time at the Volda pub?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4415	There are probably a lot of reasons to have fun in the pub, and I also have it, even when I drive a car from there. That means I say the same thing when I'm there as I say when I'm here, and there are many reasons why Norwegian agriculture is going well. First of all, Norwegian farmers have the honour of doing so, but we have put up with a policy that has stimulated increased production. The overarching objective set by the Stortinget today is an increased production target. If we are to get to that, I believe that both Knut Storberget and I – at least if we leave this room – can admit that if we are to increase total production, this must lead to some producers producing more tomorrow than they do today. If we're going to do that, it's actually going to have to be a positive stimulus to increase production. When that happens, Knut Storberget has a tendency to think that it contributed to an enormous structure profile, and suggested that only the biggest teeth on it. What I'm busy with is that we can actually increase production, as the Storting is now the goal, and then that's the policy we deliver, that's what's needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4422	Norway is a grassland, and milk production is central to the exploitation of grassland and agriculture throughout the country. The Christian People's Party believes it is fully possible to achieve better quota solutions for the district of 14 regions, based on comparable production conditions, than today's 18 county limits. My question to the Council of State is whether he can reassure my co-representatives who will rather sit still and let the quota leakage run its course, and are not willing to make any necessary adjustments?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4427	Yes, that's what I mean -- if we're able to follow up the remarks that Stortinge gives, by debating us to a sensible device in agriculture. I don't dare to guarantee it until I've tried, but I'm absolutely sure it's possible to make sure that it will prevent milk production from moving into the flatlands of the Austland or into the most easily driven areas of the individual counties, by creating different quota regions that actually provide well-functioning quota regions internally, but at the same time provide for a decentralised production. But it is not the quota regions that are the most important measure of decentralized production, there are two other aspects of agricultural policy that largely govern it. One is the regional policy tools, the ones that actually stimulate production to run decentralised. That's why one, for example, fear that the milk would have moved northwards if one made Troms and Finnmark into one quota region. The second is that farmers – like others – will have a professional environment, and therefore strong producer environments are decisive.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4434	I am very pleased that today we hear a somewhat more humble government council, which announces that it will follow the setting that Stortinget has given. This is in stark contrast to the press release that was sent out only minutes after the committee had come up with its setting. The Council of State wrote, among other things: that "the income target should be targeted against other considerations", which is absolutely not mentioned in the Committee's position, which on the contrary states that one supports an own objective of income, and that it is both an objective and the main instrument for achieving other agricultural policy objectives, and underlines the need for a clearly defined income target. So my question now is: does the Council of State accept what the Committee writes about the income target, or does he still say his own interpretation that this could be counterbalanced?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4441	I follow the agreed policy of the Storting, and it says, among other things. to improve the means of income for agriculture. That means that we can't guarantee them that if one, for example. not having good market fitment and productivity development, which is an important prerequisite for the generation of income. So I'll give the Christian People's Party honor for formulating a sensible income target. I have also followed the debate afterwards and seen that the centre party has tried to appear to be the big driver for it. It is with respect to report as far as I know not right. But the understanding that is in the setting of the day is possible for me to follow up. At the same time, the agricultural report we have delivered clearly states that it is necessary to assess the income target against other considerations. It is also said by the Storting when it says that good market fitment and productivity development are an important element of income formation. In other words, we can assume that if a lack of ability to balance the market over time, it is also difficult to promise agriculture incomes that are higher than they are willing to work for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4450	I noticed that the Council of State said that he made the decision of Storting, and that is quite correct, some other reason the government does not have to act within, so she has to base it on it. After the processing of the message in Stortinget, the frames of the government proposed and the final result have changed. Of course, we can discuss how much, how little, etc., but it's changed. Can the Councils tell us a little about how this will shape his work in the future, for example: the main objective has changed significantly, how has the income target changed? How will this affect the way the State Council works? How will this change the way the State Council enforces its action?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4455	In connection with the discussion of the agricultural notification, the Committee sent me several dozen questions. Sometimes it might be tempting to remind you that when one asks so many questions, it would be okay if one reads the answer, for example. related to how I have assessed this with cost-effective food production. In the answer to question 1 and question 39, for example, which the committee sent me, and which I answered on 6 February, I say that based on the discussion that arose, I realize that my wording allowed for misinterpretation. In an academic discussion about ranking the priority of targets, in many contexts, we can call cost-effective food production a tool or strategy. Several games on the Storting have made it a big discussion. But I explained this in February, and it surprises me that SV first found it out now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4461	In the big message, the government says: ‘The self-sufficiency rate corrected for imports of feed should not be a result target for increased food production based on Norwegian resources.’ Further: ‘In view of consumers and the relationship with our trading partners, it would not be appropriate to use the WTO action space to increase customs duties’.» These are the main negative statements of the government's agricultural policy. Fortunately, in the setting of the Food Committee, the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV support the correction of the degree of maritime supply for imports of feed as the result target for Norwegian food production. Furthermore, the same parties say that they do not ‘support the government’s proposal not to use the WTO operating space’. For the Centre Party, this is forward-looking with such broad support both for the social tasks of agriculture and for the use of the space for action in the WTO Agreement concluded. I expect that what is happening here has made the impression on the Minister of Agriculture, and that the government will follow up in the coming days.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4480	What I write in the agricultural message about the degree of self-sufficiency is relatively similar to what the then state council Lars Peder Breck thought about the degree of self-sufficiency in the previous agricultural message. In any case, if the Storting now changes position, it comes primarily from the fact that the Center Party has got with the Labour Party to change positions in these questions. That's what's new about the processing of this agricultural message. There I think in all liberality I can give the Center Party honor. One thing is that one thing in some areas is that government is slowing down its positions, but it is the Labour Party that is in charge of the agricultural policy in the setting. The Labour Party has never before meant the same thing as the Centre Party, that the best way to drive Norwegian agriculture forward was to try to stand still as far as possible and hope it helped.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4485	We heard after the discharge and also now in the article to the Council of State here today that he is very pleased with the result of the treatment here in Stortinget. At my discretion, the Council of State must also act like a belly pad, facing all the things that he can't get through. Can the Council of State elaborate on the basis of his satisfaction, in view of the defeats he has suffered?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4490	I may be misinterpreting or thinking too well about myself, but I believe that I am initially relatively democratic. That means that I respect the majority in Stortinget and that we have a minority government that has a partnership agreement with two parties, which means that we're trying to figure out the best solutions. The solutions usually find these four pieces together. I think it's an expression of a relatively democratic attitude. If I were to be dissatisfied every time I had to compromise, I would probably have been about as dissatisfied as the Labour Party appears to be over its lack of influence on agricultural policy. In total, I'm very happy that we have made changes that make us more flexible quota regions. We will be able to strengthen the channelling policy. We get a better division of labour in agriculture. Then we have made changes that stimulate the use of outreach pastures, and changes that make it possible for farmers to spend their money on marketing more effectively, that we can strengthen production facilities, that we have better investments, that we can continue to strengthen investment agencies. I could go on forever, but it doesn't allow time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4495	It doesn't make time for that. Now the line chord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4500	Today, we are addressing a message that presides for one of Norway’s most important industries — an industry whose main task is to produce safe and safe food, important in terms of both preparedness and climate, and which, not least, contributes to high employment and value creation through the use of natural resources throughout Norway. In the Labour Party, we have high ambitions for Norwegian agriculture. Our agricultural platform, Green Growth, was the first document we presented in opposition, and there we say that food production needs to be increased, and that we are going to have an agriculture across the country. When the Minister presented the communication in December, it was a glorification — an ominous description — of Norwegian agriculture. However, when one read the communication, one quickly realized that the measures and proposals presented were a clear attack on the entire Norwegian agricultural model. During the consultation in the committee, there was virtually no one who supported the government's proposal. Yes, even a fire has been burned all over the country to tell us about the danger that Norwegian agriculture was exposed to. That is why it is good to note today that the majority of the Grand Duchy is not in many of the proposals that emerged. Never before in my view has a minister suffered such a defeat in Stortinget in connection with a message – and I stress the message – that has been submitted, and I believe that the representative Pollestad has his statements in mind in the matter that the Council of State Helgesen presented today, to which he was given zero consent. That was a proposition. Firstly, the Stortinget has now defined a clear main objective of agricultural policy, namely to increase food production on the basis of Norwegian land resources – not a cost-effective agriculture as the main objective. We get clear leads that the government can no longer take from the small uses and give to the large ones. In addition, the Stortinget has set a clear income target for the future. But this is not the only thing, and if you look at the list that several people have been on, the Storting has rejected the following proposal: a cost-effective food production shall be the main objective of Norwegian food production; Winding-up of the redundancy grant, for holidays and leisure winding-up of the early retirement scheme the liquidation of the market balance for goat’s milk; reduction in the number of milk regions from 18 to 10 – the majority has reduced it to 14 the closure of the market balance in the egg sector; responsibilities of the Directorate for Agriculture for the management of necessary measures in the egg sector liquidate the market balance in the cereals sector responsibilities of the Directorate of Agriculture for the administration of the necessary measures in the cereals sector liquidating the market balance for apples liquidating the market balance for food potatoes And in the case of grants for pasture, it is now to be maintained. That's when I find it strange to hear that the minister afterwards still says good pleasure. The Workers' Party's view on the notification has been clarified through our comments and through the 20-point list that we went out with in-depth processing, together with the Centre Party. Today, the Stortinge gives clear leadership on how we want to develop Norwegian agriculture in the future, leading things that I now expect the government to take on board in the forthcoming agricultural negotiations. But I have noticed that the government is still coming with new attacks on Norwegian agriculture. The fight to ensure settlement and agriculture throughout the country does not end with the treatment of this message today. We have now received proposals on amendments to concession law, soil law, odelslags and price control at the Liaison Committee’s table. Then there will be a new battle in this Chamber that can help us succeed or not with the goals that we are adopting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4551	The Agriculture Communication is about the future of both the practitioners and industry. Here, a forward trajectory is to be drawn. The background to the Communication is, and must be, changing the world and facing new demands and challenges for agriculture. If we look at developments in a historical perspective, the industry has been subject to a major transformation from the 1950s to the present. The channelling policy that we got at the beginning of the 1950s and the technological developments that took off at the same time changed agriculture forever. In 1950, 844 million hours were spent in agriculture. The operations were versatile, and even small farms had cows. In 1959, the average dairy cows were four cows. In 2015, the average crew was 25.6 cows, and the number of hours was down to 92 million. Technological developments have been formidable during the same period – from hand milking to robotic milking, from horse and cart to tractor, from self-binding and threshing to harvesters, from versatile operations to specialisation, from many hands to few hands, from a soothing life to empty operating buildings, from being a job for many to becoming a part-time job for the few and with substantial income from other work. It may sound like a slowdown, but the conclusion is that hardly anyone wants to return to the time and all the physically heavy work that is behind the 1950s, or at the time when vacation and leisure were definitely an unknown concept for many. The development of agriculture has helped the agricultural population to share in the overall development of wealth that has benefited the general population. The farmers have been good at using new knowledge and technology. Research has played a role with professionals in a necessary symbiosis. Some have gone ahead, and others have followed. This has led us today to a long way in technological development and genetics. In addition, we have healthy animals and efficient production. The fear that major herds will undermine animal welfare has not been activated. Today, new quantum leaps are taking place in technological development. Automation and robotization are speeding. A new concept of precision agriculture has been introduced, where robotics technology allows the use of both pesticides, fertilisers and fuels to be reduced. When this government joined, they wanted to change their course in relation to what had been in force for some years – not for the sake of change, but because the world around us had changed. The reality we live in has changed. One cannot solve the challenges of the future by clinging to the past. If the status quo were the target, you wouldn't need an agricultural message. The main objective of agricultural policy shall be to increase food production in order to meet the needs of a growing population. If this is to be successful, it will have to facilitate the good development of the agricultural industry for small and large uses throughout the country. But then you have to give those who are willing to bet, the law and the ability to do just that. The financial prerequisites for investing and operating must be good enough to enable an operator to renew and deploy new technology. With such a sharp reduction in the number of hours spent in agriculture as we have seen throughout the post-war period, the role of agriculture in rural policy will have to be seen in a broader context than in the past. There is a need for a wider range of jobs in rural areas — not everyone can be full-time farmers. If the settlement is to be maintained, there must be a range of other attractive jobs in a reasonable vicinity that can meet the needs of the inhabitants. Agricultural policy must be designed to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian food producers. Norwegian agriculture faces competition for labour and capital — from other industries and from non-resident food producers. It is therefore essential that agricultural policy enables farmers to meet these developments. Norway is a grassland where the agricultural area is best suited for the production of roughage. Only 3 pst. of Norway's area of 325 million deer is arable and only one third of this is suitable for cereal production. With so little cultivated land, it is clear that the land area becomes extremely important. 138 million plots of land are considered useful for grazing. This must also be taken into account in order to understand the high level of conflict in predatory policies. In Norway, the use of pasture land is more important than in most other countries. If there's something we can learn from the past, then it's that the opportunities that lie in the future are going to be put into practice with or without the blessing of politicians. It's always been like that. It provides a basis for optimism.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4579	In this case, there has been a need to park government policies, centralisation that do not help us to exploit land all over the country, and cover operations that are called simplifications, but which are, in fact, removing the farmer's subsidy scheme, and there have been a number of attacks on instruments in the Norwegian agricultural model. The government's proposal is negative for Western farms, because the operational reviews show that the average income of farmers in the Western counties has now remained calm. It was alarming to receive a communication aimed at improving the efficiency of agriculture, in the sense of being cost-effective, with minimum labour input for fewer and larger uses. This would also have affected Western farms, which are made up of many small uses and have a geographical and structural operational disadvantage. It is therefore good for the Stortinget to state so clearly that the government's proposal for a new target is not adopted. I am pleased that the entire committee determines that a living agriculture and grazing animals are a prerequisite for maintaining the landscape, which has received world heritage status along the coast. The government's recipe has been wrong, and it's quite true that you're now putting your foot down. The Committee considers that a significant operational profile needs to be maintained in the agricultural policy instruments. This needs to be done to ensure increased food production based on Norwegian resources. The government's concern about increasing competition and adapting to increased free trade in agricultural products will also affect us – the increased centralisation of the government's production of eggs and white meat: the same. The government's prioritisation of landslides at the expense of inland pastures is also unfortunate for the coast, as part of our most valuable cultural landscape is inland land. I have to say that I am wondering how the government is putting up simplifications. They still want to reduce the number of grant schemes, which contribute to a more rough system and which become less accurate. On average, farmers spend half an hour twice a year — perhaps less — completing the application form for production grants. The farmers are clear that this is not the time, but that they want a fine-skinned network of grant schemes that meet them. It is not surprising that the government would weaken the welfare arrangements, but it is regrettable. The income target proposed by the government was lower than that expressed by the majority of the Stortinget in the last agricultural settlement. The government proposed to reduce the number of milk quota regions from 18 to 10, but when the entry into the discussion is how few regions there may be, rather than looking at how to set up borders to better ensure border areas, it all becomes an ideological siding. So it's good that the bulk of the population put their feet down at this point too, so the reduction doesn't get as dramatic as the Right and the Advance Party actually suggested. I would like to thank the entire committee and, in particular, the rapporteur and the agricultural spokespersons who have done a great job in this matter. The fact that the Storting is now turning the message from being a document The Farm would burn, to adopt a policy the farmers applaud, is good. This gives a better response to future Norwegian agriculture. The majority has now rejected a number of government proposals and has clearly shown that the Stortinget will in a different direction for Norwegian agriculture than this government. The Labour Party will maintain today's objective of agricultural policy, and we are pleased that a clear majority of the majority in the UK now state that the main objective of agricultural policy is to continue to be increased Norwegian food production on the basis of Norwegian resources. For the Workers' Party, it is also important to have a clear income target and to facilitate increased profitability throughout the Norwegian food value chain. Last but not least, it has been important for us to call for cooperative market regulation, safe, not weak, the welfare arrangements for farmers and ensure strong import protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4602	I think we can agree that it slows down as well as you can, but something more is not achieved. It is in itself a minority government's life that you have to negotiate and maybe not get through everything you want, but when you get back to the results that are created, I think we should be satisfied. Agriculture is a very important industry, but it is also exposed to something that is about as strong as gravity, and that is the increase in wealth actually taking place in society. We were a primary industry society, we've been through the industrial community, and then we're into the service community, we free labour to move into the service society. This means that much of the agricultural labour force is being released. I think Nils Aage Igstad's posts were quite thoughtful. It has gone from approx. 850 million hours down to approx. 90 million hours in a 50-year period, so you produce more food. I worked at the Agricultural College in the 1980s, and there was a professor who had calculated this for Norwegian forestry. He had taken the productivity growth from the 1950s until then and extended it, and then he had come to the conclusion that we would be one employee in Norwegian forestry in 2050, and then he said: We are currently ahead of the forecast. This does not mean that the industry is becoming less important — each of them actually becomes much more important — but it is also doing the job that everyone sees themselves doing when you see it from a historical perspective. Again, as Nils Aage Igstad said, it has been a fantastic development of wealth that agriculture has thus also contributed very strongly to, and the individual farmer is very good at using new technology, to use the opportunities that are, and I don't think you can stop that. So what's really my question is what's the most offensive -- whether it's trying to make a policy that takes this development seriously, or whether it's trying to slow down as much as possible, and then in a few years we'll find out that, well, it actually went as you could expect, that productivity growth continued. I think our policy has produced precisely those results, and I am a little surprised at the language used by the pulpit. Looking at the results, investments are rising, and recruitment – which should perhaps be the main goal of success – has risen sharply. The application for higher education has gone up by 20 pst. We have suddenly become self-sufficient in a number of things that were lacking under red-green rule, among other things. Lamb meat. We have a self-sufficiency rate that goes up instead of down, as it did with the red-greens, and there are a number of arrows pointing in the right direction. Then I am amazed that you use words like "mageplask" and that you have parked this policy. It should really be quite thoughtful for the opposition to park such a policy when you come from a time when the arrows actually pointed in a completely different direction. So I'm going to comment a little bit on preparing for the future, because cost-effectiveness has been discussed. I don't think an industry is going to be cost-effective, and in addition, we know that there is an industry that consists of self-employed people, who are extremely concerned about being cost-effective. We also know that Norwegian food is good, clean, and there is little antibiotic use, but it's expensive. Then you have to have a perspective on becoming cost-effective, because we know that the world around us is going to be more open, because that's our very welfare depending on, and once again, the question is, are you most honest with an industry by preparing it for the world that comes, or are you the most deserving of braking? It's a little bit in the nature of agriculture that you have to black paint things because you're in a negotiating situation with the state, and the state has a very strong grip on the industry, but I hope you can see that most people want agriculture well, it's a good development in the industry under the government that's now sitting, and you could actually admit that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4615	We all have a relationship with agriculture, with food and with food production. Many have been at play this spring. The exposure has been enormous against the Progress Party and the Right's agricultural message, which would have led food production in the wrong direction. Most of the suggestions in the message have met unison resistance from a whole industry, and you can wonder: Where does the government take away all of these suggestions? The fact that the Storting also at this time lowers the foothold of the government's agricultural policy is crucial for many of the proposals from the Right and the Advance Party not only want to change Norwegian agriculture, but actually also to participate in and change Norway. The Labour Party insists that we must build on the pillars of Norwegian agriculture that have lit our country well: strong import protection, cooperative market mechanisms, agricultural negotiations and legal instruments that secure the self-owned farmer. The right-hand party government will have more competition, more market and more efficient use of resources. At the top of the whole, they would also redefine the objectives that the Stortinget has previously brought together in agricultural policy. Cost-effectiveness would become a new main goal for Norwegian agriculture. In Sogn and Fjordane, where I come from, the smallest are used in persuasion. We have some medium-sized uses, but with our geography and topography, it's not possible to use the size of the Irons. It's just like that. And so there are many places in our country. In addition, different climates occur in different parts of the country. If the Right Party and the Progress Party had had an impact on their policies, the result would have been even more centralisation of food production and an additional priority for large-scale use. This would not have lit Sogn and Fjordane. On the Labour Party's side, we have been concerned that a more rough network of tools will destroy the possibilities of achieving the agricultural policy objectives, and that it will reduce the possibilities of targeting schemes and of taking geographical considerations. Our country looks different, and then we need different tools to be able to farm all over the country. I also want to pull out this stuff by removing systems and calling it simplification. Among other things, welfare schemes should be simplified, both holiday and leisure agents and an early pension scheme should be abolished. Several changes would actually have been irreversible. It's not that easy to get the toothpaste back into the tube once he's out. I don't know what's going on with the Progress Party's agricultural councils when, on a case-by-case basis, they say they're good enough for their decisions to be voted down. But one thing can at least be clear: it's not enough to be born and raised on a garden to become a good minister of agriculture, one must actually have a beating heart for the industry, and one must be willing to listen to the industry. That's the most important thing. Why is agriculture doing well, even if the Progress Party and the Right are in charge? That's precisely because the Bigholding repeatedly stops the policy of the Progress Party and the Right, for example. pass the import protection system. The majority today are voting down all the points that both the representative Omland and the representative Pollestad mentioned in the debate, and today's policy is so right and good, why promote the Right and the Progress Party, then an agricultural message that scraps important elements of agricultural policy? The right-hand party rule goes on an agrarian belly puzzle and at the same time manufactures it as if they are very satisfied with the result. So it is only symbolism that – and politicians who just want to pursue symbolism policies should not rule the country. They should get downloaded as soon as possible, because that's not how we run a country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4638	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4644	Agricultural policy is preparedness policy. Agricultural policy is an industrial policy. Agricultural policy is tradition and history – just look at the pictures behind it. The only nutritional activity you see is ploughing land – a beautiful image. Then we have a government council today that boasts violently of the income development of agriculture – it's so great, everything is so brilliant, and everything goes to heaven with the Progress Party in government. Let me go through the income heads for heads. The decline in interest rates alone amounts to NOK 21 500 per year, as there is a great deal of debt in Norwegian agriculture. When the interest rate goes down, it seems that the revenue goes up to NOK 21 500. When you get a market balance, for example. in the case of pigs, it constitutes approximately: NOK 8 000 per year. When TINE has managed to operate well, it has made a refund of approx. NOK 11 000 per year. There, alone, because of agricultural measures and because of interest rates, agricultural income as calculated has risen by DKK 40000 per year. So Stortinget went in and overthrew the government of the first farm and added 250 million. kr more, because we were not satisfied with what the government had done. That's $5,500 per year. In the show list that Jon Georg Dale came up with, it's about $5,000, so that's the huge impact of the agricultural policy of the Progress Party. When one starts to look at how the Progress Party has settled its agricultural settlements, what has been done about it is to increase prices in the market through increasing the target price and through the fact that market regulators have had a better price path, among other things. on beef. If the Progress Party had not had customs protection, the revenue would have fallen, and then it is very interesting to read the Progress Party's proposal for the programme. What does that say? It says ‘that Norwegian customs duties and protective regimes are removed over time. ‘It is the aim of the Progress Party, while the Council of State states in the evening of 12 April that ‘it is not intended to be the Minister of Agriculture and does not believe that the protection of imports is important for Norwegian agriculture.’ There is a very strong contrast between what the Council of State says and what is the aim of the Progress Party. What we have to remember when discussing Norwegian agriculture is that 70 pst. the income of Norwegian agriculture comes through market incomes. Let me give you a very specific example: the milk price in Norway is approximately. 3 kr higher than the milk price in Sweden. The difference is customs protection. Then it won't pay to have 1 million liters in the quota. Then it's worth having 0 in the quota if we had such a milk price in Norway. Norwegian agriculture is completely dependent on customs protection. So my challenge to Minister of Agriculture Jon Georg Dale is: does the Council of State support the wording of the programme that Norwegian customs duties and protection regimes should be removed over time, or does the Council of State think that this is an unwise wording?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4659	Agriculture is one of our most important industries and deserves a thorough political debate and a very big message. The communication has created a debate throughout the country and in many environments. That's good. It shows that agriculture is an industry in which there is involvement and interest. Unfortunately, I should like the debate to stay at a slightly more factual level than we have seen from some. Is it really so bad in Norwegian agriculture that you have to have teeth around the whole country? In my opinion, the answer to that question is a conditional no. I will claim to know the industry quite well. When I'm in the pantry, I experience a completely different optimism and belief in the future for the industry than what some have presented here from this pulpit. Under this government, the conditions for very many have improved significantly. Under the previous government, there were many who were cost-effective, as they experienced nothing left for what they had made of large investments to produce more efficiently. That is why I believe that the proposal to tackle support, which the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV promote, is to go backwards into the future. Much technological progress has also been made in agriculture. About one third of milk producers have invested in milk robots. One has received automated feeding systems, partially automated harvesting lines and operating systems that provide a basis for higher unit and annual production. Fewer and larger farms are a natural development that we have to build rather than create obstacles to. In this context, it is worth mentioning that the number of agricultural holdings has been reduced by only 1.9 pst. per year relative to 2.4 pst. under the previous government. There is a broad political consensus that we are going to have agriculture across the country, and that agriculture has important social functions besides just producing food. For this reason, it is also widely agreed that agriculture must have State aid schemes in line with many other industries. That being said, the farmer is a nutritionist who wants the best bottom line possible, like all other nutritionists. There is no contrast between good quality, good animal welfare and good economy. On the contrary, larger and more rational holdings show less disease, better animal welfare and increased production. I hope that the positive developments for which this government has laid the foundation will continue in the future. Our job is to facilitate development and build up those who want to bet. In this way, we will ensure increased food production and agriculture across the country, while maintaining our status as the best and freshest animal husband.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4672	Food production is important. We have to produce more food, both because we're growing more in Norway, and also because we're not going to be so dependent on importing food. But we also have to produce more niche food – we get a little bit more creamy when we get more money between our hands. We also see a trend in which more people are trying to develop brands. My colleague, Pål Farstad, was concerned about what cheese production at Tingvoll has brought. Very few industries are betting on part - time workers, so the full - time farmer is important. There has been an important issue for the Left in agricultural policy over these four years. In order to ensure sustainability of agriculture in Norway, we need to ensure the full-time farmer’s status. However, we also need to secure the specialty farmer, in the case of Tingvoll, who is going to produce that cheese or try to develop a new agricultural product. The diversity is also important. Around Mjösa and in the areas where I travel a lot, fortunately we have some of them who dare to try and dare to bet, not least on vegetable production and green production. We've seen new products. We've seen new ways of storing it. We've seen new ways of distributing, for example. from Mat of the Toten and other actors on the Toten, who find both their niches and their large volume markets. Fortunately, green consumption is rising. In this regard: I have heard little about the information offices in the debate here, but the Information Office on Fruit and Vegetables is particularly important. There is no clear majority on how to continue the information offices. There is a great deal of consensus about the importance of fruit and vegetables, it also says the industry itself, because the economy in the industry is demanding, because one does not have so many other players to play on in the industry to front it, and because there is price pressure among the chains to sell. A share of consumer consumption that is also interesting to see is that we are brewing so much microbes that the demand for products to it is increasing. Nibio Apelsvoll on Toten says that here the sector has a job of filling up agricultural products. So there are possibilities. The grain area around Mjösa is also of particular importance. That's why one of them is doing a little bit of work: the 14 quota regions. We then have the opportunity to secure milk production in the valleys and to ensure continued growth in the grain production around Mjösa and in other areas where it is beneficial to produce cereals. It is a grip that we have not seen so much in agricultural policy in Norway in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4687	There was a lot of focus from the opposition today on the elements and things for which the government may not have got multiples, and the less focus on what they actually got multiples, and not least the consequences of government policy. In the period we have had, it has produced very good results for the agricultural industry. The framework conditions are so good that both the investment will and the willingness to produce are record high. More lamb is produced than for a long time, and it must be for Tryve Battle Force Vedum's great surprise. The self-sufficiency rate has risen by three percentage points, from 47 pst. 50 pst, while falling from 53 pst. to 47 pst. with the previous government. The part of Norwegian raw materials in the feed has increased by 12 pst. The highest activity in forestry is record high. The government invests heavily in investments in forest roads and timber markets. The number of applicants for education before agriculture is very good. It is optimism, agriculture is in good development and income development is very good. Then I get very surprised at the rhetoric of the Center Party and the Labour Party today. There's talk of collapse and of a gastric plaque and about parking the government and ideological sidings. I think there must be a lack of willingness to recognize what the government has actually achieved. The criticism from the Center Party and the Labour Party actually falls on rock floor if we look at what they were able to achieve when they were in government. We can read from the Official Journal of Bergen on 27 March 2009: ‘Earth use is reduced faster than ever and centralisation is as strong as before. Three years with the Central Party in government have not reversed the flight from the towns.» Furthermore, it said: ‘In 2008 cultivated land disappeared corresponding to 8000 football courts.’ And on the other hand, ‘In 2008 alone, 16,500 covers of agricultural land were converted into roads, buildings and other purposes. This means that about 100 farms were destroyed for all future generations." The centralisation was speeding up with the Central Party and the Labour Party in the Government, and in the same article in the Official Journal of Bergen we can read: ‘The population of metropolitan regions has increased by more than eight per cent since 2004. In the same period, the population of the peripheral municipalities has fallen by 4.1 per cent.» It must then be allowed to ask both the Central Party and the Labour Party here today whether the results they produced in government were better for agriculture and for the districts than the results produced by the government of Solberg. I think the answer gives itself, it's just to look at the outcome of the policy that this government has developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4719	Norwegian agriculture gives us food of high quality. It's both safe and good. We have to take care of this. I am pleased that the Stortinget in this message has set a clear direction for our agriculture and states that we want more Norwegian food production. If we're going to be able to increase food production, we're going to have to make use of our entire country, and this is what the Christian People's Party wants to facilitate. We believe in the small uses and our rural agriculture and believe that we need them, along with greater use, to meet the ambitious production target and to exploit production opportunities across the country. This message now, after the work of the Biggest, facilitates precisely this – an active and diverse agriculture, which uses our resources in every crick and hook of our country. This message ensures rural agriculture by continuing and strengthening instruments differentiated by geography and structure. There will now be a distortion of the instruments against small and medium-sized applications. We know that, in particular, the power-feed-based production is important for many combined use in the districts. Unlike the government, which wants their location to be market-driven, the Christian People's Party believes that we should continue to ensure framework conditions that allow the geographic distribution of today's production to continue. The Christian People's Party also supports the stepping down of subsidies per animal at increased operational levels, because it is natural for them to rely mainly on market revenues with a certain production scope. This will help and provide a better basis for the small and medium-sized applications in rural areas. It has been said earlier in this debate that milk production is the backbone of our agriculture. I fully agree with that description, but it is called a warning. In my home country, More and Romesdal, there were 1272 dairy farms 15 years ago, and today there are 789 dairy farms again. That is why I will also raise the Christian People's Party's rescue plan for the average dairy industry, and that the Stortinget is today making sure that it facilitates increased investment for these uses. This is essential for motivating the owners of such uses for, inter alia: building or constructing new agricultural buildings on the basis of which they have – this is because we will continue to have active and diverse agriculture throughout the country in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4738	Norwegian farmers produce safe, high-quality food. Animal health and animal welfare are very good, the use of antibiotics is the lowest in the world, and the knowledge of the earth is also very high. It yields good crops, with low consumption of sprays. This is very good, and that's how we still want it. Our agricultural policy has been designed with its own hand and aims to ensure that food production is high. Food must be produced throughout the country, and it must be effective. We have so far succeeded quite well with this. Farming across the country is important for preparedness for unimaginable events. In our country it is possible to grow on only at the base of 3 pst. of the area. In addition, we have a climate and a topography that makes our crops cost more to produce than in other countries. We will never be able to reach a volume that makes us big farmers on the world market, even though Norwegian farmers have been at the end of productivity in Norway for many years. But we want them to produce clean, safe and good Norwegian food. If we are to achieve a viable agriculture throughout the country, we need effective import protection, cooperation, agricultural negotiations and self-farming farmers. Then the medicine, as the government prescribes, is not to weaken this. In addition, of course, farmers must have income in line with other social groups and welfare schemes such as others. The objective must be met through tools that provide profitability for both larger and smaller use. The government's proposal for an agricultural notification would have led to less operation, closure of agricultural property, less productive land and degradation of the areas where the pasture is currently kept open by grazing animals. This would in the long run have led to a decline in food production, and the need for imports of food into the population would have increased — a paradox at a time when powerful countries buy land abroad in order to feed their own population in the future. Food could be a buttoning factor for the future. Countries paying for food production in their own country will be more strongly equipped to meet the future. If we're going to achieve the UN's new sustainability goal, where goal one is to eradicate poverty, and goal two is to eradicate hunger, it's both morally and ethically right to produce food for our own population as far as we can, rather than buy it out of the mouth of those who need it where they live. That is why it has been important for the Centre Party to push back as many of the government's negative proposals as possible, as the case rapporteur explained, and keep our tongues in the mouth, so that we both take care of the food soil, ensure safe production and increase the profitability of the users.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4751	At first I want to say thank you for the food, not to the council, but to all the good farmers who produce food in Norway under, sometimes, quite difficult conditions. Now that the Council of State has stripped off the figures – with which he adorns himself – he is left with NOK 5000 in increase over three years, which is not exactly something to boast about. I expect that his own salary increases may have looked a little different in this period of time. When we also know that the government has been on the farmers, and perhaps also on the government's side in these years, it's a little bit strange to hear that the government parties and the councils are trying not to take on the fact that they are actually going on a huge defeat in the Storing today. The policies they have pursued and presented have been rejected on important points, and that is good. We have even heard from the pulpit that taking climate considerations is not forward-looking, and that having pensions and redemption schemes is probably something very old-fashioned, which you should have gotten rid of. At least I haven't heard a single person in the agricultural industry who shared that view. On the contrary, welfare schemes are also important in agriculture if you want someone to stay there. Growing up doesn't make you less dependent on state transfers, you become more dependent on state transfers. So bad it is that when you've turned the grants more and more over into the big ones and they've invested, they're so indebted that it's almost impossible to turn it back again. Getting it that way is what the government wanted, but it is in stark contradiction to having to run agriculture all over the country, with the small soil patches and the small soil resources that are many places. The goal for us to do that is the Stortinget, and then we just have to have a different policy. The Lachmus Test will also consist for those who make up the majority here today, of all parties, when we're going to vote on the farm plan in a few weeks. The councils have now been given marshalls in a different direction than the one he has pointed out. Then it must also be that the majority who have today parked the government's agricultural policy is willing to stand up for it when the agricultural settlement comes to the Stortinget. If that is not good enough or is not in line with those leaderships, the settlement must be returned to the government, with the task of returning with a settlement that is in line with the assumptions. It's the Grandfather's duty.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4762	Usually we refer to the agricultural notification when it comes to referring to the adopted policy base for agricultural policy. We can't do that after today's treatment. Now we have to refer to the agricultural situation, since the main elements of the government's agricultural policy are set aside for the majority of the population. The remaining words in the vote are: the majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Right and the Advance Party. The size has taken the necessary job of designing agricultural policy objectives and measures, which are completely different from the government's proposals. I want to commend the Business Committee for taking on the task of correcting a policy that would lead to food degradation, a weakening of Norwegian resources, poor future prospects for small and medium-sized applications in our fjord and mountain communities, and the need for many professionals in food production. I represent an area of the country where agriculture plays a major role. In mountain areas, we have a high level of food production, where we use resources in rural areas and create jobs, both in primary production and in the processing industry. Without agriculture, settlements in several municipalities would look bad. The government's agricultural policy has been burdensome to us. The proposal in the Agriculture Communication would remove the belief in the future for many young people who wonder if they are willing to bet on a future as farmers. It looked dark after the Minister of Agriculture's presentation of the agricultural message. It looks a little brighter after the Business Committee has issued a position that corrects government policy in critical areas. In the committee's position, it is shown, inter alia, that: the contribution of agriculture to important common resources, such as: open cultural landscapes, safe food, food preparedness and housing throughout the country. This is an important emphasis for us which represents those parts of the country that are referred to as marginal because they are characterized by small uses and limited production opportunities. We have good grasslands in the mountain areas, and we have large outlying areas, but there's little room for the government's desire for more size. If we are to maintain the level of self-sufficiency, we must also exploit the grasslands of fjords and mountain areas. Rooms must be provided for both full-time and part-time use. In return, society receives quality food, a cultural landscape maintained in claim, and rural communities across the country that can offer jobs in primary production, supply and processing industries. The population wants such communities. The government doesn't prioritize it. In the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee, it is stressed that mountain farming has proved to be a good contribution to the development and recruitment of agriculture in these areas. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4779	The social mission of agriculture is to produce natural safe food in a volume that provides a high degree of maritime supply of agricultural food from Norwegian land. It is the Norwegian consumer who is in the centre, it is the Norwegian consumer who is the contracting entity. Farmers and the food industry are necessary instruments. In order to carry out the social mission, it is necessary to improve the profitability of production in farms and in the food industry. People's health is promoted through healthy food and healthy drinks. When the quality of Norwegian agricultural food is systematically improved, we are in a pact with an important international trend. Fortunately, it is getting stronger and the conscious consumer is driving the debate forward. Important here is the reduction in the use of antimicrobial additives and resistance-promoting preparations and the eradication of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in the food. In this way, Norwegian agricultural products will be preferred by consumers, because we are actually establishing a green import protection. The alliance between chicken producers and parts of the food trade, with the Norway Top Group, which removed the antibiotic narasin in the chicken feed, is an example for follow-up. To the Council of State: Narasin and monensin must now also be prohibited under Norwegian law. It is a step forward in the formulation that all parties, except the Right and the Advance Party, are in favour of consumers making informed choices and thus exercising their consumer power. Both the labelling of food contents and information on the origin, mode of production and price of food are important information for consumers. The majority are in favour of providing comparable information on the nutritional content, ingredients, price, origin of the product, allergies and where the goods can be purchased. It's very important and positive, from the Center Party's point of view. These majority comments must be followed up. We can do that by looking at Switzerland, where there are already requirements for product declarations on the menu of the meat served in the restaurants. Meat which may have been produced with antibiotics or GMOs in the feed is marked on the Swiss menu. That's how we have to get it in Norwegian restaurants. In order to carry out what is here a social mission, agricultural policy must promote better profitability in Norwegian areas, with the climatic, topographical and arronistic conditions that we have. Therefore, it is necessary to increase the cereal and co-feed price, as a whole. In order to increase the degree of maritime supply, we need larger agricultural areas and a more fertile soil, which can produce larger crops. We need the many small agricultural areas across the country, but it has to pay off. Norwegian agriculture produces domestically. We have to stop looking at Denmark as our model. We need to get a new course. Danish export agriculture is on the rim both economically, ecologically and socially. This fact must be spread every day. That's why we have to look at Switzerland. It is important to combine anchoring and innovation. I'm glad that what I'm telling you here is still getting more excitement. But I'm a realist, people with a course for Denmark still have power in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4798	First of all, I am pleased that the majority of the Business Committee wants a different direction for Norwegian agriculture than the Right-Fremskrit party government proposes. Fortunately, most of the proposals from the Right-Fremskritsparte-government have been rejected in the position of the Business Committee on the Agriculture Communication. The government and Minister of Agriculture Dales mantra on more competition and the market is currently being parked by the majority of the population, even if they are trying to get away from it. Agricultural production in Norway needs to increase as population changes develop. It is then necessary to pursue an agricultural policy that takes the whole country into operation. If we are to achieve these objectives, agricultural policy must facilitate strong agriculture throughout the country, with increased profitability for all sizes of use, not just for the major uses. The Labour Party and the majority of the Committee agree that the main objective of agricultural policy should be Norwegian food production on the basis of Norwegian resources. The size does not support the proposal to almost halve the number of milk quota regions. The proposal would have dramatic consequences for milk production throughout the country. Unfortunately, the Christian People's Party and the Left support a reduction to 14 regions. Norwegian agriculture is an industry for the future, and the government should be far more offensive and done more to increase employment. Today's government is pursuing an agricultural policy that is moving in the wrong direction, but until the harvest this can be changed by voting for a new government with a new agricultural policy. In particular, there will be a need for significant investments in the future; there is an investment need of more than 20 billion. kr, but the government has used the budgets and agricultural budgets to propose cuts in measures. Norwegian agriculture deserves better, and more implementation is needed to ensure strong agriculture throughout the country and not just a favoured use, as we have seen now. For Northern and Northern Norway, the continuation of this policy will be dramatic, not least because we mainly have small and medium-sized applications. The government proposes to reduce the role of cooperative organisations in agriculture. This is a major step in the wrong direction, and it will challenge rural agriculture first. Cooperative organisations ensure equal prices for producers in the north and south and enable agriculture to deliver safe and fresh food throughout the year. I am also pleased that the Committee believes that there must be work to find a solution to the use and management of the state's property in Northern and Troms. Finally, I am very pleased that an overall committee says that Arctic agriculture needs to be raised. Norway is alone in the world to have some extent of Arctic agriculture, and the focus on this regional advantage needs to be continued and reinforced. I have great expectations that we will see an increased investment in Arctic agriculture in the treatment of agricultural production.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4818	It's interesting to listen to the debate tonight. I want to congratulate the case spokesman and the multiple speakers on a very good job. I note that the Council of State is also very satisfied with the management of an agricultural message where he has hardly won a single say. The main step taken by the Stortinget after today’s debate is to zero out the government’s proposal that overarching the objective of agriculture is cost-effectiveness. Norwegian farmers operate cost-effectively. It is not possible to survive as a gardener today without a good and efficient operation on the individual farm, but from that to making cost-effectiveness an overarching goal would effectively take the life of the important food production we have in the counties such as Sogn and Fjordane, Hordaland and several districts. Here, geography and topography do not allow the small and medium-sized applications to be transformed into large-scale applications. Therefore, I am pleased that there will now be a bet on just the small and medium-sized ones. It's high time. Many of these practices require investment in buildings and soils. Today's decision must therefore be followed up with the means of renewing and developing these uses, which have come to the rear. The agricultural settlement, where the demand comes tomorrow, will show whether the Minister of Agriculture will follow up the decision of the Storting from the evening, or whether he will do as his colleague Helgesen, and will do so without listening to what the Stortinget decides. I hope that the Minister of Agriculture has learned from the lesson Helgesen got today, so that he follows up what is now decided. The centre party is a local food production driver based on Norwegian resources. We are lucky who can safely eat both wet-cooked eggs free of salmonella and salads without heat treatment, without being afraid of magesjau. The centre party is also a driver for the export of Norwegian agricultural competence to developing countries. As a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, I am concerned that poor countries too should have a commitment to food production as an important way out of poverty. Norwegian agriculture has a high level of competence. The most important element in Norwegian agriculture is food land and human beings. It is important to preserve and develop both resources with a policy that makes it possible to produce food in both the inland and coastal valleys. In my country, Sogn and Fjordane, agriculture is important. The food industry is important — and they must have raw materials. I hope that the decisions this evening will enable us to further develop the great agriculture we have, both in Sogn and the Fjordane and in the rest of the country, and the food industry, which lives on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4833	I am also pleased that there will be new negotiations on what the Council of State has proposed. For us in Westfold too, agriculture is important and crucial. It is important for the green sector. It is important for too much of agricultural production. Not least, the whole value chain, the food industry, is one of the most important industries in Westfold. We depend on a good agricultural policy and not least on strong import protection. I'm glad, among other things. on behalf of the Sande municipality, which is one of the priority areas of organic production, that the wording in this respect is significantly better in the setting than in the message. Many people have been concerned that there is a lot of good going on in agriculture. That's right. The reason for that is what Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum went through. Not least, it is good that the previous Minister of Agriculture was stopped by Stortinget when she presented her first farm settlement. I remember saying at the time that the representative Line Henriette Hemdal had a great responsibility for the government being put under administration, and the central parties have helped to keep administration in order. Then the Council of State has presented a new message. This is not how it was well received. There were troubles all over the country, because people understand agricultural policy. It seemed that when Norwegian agriculture went well, the Minister of Agriculture decided to say: ‘I have to do something about this. And then he made a new message. Fortunately, many of the proposals have been stopped. We're getting a better channelling policy. We have slowed the development of milk quotas, and market mechanisms are much better – and not least the replacement schemes. Let me use it as an example of how incredibly important many elements are for us to be able, in sum, to maintain a relatively small scale of agriculture in Norway, which gives us good animal welfare, good animal health and good food safety. That's what it's all about when we choose instruments. The liberalist ideas of the Council of State did not tolerate the meeting with the Stortinget. Rarely have I heard someone boasting so much and have got so little. In fact, it seems that adding the list is so high that you can go straight underneath without tearing. [[Laughter]] But the Minister of Agriculture will be right that too much of this period has been about slowing down the Minister of Agriculture's proposals. One of the problems in agriculture at the moment is that there is a necessary defence fight. In the next period, I hope we get to a government that allows us to discuss offensive development of agriculture, and not just defend ourselves against the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4846	In the setting we're dealing with today, one looks forward, and it's not a story, either above today's government, the one that was before today, or the one that was before it again. Governments are quite right when he says that the income formula in the setting is not the formulation of the Centre Party, because we do not want to reduce the income gap; we want to close the income gap. But I would like to remind the Council of State of the Rules of Procedure of Section 25, which says that the meeting of the Committee is not allowed to refer from, and that he should be careful to assign the various parties meanings, who has meant what. Turning to some specific issues, first the information office: The left has announced that they will be in charge of their comments. The representative Kjeseth did well for it. We are in a situation where none of the comments have multiples, but what is certain is that there are no multiples to drop down the information office. So I would strongly recommend the Council of State to take a process on this, evaluate the different options and sort them out properly before he concludes. On that basis, I see no reason to insist on proposal No. 12 from the Center Party. Furthermore, it is worth noting, in the message and in the setting, that there is a positive attitude to the changes in the market balance that Nortura and the meat industry have made. I expect that the Council of State will follow in a good way. When it comes to the point in the setting of the transition from the target price to the volume model for pigs, I think that an agricultural minister who thinks about the best for agriculture will wait to make that change to meet our WTO commitments. Furthermore, in the case of the buying-in system for goat's milk, the Committee has significantly restricted it, which should only be in order to prevent the entry of goat's milk into animal feed. This means that what it looks like now is little basis for using government money on a purchase scheme, that it can be managed through market balancing. I want to ask the council to read the setting, about what has been the intention of Stortinget. I mean 22 places in the country where it's important to produce food, and we need food from it. I was injured not to mention Trysil, and I have had strong reactions to it, so I also want to say that we need food from Trysil.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4865	Norway has to take responsibility for producing as much as possible of the food we need ourselves. It's about our own food security, but it's also about the fact that in a world with a strong population growth and an increasing number of mouths to saturation, we have to take responsibility for contributing as much as possible to food production. In a country like ours, with less arable land per person than what you have in India, with one billion people, we have to take advantage of the possibilities we have. In this way, efficiency can not be the sole objective of agriculture, although efficiency must always be an objective. Then we also need an objective of active, living and diverse agriculture across the country. I am pleased that the Stortinget in this setting has gathered in the centre of Norwegian agricultural policy. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to contribute to the broad majority of the Storting and to continue predictability of the actors in the agricultural industry. I am pleased that today the Stortinge said no to the government's proposal to make several fundamental changes to agricultural policy. Those representatives of the government parties who may be a little disappointed today and who have repeated many times that agriculture has never gone better than it is now, under this government, may be comforted by the continuation of the predictability and the necessary framework conditions that have led to this success. Today's setting has ambitious agricultural targets. We're going to produce more food than today, and we're going to produce food and feed that it's ready to produce in our country. In many areas, there is a potential for increased value creation in the future. It applies within cattle, food grain, fruit and vegetables, and the Christian People's Party believes that more should be invested in these productions. We should both produce more fruit and vegetables and eat more fruit and vegetables. Five a day is a good delivery gel, and if we facilitate and stimulate increased production and increased consumption of fruit and vegetables, society can save billions of dollars over the health budget. But we know that the risk within these productions is high. It is therefore important to focus on research and development in this sector which can contribute to increased competitiveness, growth and sustainable future production of fruit and vegetables. Among fruit producers there is a broad consensus that common stocks and packing plants are essential for quality, product development and increased sales volume. Therefore, targeted arrangements for these stocks and packing centres and the strengthening of these schemes are important for, inter alia, the following: to be able to make adjustments when market imbalances arise. I am pleased that there is an overall committee that also expresses this in the vote, and I am not least pleased with the initiatives that are now being taken in the field of recruitment to the fruit and vegetables sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4876	I agree with Andersen, the representative, who said that there is a need for offensive development of Norwegian agriculture. We need a development that is ecologically, economically and socially sustainable. It's overly mature for a new course. The debate must no longer be a discussion of the speed of a wrong course. The task of the centre party is to promote increased production of natural – and I stress naturally – safe food on Norwegian land, not on foreign land, in the form of cereals and soya. We must systematically promote better food quality. It also provides a green import protection, as I mentioned in my first post. And consumers are on track. It's one of the most joyous things I've experienced in recent years. This combination of land and quality also provides a cultural landscape that will be appreciated by more people, and it provides the basis for a multi-syslery in Norwegian towns where green tourism and agriculture go hand in hand. Hemsedal is one example. Travel leaders in Hemsedal are calling for such an agricultural policy in the future, and it is not just the Central Party tour operators in Hemsedal who are calling for it. And the Right Front says that there are possibilities here. Then we have to combine roots and wings. We have to combine anchoring and innovation by constantly drifting towards something better. This debate has had little attention to the degree of maritime supply. One has had little attention to the fact that the government proposed that the degree of maritime supply, corrected for imports of feed, should not be a result target for increased food production based on Norwegian resources. So the government is trying to make the Norwegian people believe that whether we import a lot or little grain into our animals, we have the same degree of maritime supply. It's strong. Obviously, any practice knows that the more feed you import into the animals, the less Norwegian becomes the degree of maritime supply. The government is trying to say the opposite. It's incredibly strong. It's fake, it's cowardly, it's wrong. The degree of maritime supply depends on what is produced in Norwegian areas. But what's interesting is that here the government gets support from the Left Party, which in its time had a prime minister and an agricultural minister named Gunnar Knudsen. The position of the Left Party today was completely removed from Gunnar Knudsen, the big fighter in the Left Party. It is sad that the Left has gone so far away from its basic ideas and now supports the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4887	The size may suggest that I will gradually introduce the measures to which the size of the annual agricultural policy refers today. I have plans to rent them for years to come. The size may also suggest that a person himself will be measured on a part of the electoral campaign as a guide from Stortinget’s pulpit. When describing a reality, for example: of developments in Western agriculture, which is not entirely right, it prevents what the Stortinge says from targeting, simply recruiting more people for agriculture. The income development of the West Bank in Sogn and Fjordane was around 12 p.m. in 2015, in Møre and Romesdal around 10 p.m. – twice as much as the income development of others in the same state in the same year. Then one can't act so that one actually prevents people from investing when there's a basis for it. There are investments in average use today. Two thirds of the capital invested in Norwegian milk production is currently being used for those who have an average of 10-30 cows. Two thirds of the investment funds used for dairy farming are used there. The income development from 2014 to 2017 is for other groups 7.1 pst. NOK 35700, for agriculture 18.1 pst. or 55 100 kroner. In addition, if an adjustment to the market imbalance is made, agriculture, with a market balance, could increase income by additional NOK 8 000 during that period. It shows the basic challenges that all the parties in government know about. If the means of income are good enough for production to grow quickly enough, it is the recipe that incomes fail again, simply because the biggest enemy of the Norwegian farmer is overproduction for which he himself is responsible. Therefore, the measures to which the Storting joins today must be introduced gradually, so that an individual does not build up imbalances in the individual market, for which the farmer will have to pay the bill in the next round. The size may feel confident that this will be phased in gradually for the next five years during this government, but they must also realize that if one is to do so without building up new imbalances, one must do so gradually. I'm assuming that one can have for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4900	It's getting late in the evening, but I have to say it's been said very well here in the debate. But I'm not sure if it's right for the Council of State just to boast that there's a record investment in agriculture in Norway. It could have been good, but not necessarily. It may be that the Council of State should have checked if there were any warning lights blinking. Large investments require large revenues. If the income is disproportionate to the investment, we're going to have a indebted industry. Remember, small things can also be good, especially if we take into account the need for employment, innovation and creativity – or innovation, as it is called – and attractiveness, which the industry should have in order to ensure new recruitment. I don't know about other types of investors who accept as low a return on invested equity or as low a remuneration for their own hours, working hours, in agriculture, as we have. The Norwegian farmer endures with very poor compensation for his capital. The agricultural policy of the government leads to what I can reasonably compare with social dumping. We need a variety of agriculture to meet the natural conditions we have in Norway. We cannot become the biggest and best and compete with European or American agriculture. The country and the farmer need a new agricultural policy, which in many areas is almost the opposite of what today's Council of State is at the forefront.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4909	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4914	Governments systematically referenced income figures from the budget title for agriculture, policy-adjusted figures, non-accounting figures, figures showing income trends, not income levels. I think we should get away from this number usage and over to what the representative from the Workers' Party said, that is to base the operational reviews' figures. The operational reviews show income figures, income for work done on rational use. The size would have been based on the actual figures, because that's what the farmers are up against, and that's what they're familiar with. Then a few discussions could be about how one will develop the income for the youth in the future. That's what the youth needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4919	It's a topic in this debate that I had expected a stronger response from the government parties, and it's the value struggle that's actually going on, not only in agriculture, but also in society, the fight against the liberalist flows that we see flushed inwards the message that's been delivered to the Stortinget, to which the Stortinget has massively said no. We don't hear the defense of those ideas. We have international, good examples of – and one should not go far to see it – that the kind of recipe for creating more food production – yes, for that matter more employment – is not successful. When the representative, Bjørnstad, and also the representative, Gundersen and others from the Right and Advance Party, have almost described it as saying no to the kind of measures in which we tear up market regulation, we cut in support, and where one really removes much of the public and community instruments, which either stand still, as the representative, as Gundersen said, or brake, as the representative, Bjørnstad said, I will therefore, at least on behalf of the Workers' Party, take a strong distance from it. It's not braking. I fully agree with the representative Karin Andersen when she defends welfare and leisure arrangements and early retirement schemes and actually describes it quite well. If it's as the representative of Bjørnstad says, that we'd rather remove the early retirement scheme and instead start recruitment measures, then the value of the instruments is not seen to be wider than that. The early retirement scheme may not go around thinking about so many young people, but it's part of the package to go into this industry. But it's even more concrete than that. The fact that someone is in a state of affairs is an opportunity for the young people to take a position on the farm. And if we're going to have such a -- excuse me, President -- narrow-sighted approach to the tools that are actually a big puzzle, that have helped us to have good food production in this country and have opportunities for growth, you might lose sight of it. That's why it's so important that we get a shift in agricultural policy that helps to explain that you don't stand still when you want a more active income target, you don't stand still when you want less re-disposal of food, you don't stand still when you want to have a strategy related to organic farming, you don't stand still when you want farmers to have access to the grocery stores and get a new law on good trading practices. Nor do you stand still when you tell trading partners around the whole country that we – unilaterally – do not renounce the import protection we have built up. It's not to stand still. It's looking ahead and building on a production that we can live well for many, many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4930	When the clock has passed midnight and a drawing is done to its third post, it is very common to stress that a debate should not be extended. But I still want to thank the Committee for the work done on the message, and the Council of State and not least all of the people involved in the process. One of the nice things about working with agricultural policy is that one can travel anywhere in the country and meet up with community houses or sports halls of people who want to discuss agricultural policy. There is also some of the strength of agriculture, which means that their voice is heard in the social debate. I will end by wanting to wish Norwegian Bondelag, Norwegian Bonde and Small Farmers teams and the Council of State the success of the agricultural negotiations that will begin tomorrow. One has received a very good guide from Stortinget now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4938	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4954	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4970	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e4986	In connection with Stortingen's treatment of Innst. 246 L for 2016-2017 was wrongly referred to in the second paragraph of Section 9-11 of Section I. Consequently, the legislative decision cannot be accepted, and on behalf of the Labour and Social Committee I would like to make the following proposals: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: Under I, the following provision shall be presumed to be amended as follows: Paragraphs 9-11, second paragraph, are replaced by the following: The benefit is graduated for each hour the child is supervised by others, measured against a normal week of work of 37.5 hours, see also Section 9-12, seventh paragraph. Performance can be scaled down to 20 percent. If the child is supervised by more than 80 %, no allowance is available.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5002	The representative Bente Stein Mathisen has taken up the proposal she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5021	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5032	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. Case No. So 1 is already going to be equal to 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5042	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. It's from the presidential members Marit Nybakk and Svein Roald Hansen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law on the downgrading of documents related to the treatment of Stortingen on Document 1, Appendix No. 1 The report of the National Audit Office on the revision of police and defence object security shall be replaced by the following: [[2016-2017]] § 1 For the purposes of the Stortingen treatment of Document 1, Appendix No. 1 The National Audit Office’s report on the audit of police and defence object security is upgraded as follows: [[2016-2017]] a) Riksrevisions summary of Document 1, Appendix No. 1 Report of the National Audit Office on the audit of police and defence object security adopted at the meeting of the National Audit Office on 12 January 2017. [[2016-2017]] (b) Letter from the Ministry of Defence to the National Audit Office on 6 January 2017. § 2 The law shall enter into force immediately.’ An alternative is to vote between this proposal by the members of the Presidency, Marit Nybakk, and Svein Roald Hansen, and the presidency's position. The presidency had set up the Storting to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5074	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote for the vote. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5092	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. It is from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose permanent protection against petroleum activity in the sea areas outside the Lofoten, the Vesteral and Senja, including the whole of Northland VI, Northland VII and Troms II.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5123	A total of 15 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Green Party proposal No 2, by Ola Elvestuen on behalf of the Left, Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment the proposals No 3-6, by Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens the proposals No 7 and 9–15, from Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 9–15, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to review and propose changes to the instruments to the petroleum industry and the participation of the State in the Norwegian base, so as to maximise the return on existing fields and minimise the exposure of the State to new investments and field resolution costs. An assessment shall be made, inter alia, as to whether the State as the main owner of Statoil and the sole owner of the EEAS must sell into new fields with high long-term investment costs.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking to base its Norwegian petroleum policy on the following: Norway shall strategically convert and phase out Norwegian petroleum production in an economically and environmentally sound manner during the period 2018-2040 in order to reduce Norway’s economic risk and contribute to the global climate objectives of the Paris Agreement.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to investigate, plan and propose a gradual slowdown in oil activity towards 2040 with food and labour policy instruments to facilitate the creation of about 10,000 new jobs each year in other sectors to replace the jobs in the petroleum sector.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to use the ownership power of Statoil to withdraw the company from fossil energy production abroad and to set in motion a transition to a renewable society, with the aim of strategic transformation towards becoming a global leader in renewable energy.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an assessment of the establishment of a conversion fund with mechanisms that allow the use of money from a separate excise duty on field settlement, as well as State resources from the oil fund to cover the removal costs and to stimulate re-use/re-use, spin-off, retraining of the unemployed from the industry and new sustainable economic growth as a result of conversion, phase-out and field resolution.’; Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting that the Norwegian oil and gas activities be phased over a 20-year period and that no new exploration and extraction concessions be granted after 2017.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to develop aid and foreign policy initiatives towards other coal and petroleum resource countries in order to promote policy decisions and alliances in order not to facilitate the re-production of coal, oil and gas leading to greenhouse gas emissions throughout the value chain from production to use.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess a deductible charge on all oil and gas activities going to its own field resolution fund in order to reduce the State’s field resolution costs.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5191	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–6, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to eliminate all sector-specific tax advantages to which the petroleum industry is subject. In particular, it is essential to remove the light-refusion system as soon as possible.’» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make and present a concrete assessment with: a. an analysis of the costs, risks, responsibilities and funding of field resolution on a Norwegian base with the aim of establishing a policy that minimises government costs, maximises re-use, post-use and recycling of installations and exploits the enormous field resolution tasks to create jobs and innovation in the years to come. b. a financial risk assessment of the country’s field exposure to be eliminated or at risk of never becoming profitable, in particular in the light of the petroleum tax and special scheme in which the country covers 78 per cent of all development costs and field resolution costs through the tax system, as well as liabilities through holdings in the oil fields.’;» [[2016-2017]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an analysis of at least two scenarios for Norwegian oil production by the latest in the revised 2017 national budget, as updated alternatives to the current Norwegian petroleum policy premises provided in Meld. St. 28 [[2010-2011]] This box can be used to specify the units of the van der Waals constant'a '. One scenario shall be based on the continuation of current oil exploration and tax policies, but that the long-term oil price is half of what is used in Statoil’s analyses. b. Another scenario shall assume that the oil business is to be phased out gradually over a 20-year period. Winding-up takes place through the cessation of all exploration activities and the absence of any new extraction permits. The gradual degression will take place when the day’s field in operation is phased out.’» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting that no more exploration and extraction permits will be granted on a Norwegian base as from 2018 in order to avoid the emergence of ever-increasing new fields, giving a clear strategic signal to other countries and the world’s energy companies.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5237	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Left, Socialist Left and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess whether it is possible to amend the rules on deductible costs for oil companies, so that it becomes less tax-effective for companies to cost initial investment in fossil oil and gas and more favourably to invest in renewable energy projects.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5252	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a new petroleum notification on Norwegian oil and gas policy in the light of the climate challenge and the new market situation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5283	The President proposes that the statement on important EU and EEA matters by the Minister for Coordination of EEA Matters and Relations with the EU be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5293	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, the proposals No 3-9, from Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No 10 and 11, from Ketil Kjenseth on behalf of Left the proposals No 12-14, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Prop. 12 S [[2017-2021]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a new proposal for a binding and comprehensive escalation plan aimed at reducing the prevalence of violence in close relations and at strengthening the custody of children exposed to violence and abuse, following the model of the mental health escalation plan. The plan shall ensure a multidisciplinary scope of actions, good coordination and a long-term commitment to increased funding and earmarked resources.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5332	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of its own low-threshold relief measures to ensure emergency or temporary housing and the necessary protection for women at risk of violence with severe mental illness and or drug dependence in all municipalities.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5349	There is a vote on proposal No. Ten from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that children’s homes have the necessary resources to ensure that waiting times are kept.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5366	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4, 5 and 7-9 from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all the national children’s wards have at least one doctor specialising in children exposed to violence [[social pediatrics]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in national guidelines for the State Children’s Homes to give children’s homes responsibility for coordinating the follow-up and treatment of children who commit sexual assault.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the need to identify how many children receive treatment and follow-up after violence and abuse, what treatment is given and who gives it’. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government of the State Children’s House is asked to ensure that both children and young people who are victims of violence and abuse and offenders who are under criminal sanctions are interrogated and followed up.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the provision by municipalities of crisis centres to particularly vulnerable persons who cannot be in ordinary crisis centres.’ The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5406	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 6, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of a staffing standard for the school health service. Means shall be earmarked during the planning period until the manning norm has been complied with.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a concrete plan for the escalation of children’s homes, which ensures that waiting times are kept and that children’s homes are dimensioned to interrogate all children up to the age of 18.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5431	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13 and 14 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal to extend the possibility of imposing a reverse violence alarm to, among other things, cases in the event of a breach of a restraining order.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to extend the possibility of imposing a visit ban beyond one year and to investigate the possibility of imposing a visit ban with restrictions on movement in a larger geographical area.’ The Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5466	There is a vote on proposal No. 11 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to assess whether the legal certainty of children who die suddenly and unexpectedly has been adequately safeguarded, or whether further measures should be considered, and to explore the possibility of introducing mandatory site of death investigation in case of sudden and unexpected death. Decisions 630, 8 June 2015.’ The Right Party, the Progressive Party, the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5656	The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5672	A total of 22 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4–6, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 7-11, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 12, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 13-22, from Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5696	Proposal No. 12 has been withdrawn in the course of the debate and will therefore not be addressed to voting. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 13 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to maintain and step up the percentage of organic farming.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5713	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15, 17-19, 21 and 22, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to organise the possibility for farmers wishing to convert into organic farming to gradually do so, with the possibility that parts of the operation are conventional in the course of their journey.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make investment aid for operational buildings conditional on local feed production and grazing access and to give priority to applications from small and medium-sized applications.’;» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to increase the use of Norwegian grass and pasture resources by increasing the prices of cereals and power feed, reducing the price write-down premium for cereals and strengthening the area and grazing subsidies in future agricultural settlements.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The size calls on the government to stimulate the increased use of pastures and pastures by making the grazing subsidies progressive so that the payment is more directly linked to the length of grazing.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to make Arctic agriculture and food a brand, both for the export of niche products and as part of the development of North Norway as a tourist destination.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government asks it to maintain its current milk quota regions.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5758	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14, 16 and 20, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government requests the removal of the inspection fee for organic farming.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the financing of agricultural climate investment, including climate advice, farm-level data capture and good models for the calculation of climate emissions.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Norwegian agriculture is world-leading in animal welfare and to facilitate the marketing of high animal welfare as a quality in Norwegian food.’ The Left and the Left have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5787	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7-11, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to promote a case that guarantees the rights of the people of Northland and Troms to state property similar to those of the rest of the country’s counties.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an operational disability grant with a clear environmental profile in order to preserve the most heavily fuelled food land throughout the country.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to step up efforts to combat agricultural run-off, especially in vulnerable areas with a high level of agriculture, in order to achieve better status in the water catchment areas by 2021.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a plan for a significantly increased level of zero emission solutions, such as electrification, for agricultural power’.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for revised new cultivation regulations to be consulted before the summer of 2017 in order to follow up the recent budget decisions of the Stortingen to ban the breeding of ants.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5827	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–6, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a national strategy for increased independent Norwegian food production, where food produced from imported feed is not included as part of the level of self-sufficiency.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to reintroduce a clear structural profile of the area and livestock subsidies, with an upper ceiling, so as to facilitate food production throughout the country.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the concession law to be tightened so that company ownership on farm does not confer a concession.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5857	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for the law on good trade practices.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess whether incentives can be put in place through the grant schemes in order to better ensure good animal welfare.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5881	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to establish the food storage facility for food grain.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e5998	Case No. 9 concerns the handling of a third legislative action and concerns the adoption of Decision 74 at the meeting of the European Parliament on 18 April 2017. That is why we are voting on the draft law with the adopted statement from the second reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e6010	The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved by the third reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e6018	Case No. 10 is the second time the law is handled and applies to the law decision 75. During the debate, the representative Bente Stein Mathisen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour and Social Committee. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: Under I, the following provision shall be presumed to be amended as follows: Paragraphs 9-11, second paragraph, are replaced by the following: The benefit is graduated for each hour the child is supervised by others, measured against a normal week of work of 37.5 hours, see also Section 9-12, seventh paragraph. Performance can be scaled down to 20 percent. If the child is supervised by more than 80 %, no allowance is available.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e6041	Therefore, the comment on Law Decision 75 is supported. The legislative decision, with the opinion adopted, will be set up until the third reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e6051	Case No. 11 is the second time the law is handled and applies to the law. 76. There are no proposals for comments in the case. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved for the second time in the legal proceedings and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e6171	The President proposes that paragraph 1 of Document 8:77 S for 2016-2017 be sent to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy and paragraph 2 be dealt with in accordance with point (e) of the second paragraph of Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure. The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e6178	Point 2 of the proposal for a decision in Document 8:77 S for 2016-2017 states: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the main helicopter base is maintained at Bardufoss, with its operational and technical management, training, training, maintenance, logistics and administration.’; The President's recommendation not to send this proposal for management to the Committee is not justified and therefore difficult to accept. In the setting of the defence long-term plan, the main base of the helicopter is not mentioned in any decision. How, then, can one say that the decision to keep the main base on Bardufoss is contrary to the decision in the long-term plan? The 339-square drone is a pure quadron. The main task of the 339 Quadron is tactical transportation support for the Army and support for special operations. The main helicopter base on Bardufoss and 139 Luftving is an organisational superstructure for all quadrons in Norway as well as those bases that don't have a natural superstructure locally – that is, not the main helicopter base and the 339 squadron. We want to encourage the presidency to do something about how one defines "head base for helicopter" and how one thinks that a main base has to contain a 339 quadrant. This is unknown to me, and it's unknown to defensemen and soldiers in Norway. If last year the bulk of the population actually decided to lay down the main base for helicopters on Bardufoss, it should be explicitly stated. Nevertheless, there is no other way to interpret the president's recommendation than that last year's Stortinget decided to lay down the main base for helicopters on Bardufoss without any decision being taken. On this basis, I would like to request that Document 8:77 S for 2016-2017 be transmitted to the Foreign and Defence Committee in its entirety, and that the Committee be able to discuss and take decisions at both points of decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e6196	Then it opens for a round of explanations of vote, if anyone wants to take the floor on the matter. The representative Svein Roald Hansen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e6203	The Presidency's assessment is that the reality of the decision taken in examining the long-term defence plan was to move the main base to Rygge. Then this becomes a rematch that Storting's Rules of Procedure do not open.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e6208	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e6213	SV is consistent with the Central Party assessment here. An attempt to process the defence master long-term plan was not made on the main base function. We also find this a little bit special and we want to reject it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e6218	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e6223	On the left, I would also like to say that we support the Navarset assessment. The question of the main base was not part of the consideration of the long-term plan, and we believe that this whole proposal should be forwarded to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. So I would recommend the Members of the Left to vote in favour of the Navarsete proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e6228	The representative, Mr Jørgen Bekkevold, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e6234	With the same reason that Mr. Liv Signe Navarsete gave, I would also recommend that the Christian People's Party Group vote for the whole matter to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e6239	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e6244	The Green Party shares the view of the representative of Navarset that no such decision was taken, and we support the transmission to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e6249	Several have not asked for the word. The representative, Mr Navarsete, then proposed that both paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 of the draft representative should be sent to committee, and the president would now take the proposals up to voting time. An alternative is to vote between the President's proposal and the proposal of the representative, Liv Signe Navarsete. The Labour Party, the Right and the Progressive Party have announced that they will vote in favour of the President's proposal. The Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposals of the Liv Signe Navarsete.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-25.ana.ud152e6284	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? I don't think so. - The meeting's been cancelled.
