ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e47	The representatives of Ingarill Olsen, Per Olaf Lundteg, Eirik Sivertsen, Willfred Nordlund and Marianne Marthinsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representative of Liv Signe Navarsete has been informed that the permit granted has been withdrawn. This notification shall be taken into account. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Akershus County: Solveig Schytz For Hordaland County: Hans Inge Myrvold For Oslo: Per Espen Stoknes From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget dated 24 November 2017: ‘Administrative Board of the Ministry of Knowledge With effect from 27 November 2017, the State Council of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen shall be reinstated into the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Knowledge.’; The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The former member of the government, Henrik Asheim, has once again taken the seat as a representative. The request for leave of the representative Mudasar Kapur has been received from the Røjre Storingsgruppe in the days 29-30. to take part in a study tour of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to Strasbourg. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative, Astrid Nøklebye Heiberg, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e119	The representative, Mr Grøvan, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e124	On behalf of the representatives of Olaug V. Bollestad, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and myself, I am delighted to propose safer and safer road traffic through the use of alcolocks.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e129	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e134	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Mona Lill Fagerås, Solfrid Lerbreck and myself in the fight against sexual harassment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e139	The representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e144	On behalf of Ingvild Kjerkol, Tuva Moflag, Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen, Tore Hagebakken and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on a new overdose strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e150	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e168	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e177	The adoption of a law on testing self-driving vehicles is important. The size of the deposit adopts the law at the right time and with the right restrictions, in order not to challenge road safety and to ensure the protection of privacy. The Committee has made a recommendation which is promoted by an overall committee. As rapporteur, I would like to thank the other members of the Committee for their cooperation. The legislative proposal is a desire to promote the development and dissemination of new technologies in the transport sector. Self-driving vehicles exist worldwide, and many countries have passed laws and regulations for further testing and deployment. Norway has committed itself by means of the Amsterdam Declaration, which sets common objectives and works for a European framework for automatic vehicles and to facilitate their testing. Today, testing outside closed test are prevented mainly by restrictions in the Road Traffic Act. In addition, rules in the professional transport legislation and the data protection legislation prevent testing. The definition of self-driving vehicles is important, and perhaps also the use of words. I have already used the word self-driving and automatic, and many refer to this technological innovation as driverless and autonomous. Someone might say it's thoughtless, but that's exactly what this law helps to avoid. For the purposes of this proposal, the definition of self-driving vehicle is covered by a vehicle in which a driver may entrust the driving to the technical system. It can also be a vehicle designed to drive without a driver, i.e. very forward-looking. The provisions of the Act would like to point out that it is necessary to authorise the testing of self-propelled vehicles. It is important that safety is ensured by the authorised person. These obligations to retain and disclose all stored information accidentally. The legislative proposal has been on a wide-ranging consultation round, and it is noted that there is generally broad support among the hearing bodies for a legislative proposal on the organisation of self-driving vehicle testing. The Ministry has adapted the bill after the answers have been received. This has clearly made the legislative proposal better suited to the challenges that may arise. But I would like to point out that these are laws that regulate an experiment. The test shall take into account safety while the test is research and development work. Self-driving vehicles can lead to improved road safety, efficient traffic management, better mobility and major environmental improvements. Then it is important to start testing in the traffic in which they are going to operate. I believe that self-driving vehicles will quickly complement today's transport services in a very positive way, but we need to be aware that we can face major challenges. Today's passenger and goods transport, which is currently dependent on professional drivers, may be challenged. These conditions are expected to be slightly affected by a law on testing, but become more important in longer-term work on permanent regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e194	The working party is technology optimists, and we believe it is now time to get a law on testing self-driving vehicles. The law, which is agreed in the committee, believes that we take into account the challenges we are facing at a stage when the transition to such vehicles is likely to take place at a faster pace than we imagine. Such is the case with technology leaps on such a scale. It is important that such a transition takes into account that technology is not fully developed and that negative events are prevented as best as possible. We believe that this law does, but we believe that the supervisory authority must follow closely the tests that are being carried out. This technology leap must not evolve in the wrong direction. The law also takes into account the protection of privacy, which is very important in a world where information flows freely. We are concerned that the individual must be able to feel secure that information is not being diverted or used for wrong purposes. The Labour Party believes that the Stortinget should vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e203	Let me first thank both the rapporteur and the committee for a quick and good discussion of this bill. There are many people who are ready with new and exciting concepts that they want to test out, and I'm glad that we have an overall committee that supports the bill. It's the first time we've passed such a law in Norway to facilitate self-driving vehicles. As you can see, it's a historic day. At the same time, we must respect the fact that this is new work, and that initially it is a law that facilitates the testing of different solutions and technologies for self-driving vehicles. Better and more accessible sensor technologies, the ability to handle large amounts of data and the ability to communicate with the environment and other vehicles are crucial for the emergence of autonomous solutions. I am convinced that the self-driving vehicle will be a significant part of our everyday life in a few years. The solutions we are about to explore will provide the basis for the next generation of technological solutions and contribute to increased road safety, better mobility and more environmentally friendly solutions. New technology offers new opportunities, while giving us new challenges. We have been used to the fact that the vehicle has one driver. Today, the traditional driving responsibility is an important premise in the Road Traffic Act, which limits both the use and testing of self-driving vehicles. Rules relating to professional transport and personal data may also limit the possibility of testing. Instead of introducing a comprehensive adaptation of existing legislation, this legislative proposal allows derogations from those laws, just to be tested in practice before major legislative changes are made. This is a good approach, which will provide us with valuable information for the further work. I think the interface between car and public transport will change. With autonomous vehicles, collective societies will be able to offer more tailored solutions, where, for example: is picked up at home by a self-driving minibus that takes us – and perhaps a few more – to the nearest collective hub or directly to where we are going. Transport solutions are increasingly adapted to individual needs. I myself was on a trip in Kongsberg earlier in November and got a briefing on a project with a self-driving minibus. They have been able to test the technology in ordinary traffic for a test route between one of the central economic areas and the collective hub of the city, both during summer and winter. As soon as the law is in place, I expect the application to be sent, and it will be exciting to follow both this and other interesting projects. There is good reason to have high expectations of what self-driving vehicles can mean for the development of public transport. Similarly, this will eventually also have a major impact on private cars. We may at some point no longer be allowed to drive in our own car, whether we like it or not. Computer technology is just getting better than us. Given that beyond 90 pst. of all road accidents caused by human error, it will be exciting to see what this will mean for road safety. Maybe this technology can help us take another step closer to the zero vision of injured and killed in traffic. At the same time, it is important to identify the challenges with new technologies. There will be a lot of information about people's travel patterns that can also be used for other purposes. The protection of personal data is therefore an important consideration and theme in the testing of autonomous solutions. It's always interesting to see how new technology is received. For many, self-driving cars and vehicles will be somewhat daunting, while for others it is exciting and interesting. In any case, autonomy in some form is part of future technology and part of our new everyday life. The government includes this bill to get the technology tested in real surroundings. It will provide us with useful experience that is important for the development of good and customer-oriented solutions, while providing us with valuable information in the adaptation of the future law. I am excited about the continuation and hope there will be many good applications in the new year, when the law comes into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e224	This is a historic day. I too would like to thank the rapporteur – and the committee – for their good cooperation. It has been talking for many years about the visions of the future, when the cars can drive themselves. There has been talk of all the possibilities that lie far ahead, but there has never been any law to test this with a self-driving vehicle. We know that technology exists. Many car manufacturers have shown up their vehicles. They exist to some extent today. We have also seen that it will now be launched, also in Europe, future models of unguided cars. It will be imminent. Then it's good that we have a forward-looking government, which facilitates new technology. For the Progress Party, it is important to facilitate modern and timely technology. That doesn't mean you shouldn't be able to drive yourself, but that means you have other opportunities – for those who want to. There is no doubt that this technology is exciting and interesting for those who cannot drive the usual public transport, but may be involved in interconnection – there may be small buses, there may be normal cars, you can do something else. This can also create new markets for Norwegian companies. We know that in Norway there are major technology environments that are forward-looking and far ahead, in world-class. That might be the most interesting, not just the traffic winding-up. It is true, as the Committee also says, that it can also lead to improved road safety. We know that in most cases there are driving errors and human failures that lead to traffic accidents. This is exciting, precisely because it provides a good supplement, it can increase road safety, and it can create new industries. I'm happy to continue, when we're going to see that this is being implemented and getting stuck. We hope to succeed in the test, and we'll follow this with excitement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e239	All transport-interested people with an interest in new technology have brought with them the self-driving craft of all kinds. They are prototypes – or second or third generation versions – of cars, boats, aircraft without a driver. Numerous trade unions all over the world have been researching this for years. That car manufacturers like Ford may not be that strange. When the real big players, who we don't even connect with transport, like Google, are with and have thrown themselves on the wave, we realize that it's serious. They have actually been developing in this field since 2008. That actors like Uber are also on the go, telling us that the commercial interests are pushing, and Uber has his angle on this. It's a while until we're completely at the finished vehicle in full operation in any city, but progress is incredibly fast. One now divides the degree of automation, or autonomy, into five degrees, where five are completely driverless and tested. Today there are hardly any brands in the trade that are more than level two or three. Ford says they have a commercial product of level five in 2021, and that's not much longer. Norway, then? Most of us know Yara and Kongsberg Group's autonomous container ship, ‘Yara Birkeland’, to be installed in full operation between Porsgrund, Brevik and Larvik in 2021. New projects are on the bet. On autonomous boats, we're actually world leaders. The traffic image and the competitive image of autonomous cars are a bit more fragile, to put it that way. Many are in the process, as I said. But what about autonomous cars in Norway? So unless everyone has brought it along, Oslo is on a rather exclusive list of 13 cities in Europe where the testing of self-driving vehicles has been authorised. It says reading on a list published and published by Bloomberg Philanthropies and Aspen Institute. It was also mentioned from the representative Place here that the Kongsberg Group is in the starting pit. For the technology city of Kongsberg, they have no plans. They are also central to many other fields, in navigation, geopositioning, etc. At the top of it all, autonomous vehicles shall be tested in 2018 under winter conditions at E8 in North Norway, reports the Ministry of Transport. It is obvious that the situation is more than mature in order to get laws and regulations in place to test these vehicles. It is equally obvious that there is a good deal of legal, practical and economic aspects that must then be assessed. This is exactly what has now been done, and SV is behind the content of the bill. We were reassured by relatively few negative recordings during the consultation round and by the fact that the proposal has been amended according to the most cumbersome recordings in the hearing. In order to obtain better and more experience, it is appropriate, in the first instance, to regulate the testing of self-driving vehicles in a specially adapted law with the corresponding regulations. Then you obviously have to come back to new laws and regulations when the practical and commercial everyday life of this stands at the door. In both this case and the case of interconnection, which we will have later today, I will challenge the Council of State to say a little about how he will ensure that the new technology and the new laws can ensure that one of the most important purposes, to bring down traffic and emissions, will actually be achieved – and not again lead to more traffic, if more road space becomes available. At least that is a concern we have. We need to take care of that development, that it is going in the right direction, a direction that is socio-economically useful and not least environmentally correct. SV wants testing and testing of these autonomous vehicles, but all automatic technologies are not automatically positive and straightforward. These are fundamental questions we have to consider along the way. This means that we must not have ‘autonomous politicians’, we must have politicians who are following this development along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e258	This case illustrates very well what opportunities we are facing in the time to come. Words such as the modernisation and renewal of the transport sector have rarely been more striking. Now we're seeing the beginning -- or I'll say we're in the middle of it -- of an incredibly exciting development. In order to address the challenges, inter alia: The transport system needs to be modernised in relation to road safety, capacity, environment and climate. We are going to meet exciting times, where technological development will contribute to a positive innovation. Modernisation is not primarily driven by politicians, but by technological driving forces and people's desire for new solutions. Autonomous vehicles and ITS will be important factors in the modernisation processes. Systems for the application of information and communication technologies in the road sector can significantly affect behaviour and improve transport solutions. New technological solutions will improve accessibility and, above all, improve road safety. In particular, technology will contribute to lower emissions. Of course, we have to assume that even in the future people will travel a lot, whether by car or collectively. The car will also be an important means of transport in the future, but the technology works for us to reduce emissions. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to contribute to political meeting development offensively and with an optimistic view of what technology can provide of opportunities. State and public authorities shall be a driving force in modernising the transport system through technological innovation and early use of new solutions. Among other things, there is a need to: provide for adaptation, for the updating of legislation and new relevant legislation. It is therefore positive that the government is now making arrangements for testing self-driving vehicles. The legislative proposal facilitates the development and dissemination of new technologies in the transport sector. Of course, we are only at the very beginning of the development of autonomous vehicles, but legal regulation is necessary. Self-driving vehicles exist worldwide, and many countries have already passed laws and regulations for further testing and deployment. Tests are now also being carried out in Norway. That's good. This supports the Christian People's Party. I record that both the security aspect and privacy concerns are addressed in the bill, as we consider it. It's important. In the time to come, these will probably be absolutely central issues. The Christian People's Party supports the proposition and will contribute to facilitating the use of new technologies in the future in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e275	Mobility is something we want in society. Because we're going so many places. We're going to work, school, leisure, vacation and cultural activities. Solving this in the simplest and best possible way in terms of time, cost and environment is one of the important tasks we have as a society. Reducing travel time and increasing flexibility and predictability are important. In a diverse society, we also need diverse solutions. Contributing to the increased use of technology both to provide information to travellers and drivers and also to ensuring that vehicles use the technology to become more self-held is an important part of the job. That's why we're presenting the bill and we're glad that the Storting is now adopting it, which makes it even more possible to test out technology. I believe it is a good piece of legislation that the Stortinget now adopts. It gives us room for action to follow developments and ensure that we can test out the vehicles on Norwegian roads and extend the mandate as the technology becomes more advanced and proven. That's good, both because it can contribute to an even better future for the country's travellers and the world's travellers, and because we see that it can create even more jobs through technology development and by expanding the transport supply to which society has access. That's why I think it's important that, when Norway does this job, we look primarily at how we can improve the provision of collective services. When we've been to the United States and met different actors there, they often realize that people have to own their own self-driving cars and use them in private businesses, like today, where the car is supposed to be able to meet all the family's transport needs. In that case, it will lead to a lot of empty driving of cars. It doesn't help create less traffic or less queues in cities. That's why we're now creating a law where the public sector in Norway embraces the laws. If we can make sure that Router, Columbus, Tide and the other collective societies look at how they can initially complement today's collective offerings by using e.g. small self-driving buses mean that several of us will be able to change behaviour and get a better travel day – not a worse one. This means that we get access to better transport at a lower price than if we had to buy our own car with the same technology. I think that's exciting. I also believe that this will solve many of the environmental challenges – not only, but I have not yet heard of a single autonomous vehicle that is planned to go on either petrol or diesel. They contribute greatly to the transition to battery and electricity. If we get that development as part of the industry track, that from 2020, maybe 2025, we have battery cars that cover the transport needs that people have – let's say it happens from 2025 – then the predictions show that we will have fulfilled the climate agreement in Paris with regard to transport, with more than the obligations, without new charges or restrictions on vehicles. I'm very happy. In the last year, I've visited Google, Chrysler, GM, Ford, Daimler, BMV and many others in both the United States and Europe to see what's going on. There is no doubt that there is a lifting, more than a celebration, by car manufacturers and technology suppliers dedicating engineers and capital to actually do something about it. This is not the first time you have discussed the possibilities for self-driving cars. GM had an advertising film from the '60s that showed a car like that. The problem was that there was no infrastructure around that would support it. Therefore, it is also good that Norway is well advanced in digital infrastructure, that the ecosystem invests in record volumes, and that fibre coverage and mobile coverage are among the best in the world. It will support the ability to have autonomous vehicles, but it also means that we need to make a political contribution to progress. I think there are people at work who are afraid that the bus driver's profession will disappear. I don't think we're gonna get there. There will still be a difference between what type of vehicle people take, whether the vehicle is going very fast or slow, and whether people need personal assistance or not. What we see is that technology can create jobs that we can't quite see today. Now battery aircraft are being developed, and Norway has told us to buy one of the first, and get it delivered as early as next year. Avinor is developing autonomous incubators together with a manufacturer at Gjøvik and in Kongsberg. We are developing remote-controlled towers in order to extend the opening time at airports in the districts, and autonomous ships are being developed. There's already been a test area where there are ship's drones in Trondheimsfjorden. It shows the potential, and we want to help make it happen in the vehicle sector too, by testing it out and creating an environment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e294	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e299	Today we have a bill for testing self-driving vehicles. The bill seems to have taken account of the most important eventualities, but this is new work and needs to be followed closely. There are different concepts associated with this: ‘self-propelled’, ‘autonomous’ or ‘driverless’. Perhaps the last in particular may be frightening to many people. The Labour Party is a technology optimist and meets this development with great interest, but also with a clear view that the precondition is that this should make the offer to people safer and better. It is important to pay great attention to public information on what driverless vehicles mean in traffic view, in order to increase the level of knowledge while trying to gain valuable experience. For many, it is frightening to think that the car or bus will drive itself, perhaps completely independent of the driver. There are already many automatic functions in modern cars, such as cruise control and distance measurement to the nearest car, to mention something. Accidental figures are going to go down if you eliminate human error. It's possible, but it's a long way to go. Man is used to man himself controlling the machine and having control, and we know that the future involves change. We are technology optimists, but we must also have an informed population in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e315	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e331	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e340	The reason for the proposal to amend the legislation in the Transport Code is to facilitate increased interconnection – we go from driverless to co-operation, and in a while the most likely is driverless interconnection – and today’s legislation limits this. We want to reduce the number of cars on the road, reduce emissions and improve accessibility. At the same time, it is essential that the law does not allow competition with the taxi industry without permission. The amendment proposed by a concerted committee in Section 20 of the Professional Transport Act therefore limits itself to passenger cars and to a corresponding transport requirement. The feedback in the hearing replies on remuneration makes it most appropriate for us to base the state regulation and the tax-free rate, with the addition of any toll and ferry costs. It will make it easier to control and simplify the calculation of those who collide. Nevertheless, we in the minority believe that the police consultation response provides a basis for assessing how to make more effective provision for the detection of illegal driving. The proposal from the minority is therefore that the Stortinget asks the government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with an assessment of how to more effectively detect illegal driving. In addition, the issue is to change the age limit for permission to drive taxis from 70 to 75 years. Here the Ministry will come back with a case to limit the scope of the management system, so that rights are freed. Therefore, the Committee considers that it can endorse that proposal. I'm addressing proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e355	The representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e360	The Ministry of Transport proposes to amend the Act of 21 June 2002 on the Professional Transport of Motor Vehicles and Ships, the Professional Transport Act. Two changes are now being proposed. The upper age limit for keeping taxi licences in the second paragraph of Section 9 of the Transport Act is changed from 70 to 75 years. This is a change in line with what we also do in other age limits. The average life expectancy of people has increased, and the state of health is also significantly better. The second amendment concerns exemptions from interconnection permit requirements. This is a change that has a clear environmental background. Interconnection is desirable in terms of the number of cars entering and leaving cities and larger centres and is also a contribution to reducing pollution from private cars. The possibility of unlicensed carpooling is limited in accordance with current legislation. It is therefore appropriate to amend the legislation. The Ministry's proposal includes a change to Section 20 of the Act, which means that no permission is needed when the person who has a passenger car registered up to nine persons has with him people who have a corresponding transport need as a self, and the remuneration does not exceed the proportionate part of the transport costs of the passengers. This matter also concerns the borderline against the taxi industry, as the previous speaker pointed out. The minority refers to this in their comments. I would therefore like to remind you that at the examination of Document 8:115 S for 2016-2017, where the Central Party made proposals for a roll-call report on the taxi industry, the then majority stated – and I quote: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Right, the Progressive Party and the Left, consider it important to facilitate a good transport offer throughout the country and that taxi transport is an important part of this. The majority will note that there are several ongoing processes in the area of taxi regulation, including ESA’s reasoned opinion on the current regulation, the Divisional Economics Committee’s suspension NOU 2017:4, and work on proposals to change the law on taxi regulation. The majority believe that these processes are sufficient to assess all the considerations of future taxi regulation and therefore that a separate wholesale notification is not necessary.» Although the changes in Section 20 are timely, several of the hearing bodies point out that these are rules that are difficult to control without having to invest large resources. That is a point of view I share, but it cannot overshadow the benefits of softening today's regulations. When the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV make this essentially, the positive aspects of the law change are overshadowed. The three batches endorse a proposal to ask the government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with an assessment of how to detect illegal driving more effectively. The right-wing party believes that this case should not in itself imply that a person should reduce resources in this respect beyond what is already being used to detect existing piracy in the taxi industry and other activities. These are activities with a far greater scale and severity than the interconnection represents. On the contrary, it is desirable to welcome a combination of open arms – in the service of the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e374	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the members of the Committee for their excellent consideration of the matter. It applies mainly to two changes to the Professional Transport Act: an adjustment to the Law to stimulate increased interconnection and raising the upper age limit for taxis. As regards the adjustment of the legislation to stimulate increased interconnection, the proposal is very positive. It facilitates increased interconnection, which will deliver clear environmental benefits and reduce road loads. If you are to succeed in facilitating increased interconnection and realise the social benefits that interconnection can bring, it is important to provide motivation for the driver. If you are going to create motivation for the driver to bring strangers in the car on a trip he would have done anyway, he must have an incentive to offer him a ride together. It is a little difficult to see that if you cover only the actual costs, you will create sufficient motivation and incentive. Providing access to sharing of costs would give the driver much more incentives to offer interconnection. There has been a good deal of consultation, and I have to agree with Abelia that if you want to achieve the potential benefits of interconnection, regulatory changes should both support and motivate behavioural change, and that is not enough if the driver is only covered by actual costs. If the country’s rates of mileage compensation are taken into account, which the government has set up, in addition to to tolls and ferry costs, the distribution between the number of persons in the car can provide much greater incentives and motivation to offer co-operation. So this is a positive case that will contribute to increased environmentally friendly driving and interconnection. In the case of permits, the age limit for both drivers and licensees was 70 years until 2009. In 2009, the age limit for driving licences increased from 70 to 75 years. However, the age limit for perpetrators remained at 70 years. It's obvious that you lose the right to do business when you're 70 years old, but you can continue as a worker until you're 75 years old. That is why I am pleased that the Storting will today increase the age limit for copyright holders as well. It gives older people greater freedom of choice to stay longer in work and do business if they want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e385	I would first like to thank the President-in-Office for his good work. It is good to record that there is a great deal, cross-political, in this matter. It is important that we now have a change in the professional transport law that regulates the increasing use of car sharing and co-operation, which is very positive for increased road traffic and which brings good environmental benefits. This is also a forerunner of the previous case, of autonomous vehicles, where in future there will be billing by just such means of transport. The Central Party supports the proposal to use the State’s ODR rates as the maximum fee for the interconnection and that it is considered that there is no requirement for a relationship between the driver and the passenger, but that they must have a matching transport requirement. The central party also supports the proposal for change when it comes to adapting the legislation to developments in society, where it is designed to allow older people who want it to stay longer in work, by changing § 9 second paragraph from today's age limit of 70 to 75 in order to have a taxi pass. The centre party also believes that the amendment of the law in Section 20, to allow more car interaction, is positive, as one interprets the rules for such running. The centre party still believes that an own deposit message had provided a broader and better knowledge base for the regulation of transport business for remuneration, which we suggested in the previous period. To be defined as a split economy, the consideration of the carrier must cover only the car-related costs and not the service of the driver. This means that it is the car that is left over that can be shared between several people, and not the driver's time use. If the driver accepts services or wages, the transport must be defined as a passenger service for remuneration, which then requires permission. This is an important distinction, and the Central Party is pleased that the Storting is now gathering about such a definition. The central party is also aware that when a new law or regulation is introduced, one must be able to enforce these rules, otherwise this will be ineffective. This was expressed by the Directorate of Police in the hearing, and one was asking how to verify that the merger was complying with the law. The center party believes that the government of the proposition is not doing well enough for how this should be handled. Here the government must ensure that the police have the means to detect illegal transport. We believe that the government must return to Stortinget with feedback on how one sees that the promise can be effectively enforced. For this reason, together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, the Center Party wanted to present the proposal that has now been put forward, that we should return to the Stortinget, an assessment by the government of how a more effective solution can be found to detect illegal running.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e404	We have over 3 million cars in this country. I sat with the ballroom yesterday and found out that there must be about 18 000 decks of parking spaces they need. When the cars are in use, such as approx. 1 hour a day on average, they create huge problems in the rushtida towards the cities. Most of these cars go on fossil fuel, because it's only about 100,000 that are electrical, although it's a growing number. When the huge park of fossil-powered cars is moving, they also create significant pollution, as we know too well. The size has long established that all traffic growth in our largest cities must be achieved through collective investment, cycling and walking. There is no other option. One simply cannot build itself out of the traffic problem in the big cities by constantly building wider roads, more fields and in several planes. One place goes the frontier, and in the largest cities it's reached. If an alien with the human brain had been sitting and looking at the line towards Oslo in the morning, one and one creature behind a wheel in a dodging of one to two tons of steel, precious metals and plastic – that sneaks forward towards a goal where they are going to hit even more people when they arrive – I think this being had been left as a big question mark. It seems very illogical. Why aren't more of these individuals running together? Aren't they talking? Maybe they don't communicate at all, think of the being, or maybe they can't cooperate at all. Well, we humans have excuses. We come from different places, we say, and we're going to different places – but not always very different places. SV welcomes this proposal on access to legal interconnection. Well then, we've read the hearing opinions and the objections, and some of them are serious, among other things. on the possibilities of abuse, difficulties in controlling legislation, etc. Some people are afraid of a ‘little Uber’ and that it may become a competitor to privileges holders and professional drivers. Such criticisms and considerations are SV to the extent sensitive to. However, we do not think that all the objections that have been raised can outweigh the great benefits this can bring in terms of road-relief and, above all, the potential for reduced emissions of both greenhouse gases and health-threatening concentrations of NOx and particulate matter. In addition, it may also be that the need for your own car is reduced in some cases. Then resource use also goes down, and in that part of the world where we live, resource use has to decline. The proposal seems to have become a good compromise between those who wanted less, and those who wanted more freedom of co-operation. It is, in our opinion, a clear improvement in the old legal text, where only people who knew each other could be involved in the co-operation, that is. family, friends and neighbors. Of course, the possibility of so-called spontaneous interconnection invites various actors, smart heads and creative souls, who invent apps and hunt for loopholes in the law. That's what man is. Of course, we must have this in mind both in terms of competition against professionals and in terms of tax fraud. However, with the changes that the ministry also made to the proposal after the hearings, SV believes that we have ensured most of the possibilities for abuse and control problems. That's why we're behind the setting. But to be quite safe, we are involved in the minority proposal to ask the government to come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way with an assessment of how a more effective person can make sure to detect illegal driving. So, of course, I recommend the proposal that the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the SV are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e428	The fact that several people are driving together in the same car when you are going the same way is good to make the best use of existing road capacity, you get fewer queues, there are fewer cars taking up space in the city centre, and not least we get lower greenhouse gas emissions. Facilitating interconnection is in every way a win-win case, for both the environment and people. I am therefore pleased that we now have a legislative change that regulates interconnection in a more appropriate way than the law does today. I am also pleased that the new legislation lays down clear rules and limits on compensation for the transport in case of interconnection. To set a clear limit on the amount of the consideration, which makes it clear that it differs from, for example: a black taxi market will make it easier to handle for individuals and for the State and will facilitate the control of interconnection providers via different platforms. It is uncertain how the use of interconnection will develop in the future and how transport and passenger transport systems will develop. Self-driving vehicle in car pools or in subscription schemes and other part solutions may change the way we use the car radically in the next few years. Therefore, we need to be prepared to change this legislation more frequently in the future to ensure that it is relevant and contributes to achieving the objectives of both good yieldability and lower greenhouse gas emissions. Major technological changes in the transport market can also bring about major changes in travel patterns, and we need to ensure that legislation is appropriate at all times, in order to ensure good solutions in both urban and rural areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e441	With regard to the amendment to Section 20 of the Professional Transport Act, it may immediately be unnecessary to regulate this, but it is good that the Ministry has done a job with this now, and that a person updates the law and removes the restriction that has been there related to interconnection. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposal. This case concerns some issues that are not really just about interconnection, but relate to the taxi market and how we regulate the new opportunities offered by the technology, because it is clear that it is necessary to look at the competitive conditions in the industry. We have to do that, also considering the ESA problem. The Christian People's Party welcomes new offers, and we see new platforms opening up a development where new actors can offer good solutions to travellers. At the same time, we must ensure that new offers do not exist in a legal room. Technology is developing rapidly, and new opportunities give us some challenges that we couldn't imagine just a few years ago. We have to meet that offensively. We welcome new platforms, but then we must have regulations that ensure good offers throughout the country, not least in the districts, where the taxi industry is very important to many. There has been a big message about the taxi industry, and it is quite right – as the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV write in the setting – that the Christian People's Party has also been open to a shopping message about taxis. We have pointed out that this could be an opportunity to discuss and clarify the necessary framework conditions that could provide predictability and stability for the taxi industry. But when the Center Party in our promotion proposal for a big message, we were concerned that if the government would go further along that track, there would be an opportunity to discuss some key issues. But there is reason to remember that we did not vote in favour of the proposal of the Central Party in ours. I believe that the government must have the necessary freedom to be able to present matters of this nature to the Storting in the way that suits itself best, and in the way that is most effective in clarifying these issues. The second case in the proposal concerns raising the age limit for taxi licences. Here I agree with the Committee and the Ministry that this is about adapting legislation to developments in society. This is about making it easier for older people who want to do it to work longer. It is a sensible proposal and, like a joint committee, the Christian People's Party supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e454	The Government has made two proposals to amend the law. One is about raising the upper age limit for taxis from 70 to 75 years, thus adapting to a development in society that allows older people who want to do so to be able to do more work. I register that so far there has not been any special discussion about it, and I am happy about it. With regard to the possibility of interconnection, there is a positive approach. It is important that we try to exploit the vehicle fleet that exists in a more efficient way. Technology makes it easier for people to figure out when to go in the same direction. Before that, it would happen that a randomly known people who were going to the same workplace and so on, but technology and search engines now make it much easier to connect people without necessarily knowing each other or having a relationship. It's good if we can make good use of it, but it's not good if it's abused. We fully agree on that. This shall not be a means of operating as a taxi and having it as a source of income without having to have permission and so on. This is true when people are going for a walk, and when others are going in the same direction, in whole or in part. When I was young, we often shared the fuel money when we traveled from Bryne to Stavanger to do different things. It's actually the same principle it's about now. I think it is better that we facilitate it through a law, than that we – in fear that someone abuses it – leave it to be regulated. The challenge of the law being abused or not being followed is also where we have a strict law. It's strictly regulated who can drive the taxi today, but yet there are people who stretch the rope. It is strictly regulated what kind of vehicle you can drive freight with, but nevertheless there are people who stretch the knit. That doesn't mean that a lar is regulating it. It doesn't mean that you always have to change the law, but it means a few times that you just have to control it better, make sure that people have a place where they can report it, where they know that things are being followed up, or that police, road authorities or others have roadside checks. During today's government, we have increased the control activities of heavy-duty vehicles, for example. We've more than quadrupled it. We've also given better tools to those who control, and that means that the chance of getting caught is greater. If one gets caught, the country has also improved to charge fines, fees, etc. But it's not perfect. Therefore, it is important that we ensure that both police and road authorities follow up the control activities here, but I cannot guarantee that we are able to stop everyone. But there we have a common responsibility, by taking care that we ourselves are not led to abuse this system by using people to let it be a cheap taxi, rather by ourselves looking at it as an easy opportunity to make a little extra money. This is meant as an interconnection project and only that – not as a sneaking-in of neither one solution nor the other in the case of taxis. That's why it's important that we say which rates should be used for this, and that people feel that the authorities are encouraging interconnection, because that's what we think is positive. If two or three persons going the same way can do so in one vehicle instead of in three, that's good. I think maybe the Norwegian lightning system suggests that the scope can be limited for some of us. Getting into a car with an unknown person isn't necessarily the easiest thing to do, for horror and horror: what in all days is one going to talk about? That's why it's probably been that interconnection is a good idea, but it's something that will gradually increase, and not something that will change the world overnight just because you get a law. But anyway, that the authorities are facilitating this, I think is an important step in the positive direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e470	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e475	Until recently, I can recommend talking about the weather, maybe, or the wolf. Both parts will create some involvement in the car. Today, we are adopting two laws that can provide a better environment, more rational use of the road surface. But then there is also the big question: Will this result in even more vehicles on the roads, create more passenger car traffic? These include: My concern. Does the Council have any ideas or thoughts about how to ensure that the benefits for the environment are not eaten up by more traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e482	I think it is positive if we manage to increase the mobility of people. Many of us have the desire to travel. Many people would like to have a larger and wider impact field as a residential and work area. I don't think we should try to limit it as much as possible, but I agree that we should try to ensure that people's mobility is strengthened, while at the same time reducing queues and pollution. I am very pleased that in Oslo, across different city councils, more people travel collectively and fewer people drive private cars. It happens under today's city council, but it certainly happened also under the previous city council, so there's been a consciousness around it. Then we also have to make sure that the vehicles that any vehicle uses have the lowest possible emissions or any zero emissions. But getting more people to go together means that you have fewer cars on the roads, and not more, and this is an important contribution in the right direction. But this is going to happen at the same time as the government at least helps to increase the development of both rail and collective solutions in and around the largest cities and in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e489	That means that the Council of State and I agree with the objective. The main objective is to reduce traffic and to reduce environmental emissions. That is the main background, the main purpose of this bill. I also get the feeling that the Council of State has the same thoughts as me – that it has to be kept an eye on whether traffic is increasing as a result of these changes in law, or whether traffic is actually going down.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e494	I find it difficult to see that these two legislative changes will lead to increased traffic – everything else similar. The fact that several people are in the same car means that one parks some of the cars that would otherwise drive. At the same time, there are increasing numbers of people both in Norway and in the world. That they also want to travel around, should not come as a surprise. Therefore, it is important that we also have a commitment to collective solutions and the like, so that one can provide an offer where people feel that they are able to meet their transport needs and mobility needs effectively, and not be restricted by the housing and work areas, where they can go to school, or what the economy permits. At the same time, the bombings that are now being carried out around some cities — with allegedly good intentions — mean that some of them with the worst economy will not be able to afford to participate in social activities. I don't think it's a good balance, although someone can enjoy that there are a couple of cars getting fewer on the roads. I would rather have invested more in collective solutions rather than keeping people at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e499	There are a lot of things you can talk about in the car when you run with new people – where both wolves and maybe bomb shillings are the theme. At least what I think is that this is part of the idea that we get more in one and the same running gear compared to today. It's, as I said earlier here, a precursor to car sharing with a driverless vehicle. But there's something I feel that the council didn't respond that much, and that's whether the police themselves thought about how to enforce the new legislation. I would like to hear more about what the Council of State has about what can be done to ensure that they are able to enforce the legislation we put in here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e508	This is going to be a control procedure for the police, in line with the control of other rules that the state has. Then a time will have intensive checks where a check on cars that drive interconnection actually has people going the same way, and whether there is money involved in this. But as I also said, in all situations, you can have a very clear law, and most of us will follow it, while some will abuse it. Assessing how a best response to the need for control here, I believe we should leave it to the police. We as the government, and the Storting, when they adopt laws, give a strong signal of how they think society should be regulated. We have authorities to follow this up in practice, and I have no reason to believe that the police will not be able to do this. But this, which in all other contexts, will always be difficult to detect, but it's certainly today as well, and then it's not regulated in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e517	I did not hear that the Council of State in its introduction mentioned the relevant regulatory changes mentioned in the proposition. The working party sees the context of increasing the age limit to the same age as the driving licence, although some skepticism emerged from the trade movement related to the possibilities of working with younger workers. However, we know that some central banks and even individuals are administrators of in some cases too many rights – and this is also the case for drivers who want their own rights. I expect that the department will also take this into account in the treatment of the notified changes to the professional transport regulations § 51. The question is, does the Council of State have such intentions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e522	First of all, the theme was mentioned very briefly, but initially, so I was in it. This topic that is addressed is one of the things we have in the back of our mind when we work with the code. Now there's a job where we're going to answer ESA in terms of taxi policy in general, so here it's going to be a very broad approach from the department, and the Stortinget will also be appropriately involved in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e527	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e543	On a proposal from the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e552	This proposal concerns the financing of projects and actions on the national and county road network in the municipalities of Lindås, Meland, Radøy, Fedje, Austrheim, Masfjorden and Modalen north of Hordaland and is referred to as the Nordhordland package. Initially, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. Prop. 164 S for 2016-2017 has been discussed in the Transport and Communications Committee and there is a unanimous vote by the Committee to accede to the Government’s proposal. There is also a minority comment from the Progress Party and the Right that lower pass-by roofs can be established if there is local political agreement on this. The Northern Hord region probably has 35,000 inhabitants, and the population is expected to increase to 45,000 by 2030. Existing road networks are not adapted to expected growth in the region. The promotion of commercial transport is poor on many routes. In addition, there is a need to strengthen and improve the accessibility and safety of walking and cycling. The North Hordland package includes projects and actions on the E39 and the county road network. It has been added to the extension of the E39 through the Knarvik center. In order to increase road safety, provision has also been made for the construction of pedestrian and cyclist roads. In addition, efforts have been made to strengthen public transport and to facilitate more environmentally friendly transport solutions, including: to damp traffic growth towards central parts of Bergen. The Nordhordland package has been dealt with and has been endorsed by the municipalities concerned and the districts of Hordaland in several rounds. The financing plan includes State resources, county funds and tolls. The overall economic framework for the Nordhordlands package is about 1.5 billion. SEK with the 2017 price level. The last estimate of costs gives a total cost of over 1.8 billion. 2017 krones. This means that the package is initially not fully funded and that the portfolio of projects must therefore be adapted to the financial framework. This is a project with large local support, based on local initiative. Due, inter alia, to: major social investment is expected to increase population growth in the region, which requires a better infrastructure. This project will better facilitate road safety, jobs, growth, commuting and housing in a larger housing and labour market region in Northern Hordland.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e569	This is an important and joyful case for improving both the national and county road network in the municipalities of Nordhordland. The project will improve the promotion of business and, in particular, road safety. Today, there is a road network where you have registered 24 deaths and 114 serious injuries in the period 2000–2012. We are therefore pleased that the municipalities and county council together have taken action and merged on this road project, this package, which has a total cost of 1.8 billion. kr. We wish them good luck with the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e576	Now we're approaching Christmas, and it's time for celebrations, gifts and packages. Packages are something most of us associate with something positive, which we want, which we look forward to getting. But it's unfortunately not all packages that are equally positive or equally pleasant to get, and it's not all packages that are really packages. This so-called North Hordland package is such a package. It is such a package that the few people want, and at least not such a package that we in the Progress Party want. Today, the North Hordland region has 35 000 inhabitants, and the population is expected to increase to about 35 000. 45000 by 2030. On the other hand, the existing road network in the region is not adapted to this growth, which is the background to the actions to be implemented by the Nordhordland package. So it makes sense that the road network is being repaired. But what the Progress Party is responding to is that it is the drivers of the E39 who are paying for improvements to the county roads in North Hordland. It is quite wrong that drivers who do not need to repair county and local roads should be forced to pay for something they do not use, something they do not drive on, and something they do not need. It is the responsibility of state politicians to take care of their roads, and consequently it is justified to point out that local and state politicians should take greater responsibility here and not push the bill over to the drivers. In this context, it is also justified to recall that, with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left, the Right Party-Fremskritsparte government has more than tripled the appropriations for the state roads after we came into government. The right-wing Party government is committed to local democracy and listens to local politicians. The Nordhordlands package has been dealt with and adopted locally – against the votes of the Progress Party – in the relevant municipalities and in Hordaland, in many rounds. Consequently, the Nordhordland package is locally anchored and something the respective municipalities and Hordaland counties themselves want, and then the Right-Fremskrit party government does not override the local democracy. The Progress Party notes that it is scheduled to start toll collection in 2018 and that it will be a down payment period of 12 years. The overall financial framework is a total of 1.5 billion. kr. The State's share is 60 million. kr and the county council share of 280 million. kr, while the rest is to be financed by the toll drivers. The Progress Party is concerned about this significant share of toll and has always wanted to avoid placing this burden on the project on the drivers, and the Progress Party has voted against in all local bodies. However, toll financing has been adopted, and we are dealing with the majority, and we must therefore accept that this is a package that the politicians in North Hordland want. It is, however, gratifying that an overall committee considers that the rates of excise duty may be lower, based on market interest rates or on the fixing of interest rates. This is something that we in the Progress Party are very concerned about, and we encourage the state and local politicians in Hordaland to take that opportunity and look at it. Experience has shown that lower market interest rates or the fixing of interest rates could result in a lower interest rate than the calculation technical rate, which in turn may lead to lower rates of excise duty. Together with the Right, the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party further wished to place a ceiling for all vehicles with a valid piece and agreement at 40 passages per month, instead of 50, if there is local agreement to do so. We tried to accept that in order to open it up, but unfortunately it did not become a majority. We think that's very bad, because it could have made it cheaper for, among other things. families with children, who depend on driving a car to and from leisure activities in addition to the regular journey back and forth to work each day.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e595	The North Hordland package is an important transport measure to strengthen business opportunities and busses in the North Hordland region. This part of Hordaland has had a strong crowd, which will continue in time. This, combined with a varied business life, makes it decisive to put in place better careers, as well as better conditions for public transport and road safety for pedestrians and sick people. The Nordhordland package is based on good processes by local politicians, road directors and county councils, who have worked together and only on a common and holistic plan. This is a strength for the implementation of the project. It would be right to thank all those involved and to close them with the further work. But the project also involves a strong increase in toll collection over several years. This project alone requests an account of over 1 billion. Tolls. Let me be allowed to post a previous deposit representative from the Progress Party, Arne Sortevik, back to the handling of a similar case in 2009, the Bømlo package: ‘There is no reason to thank for a new case relating to additional transport taxes — because of the failure of a government that will not use the well-filled state fund.’ The fact that the government still does not find any better solutions is regrettable. Nor did Stortingen adopt policies to reduce this extra transport tax seem to reach the Council of State and the Ministry. In only 3 out of 122 toll facilities that were to be reduced, there have been reduction measures in the last year. 19 of them, on the other hand, have had an increase. The centre party has on a number of occasions pointed to the large maintenance and investment gap in the county councils and has provided good alternatives in the face of the economic challenges. The centre party, through its alternative budget, has increased the means of investment for national roads and not least made a significant increase in the framework of the county councils, as part of making smaller commitments to the transport tax in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e611	The left believes that this is a local initiative, it is local, and it is, in fact, a strong local desire to have this whole package implemented. That is why we warmly welcome this. So I just want to say a little bit about Tor André Johnsen's assessment that the majority in the committee didn't agree to reduce to 40, so it would be free if one had over 40 passages a month. This is when I lose track – considering the local initiative and the local funding. I fully agree that toll rates should be reduced by better financing. But if you're going to reduce from 50 to 40, that means that others have to pay, because there's a package here that has to be paid, and then it suddenly gets higher rates for those who don't get these 40-50 passages. So I don't fully understand the logic of the Progress Party. We know that the Progress Party is strongly opposed to user financing of this at all. They say here in Stortinget that they accept the local majority, and it is positive that the government is presenting the matter, but then we have to follow the local initiatives and the local decisions fully.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e620	Today we are discussing the North Hordlands package, which is primarily a county road package. It is a desire of the majority in Hordaland to make these improvements, and the government has, in line with it, presented this matter to the Stortinget. It is good and important to repair many of the roads and bike paths that this is about. It is about creating better accessibility, increased road safety and simply bringing the region closer together. So it's very good, and I'm glad we're taking those steps further. This has been a long process. There have been many conceptual investigations, quality assurances and the like. It is important to remember that there is a need for strong cost control in the project. It's not a package where all the projects in the package have funding. In order to reduce costs, several projects will be implemented. If the cost increase is large, fewer projects will be implemented. That means here it's an important work to do further locally. There are tolls in this package. I think it is a little strange that the Central Party criticises the government for a decision that the state politicians in Hordaland have made. Then a baker cooks for the blacksmith. There is probably some lack of historical knowledge about the package when the government gets the fuck out of control of the county council in terms of responsibility for their own county roads. If the Central Party believes that this should be national roads, they should have at least failed to transfer the highways to the states in 2010, as the Center Party did when they directed the Ministry of Transport. I think one here has to see himself a little bit in the mirror. I fully agree, as a Progress Party politician, that we should have the least possible tolls and state funding, but here we follow the orders that the Storting has made a number of times, where tolls are part of the funding. But the government has actually suggested cutting tolls in a number of projects. What is a little eye-catching is that the red-green majority is opposed to cutting tolls – which they are now criticising the government for their existence. If you're against tolls, it's just to vote against tolls, it's a free one, but the fact that the Senter party criticizes tolls – and then to support it – doesn't harmonize. It's pure populism. And I remember that in the state budget for 2018 there is an allocation of more than 500 million. kr to reduce bomb tariffs in a number of projects. The majority of the parties in this room have proposed the removal of this grant, but it is still there, following the budgetary agreement, and thus the majority. Then we can hope that the Center Party will be involved and strengthen that post further, instead of being against the post office, but so criticise that the tolls are not cut anyway. The rhetoric and populism of the Center Party aside – I think most people here are happy that these roads are being repaired. Then there will still be disagreement between the parties on how best to finance this. I think Arne Sortevik's words from 2009 are still good, but that is not the majority of that thinking in the Stortinget in 2017 – no more than it was in 2009, when the Senterpartiet ruled the policy on transport. Fortunately, government appropriations for transport have increased sharply in recent years. There is now so much money for the maintenance of both national and rail roads that the maturity of the road network does not increase. In fact, it's going down sharply. A pot of money was put in place for the county municipalities in the 2014 draft budget of the Stoltenberg government before it left. That increase has been several hundred percent since then. That means that the counties have a better economy to build the road and to maintain the road now than they had before. So that things aren't perfect, none of us are in doubt about. The fall and fall on Norwegian roads and Norwegian railways are remarkably large after many decades of lack of supervision, I would say. But at the same time, we see that what's happened in the last few years has led to a total decline. This means that infrastructure is getting better year after year, not worse. I think we should be happy about that, considering what's happening. So in terms of funding: this is good for many in North Hordland. For some, this is not good. But that the infrastructure in the country overall gets better year after year, I think we're all happy about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e645	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e650	We hear the Minister of Transport say in several of these cases and also today that he and the Progress Party are against these toll-funded projects, but he only presents the issues to the Storting as there is a majority for local. Is it the case that the Ministry of Transport is reduced to a dispatch office and that the Minister of Transport is submitting the cases to the Stortinget where there is local connection to road projects financed by tolls anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e655	When it comes to following up local policy decisions, this government works like the previous government, so I don't think the representative Myrli would seem surprised at that. But that it's just a dispatch office – that's where I think the representative Myrli should think about a little and even know that the answer is no. When one looks at the road reforms, the railway reform, the loosing reform, the airfield action, etc. which has happened in recent years, there is a significant commitment and initiative from both the government and the Ministry of Transport to improve the way in which the organisation of Transport Norway is organised, and the way in which it implements the Norwegian Transport Agency. The promise that has been on the road and the railway is not automatic. It happens because it's a political initiative to want to do things. At the same time, we must also bear in mind that in a declaration of government in a majority cooperation with the Left and the Christian People's Party, it has not been a majority to implement a purely Progressive Party policy. It is possible that the Workers' Party when they were sitting and driving said that they also had full power over the Center Party and SV. I don't think it was like that, but in that case, what is reflected in the way the representative Myrli asks the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e663	Now, the idea of replying is that government councils should ask questions, and then state councils should answer – preferably what they are asked about. My question was neither railway reform nor anything else. It was about toll projects. I think I was reasonably clear on that. That was a short and concise question. So I repeat it: it concerns toll projects – toll projects – nothing else. Is it now that no matter which local toll projects are initiated by municipalities and local authorities, the Minister of Transport will present them to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e668	I'm sorry if the representative Myrli thought it was sad to get a bigger perspective in the answer than what he had in his question. But I still think it was necessary to show that the department is not just a dispatch office. We are obliged to implement the policy of Stortinget at all times. If the Stortinget signals that they don't want to use tolls, of course the Department of Transportation will follow it. But so far, the clear majority of the Storting, and among them the parties with which I work as a Progress Party politician, have wanted to implement the road projects that come from local teams. At the same time, we have said that we want to have the lowest possible toll. In that case, we have mainly gone into where the state is involved and has ownership of road projects, i.e. on national road projects and European road projects. That's where we've taken action to reduce the bomb charges. More than 40 road projects now agree to increase State subsidies in order to reduce tariffs. I find that the Workers' Party is opposed to giving money to reduce tariffs, while they are now making themselves high and dark because we have not managed to remove all tolls. Then there is a misunderstanding between your own questions and your own policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e683	The centre party has ambitions for E39 in the West and is of course pleased with projects and actions on E39 and the county road network in Northern Hordland. But this comment in the case from the Right and the Advance Party to change the pass-by roof from 50 passages to 40 passages if there is local political agreement seems pointless. It is only suitable for humbling under the turmoil that has occurred locally. We do not want large toll costs, but we respect the consensus that has been negotiated locally. The details of the tolls can be revised, but then it is the toll company, the local authorities and the Road Administration that have to make that assessment, and it is done without such comments from the government parties. The Right Party and the Advance Party have also not made any proposal to change the proposal of the Ministry of Transport, but I assume that the reason for the comment is to show that the Progress Party does not agree with its own State Council. Minister of Transport Solvik-Olsen has demanded record tolls, which the Progress Party representative Solvik-Olsen promised to remove before he became the Council of State. I wonder if the Council of State is pleased that the other parties did not go into this note and then put forward proposals that opened the door to more trouble and possible changes to the assumptions for the whole package.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e690	I think it's a little strange to get that question when the last Senterpartist representative did his best to raddle over that there was toll at all. It was almost to invite you to a rematch, or it was just to try to sprinkle salt in a wound at a point where the Progress Party has not been able to implement its primary policy, and try to give the impression that the Progress Party thinks it's all right. The progress party wants to cut tolls. One considers that the State has a significant amount of capital that one could use to invest in infrastructure. In government, we have not been given a majority in this respect, but in government, the Progress Party is involved in a strong increase in infrastructure investment and maintenance – a far greater investment than one has seen in the past, which also means that the infrastructure is now getting better year by year and not worse year by year. At the same time, I think it would have been quite real if Stortinget would give a different signal to what rate it should be, than what local politics has been. It's Storting's authority, and if the Storting wants it, it's allowed to change it. Then I would have related myself to it. But according to what I have said before, I have related that when the Storting will have cases from the county council to the Stortinget for treatment, we have delivered what we were supposed to do in line with what they have decided locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e697	The Minister has committed to an NTP where 131 billion will be required. kr during the planning period. It's record high, and I see the challenge for the minister in the time that comes if the government parties at Stortinget succeed in undermining the propositions being made. Can the Minister tell how many billions of tolls are required so far in this Right Party government's reign?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e702	As a result of previous and current decisions, more and more tolls are demanded in this country, not because the government has changed or wanted more, we have suggested less, but we have not received a majority in the Grand Duchy. If the centre party thinks that the development has been wrong, at least the centre party for the eight years they've been running should not be presenting all the toll propositions that we're now demanding tolls to pay off. It is also a little strange that when the government has presented the Stortinget with a toll reform aimed at increasing the state contributions, the Stortinget has voted it down several times, and then the majority of the Storinget comes and criticises the government that we do not, however, implement what the majority of the Storinget has opposed. I also think the Center Party at its sobering moment sees no meaning. It is quite right that tolls are also in the next national transport plan. But what is also important is that tolls per year will be lower than if the last national transport plan had been passed on to the Senterpartie. So our tolls now go down and not up, as opposed to when the Senter party crashed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e707	I think the Council of State is brave. I think he's brave when he uses the term populism, right about the Center Party, which it might in some circumstances be justified to use it over. But when the Progress Party, which is somehow the stronghold of populism, uses that expression, I must wonder, and I must say that the crocodile tears over tolls are also very strange. Does not the Council of State still believe that the polluter-pays principle applies? And when the Progress Party wants great roads – they want great roads, they are busy roads, they dream of great roads – how is it to be financed? Should we take it from school? Shall we take it from health? Take it from the state budget. Where in the world in the state budget? Does Solvik-Olsen leave the polluter-pays principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e714	I think we're moving far from the original core of the matter, but it's a little interesting when SV comes as moral knights and says who's running populism and not. At least then there should be a link between the claims promoted in the hall and the decision. What I pointed out was that when the Central Party criticises tolls that they themselves have not intended to vote against, and they represent a majority who are opposed to cutting tolls, it is a bit strange to criticize the Progress Party when we do not get a majority of the government's proposal on toll cuts. I fully agree that the polluter must pay. But the question is, how many times does one have to pay for the same pollution? One pays today a one-time fee, one pays a fuel tax, one pays a year's tax, and one pays in addition a toll. In Oslo, one in addition is required to pay a number of other charges. So one pays a lot of times for the same thing. It is not a matter of not paying – one just does not pay several times on top of another. That is why we say that car-related charges can go down, while road-related charges go up, so that there is a balance between what the polluter pays.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e723	I'll register that, for example. Free E39 shall cost 340 billion. So it's going to be a preliminary number. Everyone knows that such bets require enormous sums, when you're going under fjords and through mountains. Everyone also understands that with the ambitious plans, tolls are required. A lot of tolls are required. And if you have as ambitious road plans as in these four-field dreams of the Progress Party, it's obvious that it requires toll financing. This must also be communicated with the people by the Council of State and the Advancement Party. Does the Council of State feel that this relationship is poorly communicated?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e730	I don't see why the drivers have to pay everything and so it's when a build road, while the railway – when SV builds it – has to be fully funded by the state. Why is it that someone has to pay the entire bill themselves and well so it, while others are going to get everything for free? If you think building infrastructure is important for building the country, you have to consider this as an investment and not just a cost. I think it's a little strange that SV now stands and criticises the E39, which they themselves were for when they put in government, while SV often raises the lightning train, as they themselves shriveled when they sat in government. There must be a link between the responsibility that you yourself have shared to take as a majority government, and that one subsequently criticises when one stands free. Otherwise, one must accept that the Progress Party also has a position on tolls for which one has not received a majority, without pretending that that relationship does not exist. But we're going to build a lot of road in this country because it's good for the country. It is good that we have mobility and that we link the districts more closely. What's also great is that the left, with which we cooperate, says that bad roads are not a good solution for the environment, but unfortunately it seems that SV experiences it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e740	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e745	Back to that point: financing the Nordhordland package. I have to say, as a representative of precisely the county, that this is a happy day, not least for North Hordland, but also for the whole of the Bergens region and for our county. I think this is a matter I've heard of as long as I've been politically active. The version we now have for treatment is from 2014. It's an impressive political craft that's behind it. There are many municipalities involved, with different concerns to be taken care of, and everyone has got their share of the package. So it's a great job that's done. But those who have really been the main drivers to get this in place are the business of the region, because they see that it is absolutely necessary to get better visibility if you are to get the potential for value creation that this region has. Across the north we have both Mongstadbase and Mongstad, and the whole region is full of companies that could have the potential much better triggered – with more jobs and increased value creation – with better visibility. But also for the population: As mentioned earlier, there have been many ugly accidents in the region. The fact that we have better collective solutions and better road safety is incredibly important, because when a region is built up, it may not be the first priority, but when it becomes as compact as it is today, it is absolutely necessary for the region to be a good place to live – because there are quite a few who have moved out, and there is a dense population. Now it refers to an ÅDT of 50,000, but the biggest challenge is the relationship between North Hordland and Bergen. They're looking forward to it. There's an ADT of 90,000, on narrow roads, lots of accidents, all the time. So it's going to be the next round. But today I know that it is a happy day, both in North Hordland, in the Bergens region and in our county.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e758	A "long extension" is often used for road projects when they are finally approved here at Stortinget. These projects are also highly relevant to the North Hordland package. Although it has been both challenging and demanding to be able to only locally on a friendly solution, it is an extension to be made here. Northern Hordland is a growing region, with a population development expected to reach 45,000 inhabitants by 2030. The region has a varied business and labour market integrated with the Bergens region. There's more to it than that. the Mongstad industrial area, with more than 100 different enterprises and more than 3000 employees. The existing county road network is actually among the oldest in the country and is absolutely not adapted to the growth of the region. The development of food transport is very poor on many routes, with one lane and without provision for either walking or cycling. In fact, between 2000 and 2012, 24 deaths were recorded in this area and 114 serious road damage. There is therefore a great need to improve this road network, both in the region and towards Bergen, in view of the emergence and road safety. It is pointed out from several quarters that the state part of this package seems to be very low. In this calculation, one must also take into account that the road network in Northern Hordland consists mainly of a large county and municipality, and that only the transport corridor E39 is State owned. In this project, the payment is expected to be 1.16 billion. kr in tolls, while the state part is 60 million. kr. In addition, a look at the contribution of the state that comes as a framework transfer to the state, where the state itself benefits and prioritizes. I believe that one will find good solutions to deal with the additional costs involved in this project, but I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to encourage politicians locally to actively focus more on the standard requirements of the county. The North Hordland package has been working locally for a long time, and it is important that it is now made possible to get this project moving quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e775	Now I couldn't humiliate myself. It is in particular that the Workers' Party and the Center Party are standing and criticising the Advance Party in terms of tolls. It is also special that the Progress Party is criticised for wanting to change the pass-by roof and to facilitate the local political setting of the roof to make it cheaper for most people. It might seem that a simulation model and the application are exact science. Then I'd like to remind the Center Party and the Workers' Party of what they've done elsewhere. The ceiling has been put down, and the funding is going fine. So you have not been able to have a side-way bomb anywhere else, even though simulation models have said that you have to have it, if it doesn't get traffic rejection, and the project isn't profitable, it doesn't go up. The opposite turns out to be right. What turns out here is the truth, it's that the Workers' Party and the Centre are talking about something – and they're making the opposite true. They require lower toll rates for the drivers, but they do the opposite. In its budget, the Labour Party increases by half a billion – and refuses to have interest subsidy schemes to make it cheaper for most people. You say no here today to make it cheaper for those who live in North Hordland. You say no to the families who run at work every day – and on weekends you should not be able to drive for free. So you say no, but you look like you're doing something else. The center party also says no to make it cheaper. You go out into the national media and you say you're against tolls, but you do the opposite. When discussing tolls and urban parcels, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party – otherwise all of them – said no to the proposals of the Progress Party to look at proportionality, what is required to do, and what is being used on the road. It has to stop standing here and trying to look like something else, and maybe be a little bit more sober about what you're doing, and communicate what you want, and at the same time maybe vote afterwards. I invite the Center Party and the Workers' Party to do something that can be cheaper for most people in Northern Hordland, but you're not so concerned about it. The progress party and the right is concerned that you can do it locally, if you want, the exact same thing as with market interest rates. It was not usual for a market rate to be used to make it cheaper for the driver. The Progress Party has brought with it the majority of the Stortinget, and also a unanimous increase now, after a few years, that one can think of that idea, if there is a local political desire for it. We're now inviting the same scale to think the exact same thing about the pass-by roof, the exact same model, but today they say no. The truth has come for a day: the Center Party and the Workers' Party later as something and do something else in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e788	Then, of course, the game is going on from the Progress Party when we have toll cases for treatment, and that's probably just the taste of what's coming, because it hails in, it slides in, with toll cases from this government. Yes, so busy was the government that the case was actually filed on 25 August. This is probably just the taste of all the toll stuff that's coming. The Labour Party has nothing against that. I think I never, neither I nor anyone else in the Workers' Party, have stood and promised lower toll tariffs, as the previous speaker said. What we are responding to is the double game from the Progress Party. I think the Stortinget today should praise the local politicians in Northern Hordland and the state politicians in Hordaland who have addressed these issues, worked out a package to solve major traffic problems, found solutions for many of the road sections that are sometimes heavily accident-affected, and took the burden of getting in for partially toll-funded roads because it is the only solution to get ahead in the development. Then we experience that there is going to be a violent drive on whether there should be a roof of 50 passages or 40 passages per month. It is the diversion of the Progress Party in this matter. The progress party today is voting for all the tolls in this case and in the next case – and certainly in all the other toll proposals we are going to deal with in this period. So they're standing here making a big point about whether the roof is going to be 40 or 50 bombings per month. Why not 30? It's not a principle approach, is it 40 or 50? What we're responding to is the double game from the Progress Party, which they now have on their right. I'm quoting from the proposition where it says: ‘An hourly rule and a 50-passenger ceiling have been added per. month of all vehicles with valid tags and arrangement.’» That's what the Stortinget is invited to treat here today. It is the government's proposal for the Stortinget, the Right and the Advance Party's proposal for the Stortinget, presented in the Council of State on 25 August. What has happened between 25 August and until the committee gave its position on 21 November, I do not understand. Of course, nothing has happened, because no local initiative has been taken to change that ceiling. What has happened is that the Progress Party will ride two horses and say that they are a little bit against tolls still, but a vote for all the toll projects in the Stortinget. And today, the Progress Party is going to vote for a lot of toll collection, as they always do in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e804	The progress game is absolutely no game, and we're not running a double game. We take into account the political realities, that there is a majority for tolls – a massive majority locally, municipally and here on the Stortinget. But there must be room for – and it must be possible to try – small adjustments that will make everyday life easier for most people. With regard to the change from 50 to 40 passages, which is a call we're making, and which we might have hoped the Stortinget could join in, and local politicians could take hold of, it has to be seen as a whole and not isolated. Lower interest rates using market rates, with which the Storting is and supports, will result in lower toll rates — which, in turn, can actually lead to increased traffic, which in turn can generate increased revenues. It is the way in which my colleague, Mr Stordalen, was involved, that the models are not static. At E16 the minister was not so long ago and removed a bomb five years earlier. On the E6 northwards past the Gardermoen and upwards, the bombs will be removed early. The traffic models that have been used have not exactly been very accurate, so it is wrong to claim that there will be increased costs for someone else. It's a claim that needs to be modified. I want to say that the logic that we're challenged on here, why we say 40, is actually simple. If you commute to work every day – get income by travelling and driving by car, and a cost to get to work – you pay tolls. But during the weekends – when you're going out for leisure, football or handball games with children and family, visit aunt, go out for birthdays, etc. – we think it is unreasonable that you should also be charged with a bombing when you are on a weekend trip. It also goes beyond – as I would say the Minister for Transport has pointed out several times – those who have bad advice. It can actually go beyond the activity and the leisure offer on weekends. It's quite expensive to do leisure activities, it's expensive to have children. We see a logic in that when you have paid for 40 passages, that should be enough. That's why we want a little adjustment on the roof. That there will be such a big debate of such a small adjustment, it is not the Progress Party that has put up to now. We are accused of adding up that it is going to be a big case and a lot of games back and forth. We have a discreet little note that we think it would have been nice if Stortinget could have been with and supported. We record that there is great resistance to giving most people a slightly better daily life, and that's what we just get into the next case -- because we get more of these things for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e815	When the Central Party invites to debate on tolls and shows its populism, it is natural for one to respond. That the Workers' Party gets so angry because the theme came up and the Progress Party shows what is primary policy, but also says what are the compromises, shouldn't surprise. The progress party went to the elections to cut tolls. All the other batches in this room have gone to the choice to increase the toll. The compromise is lower tolls, but not toll removal. That's why the Progress Party is in government well and safely – because we get a direction that we're satisfied with, even if we don't achieve everything. But that's the way it is with all the games. What's the joy, is that there's a lot more crazy built way, at least crazy much more way than the red-green government, with a strong SV, would allow, and there's an even better reason why the Progress Party is still going to sit in government. The interesting thing here is that those who criticise that we have not removed all the tolls, and believe that it is a double game, do not acknowledge that the government has actually proposed to cut the toll – that there is a proposal in the state budget to cut over half a billion dollars, which the red-green parties are against. That's when this becomes a bit of a happy parody, especially for people who sit in the gallery and think that the parties argue for what they're for, and against what they're against. Instead, the Labour Party operates with an accountant policy, where they themselves hardly say what they think, but are very concerned about what the Progress Party believes, and will not recognise that the Progress Party has also reached a compromise. It was already stated in the Sundvolden Declaration that the toll percentage is going down, it didn't say it should go away. We are therefore implementing the government's policy. We're going to keep working like that, work for what we're for, and then we're behind the compromises that the government is implementing. I still think it is interesting for all those who follow this debate and wonder what an alternative would have done here. Then we see that SV has gone hard on the track towards most major and important road projects in District Norway because – horror and horror – people can drive on them! This government has said that good roads in the districts are important, and I am very pleased that the Left has the approach that there are not bad roads to save the environment, but emission-free cars. Then we'll also pull the load very well together. I hope that the representative Myrli will sit down and read a little in the staging reports from the previous ageing period, because there he will find that his then colleague in the transport committee representative Juvik in post promised that the Workers' Party would support any toll cut proposed by the government. There was no reservation, and there was no doubt. Now the representative Myrli says that the Workers' Party will not be involved in cutting tolls. Well, it's okay to change your mind – the Labour Party has done so on a case-by-case basis, even without having to compromise with other parties – but it's not allowed to deny its past. The fact that the Workers' Party was in the last growing-up period to cut tolls, but still not supported it, is an improper fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e828	It is interesting when the representative Sverre Myrli from the Workers' Party believes that the Progress Party creates a lot of games and big debate about a pass-by roof. No, the Progress Party is actually occupied with people most, also by people in Northern Hordland, and occupied by all drivers, by making it easier to moderate a little bit, because we have the opportunity to adjust. It is the Workers' Party that makes a large number of it, which believes it is a problem that someone could get a free pass. It's clear language – then we know that for the Workers' Party it's completely inappropriate to make it fairer. That's not true, because it's the will it's on. But that's especially when the Workers' Party a few years ago was able to join in a comment on market interest rates rather than computational interest rates. It took a few decades for the Workers' Party to understand that it could be tricked because it could be done locally and the driver got it cheaper. But it's possible that the Workers' Party will go back on that too, because then you can do it more expensive, and that's what's the message here today. We're witnessing a lot of double communication, but not from the Progress Party, because we've been honest about it. No, we haven't removed as many tolls as we wanted, but thanks to this government and the cooperation parties, at least the toll share in the projects has not increased. On the contrary, the state's share is increasing. Every day I'm going to work to make it cheaper, more convenient and easier for the driver, not harder. The working party is clearly positioned, the centre part is also positioned, and not least the SV on the team is to make it more expensive. Imagine if you would do it cheaper – it would get out!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e835	I thought I had to make some comments about this project all the time on the back of the debate. There's been a big toll debate, and it's always interesting and exciting. Initially, this is a locally anchored and mainly municipal road project, which the county municipality, surrounding municipalities and industry want to implement. That's what we're trying to facilitate with this toll proposition here today, and what's become a big debate, a maybe faith would be a relatively curative matter. I am a little surprised at some of the objections that come, among other things. by the representative of Myrvold and the Central Party. If it was a wish that this should not be county roads, then one should not have provided for the administrative reform for which one itself was responsible in 2010, for which these roads were actually moved from national road status to county road status. If a wanted greater state contribution into this project, the solution would be a different classification of these pathways. As far as the ceiling is concerned, I would like to say to the representative Myrli that when we now in a comment – although it does not get a majority – that if there is a local desire to do so, a set of roofs can be somewhat lower, yes then you must not view it as a threat. There is, of course, an opportunity – there is an opportunity for local authorities, if they find room for it within this package, to make the package better for those who use the roads a lot. It can't be a big problem if there's room for funding, if there's a local desire to do so, and if there's something local authorities want to do. And then it's the eternal discussion of tolls: we've been dealing with the National Transport Plan in Stortinget five to six months ago. In the national transport plan, we will facilitate what we will do in the next 12 years in the transport sector, mainly on the national road network. In that we also put the leads for the toll percentage in the various projects ahead. We are facilitating the use of tolls – as the representatives of the Progress Party also point out – which are a majority in the UK to use as a source of funding in these types of projects. There's no big disagreement about that, although in this debate it might sound like that. I think at least we who vote in favour of these toll proposals, should not pretend that there is a different attitude to this in the Stortinget than what it really is. When only five to six months have passed since we adopted the National Transport Plan, we will also have to follow it up. And what's interesting in the national transport plan is what the Council of State points out, is that we're putting in instruments to just reduce tariffs -- that's important -- but we're also adding to a state co-financing in the NTP, which means that the relative share of tolls will be less in the future, and not greater.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e846	The big issue today is that we adopt a package for upgrading roads and traffic conditions in North Hordland – long-term measures for which municipal politicians and state politicians have taken a break. That's the big deal. Whether there should be a roof of 40 or 50 passages per month, there is no big deal. That's what was my whole point, and that I've also registered from other speakers in the opposition. It was Tor André Johnsen who made it a big deal, and who started the dance today. He said they had tried to be accepted in the committee so that the pass-by roof could be set to 40. I don't think anyone here is against it if someone locally wants it. If local authorities, the state road service and the department think it's a good idea, so dear friend, let's get started! However, it is impeccable to bring it now when – in the package containing lots of elements – it is negotiated that the ceiling should be 50. That's my point. And it's in the government's proposition, which was presented in August – three months ago. What has happened in the three months that now makes the Right Party and the Advance Party do this to the big case in Stortinget, no one has given an answer. It is a shame that it remains as the big matter from the discussion about the Nordhordland package, because this is really no big deal. The Minister of Transport said that I had said that the Workers' Party would not be involved in cutting tolls. I've never said that – not at all. But I said that I have never been able to promise that there will be lower tolls. But if the Minister of Transport makes a toll proposition to the Stortinget, where he proposes to increase the state share and to lower the toll share, I'm pretty sure he's going to have a majority in the Stortinget for that. It would have been right in these matters of government and the Minister of Transport to increase the government’s share — if that is the government’s policy. I am reasonably sure that the Storting will agree to an increase in the state's share and fall on the toll share. So just to clarify in the end, we support the negotiated agreement that underpins the Nordhordland package. It is detailed and well described in the proposition that this has been dealt with in many rounds both in the municipalities in question and in the county municipality of Hordaland. It has been treated and reviewed in the State Road Administration and the Ministry of Transport, and the government has approved it and presented it to the Stortinget. That is what we support. If the government had intended that it would change the agreement, it should have proposed it in the bill for Stortinget. That was my point.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e857	What we're talking about now is a project that is of great joy to many in the North Hordlands region. We've been working on it for a long time, as we've been saying here. This will strengthen the results, and will increase road safety for those travelling on these routes. It's good that the directorate and the department have provided such a quick treatment of the toll bill that we've got him now, and that we're getting progress in the development. It's a little special to be hanged out as a populist in the toll debate in this room, by a progress party that's constantly going to the option of removing the toll stations. We would like to discuss alternative funding arrangements, if the government and the Progress Party put it forward. But we haven't seen it that far on the table. It was, as the representative Myrli said, the representative Johnsen who brought up the toll discussion here earlier. We are looking to discuss the issues that we have on the table here today. We are looking to find, and to be involved and support, the solutions that someone locally and regionally has found, so that they can have the progress of the project that is now being prepared. That is why we have said that we support the solution that is now presented to us locally and regionally, and that is presented from the Right-front party government. We like to discuss other solutions, because this is to a large extent a county road project – we also have a case later today that is a county road project – and that is a reason why our county municipalities have to go to the step of introducing tolls in order to make progress on their projects. There is simply too little pot for the county road programme around them to be able to finance it in another way. So the Central Party supports the proposal that has been put forward here today, and hopes that we will now make progress on the project – and wish happiness to the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e871	I was actually going to go to the cantina and take a bite of food, but then this was the case with the accusations of the Advance Party against SV – or, so far, a bit of harrowing over SV's policy – and I can't let that go completely uncommented. The progress party adds to SV opinions that they want the SV to have, which they can hack at us for later. They say that SV is not a road party for the districts. SV is just a road party for the districts, but we are not for the big performance projects, for example. four fields for Hoenfoss parallel to a railway. It's illogical for us. It's total madness, we think. But we're going to give 350 million. kr more than the government for the investigation, race improvement and race protection of county roads. We want more bets on the county roads – 600 million. kr more on foot-and-mouth and cycle roads, both on highways and on county roads. That's where we're betting. The state council almost hurled at the fact that SV was against the roads in the districts, he actually said that. That's exactly the opposite that's the case. Otherwise, I must admit with some pride that SV is a railway party and not a party for these four-field performance projects. So we're almost going to get 2 billion. kr more to the railway in our alternative budget. But as the hall has noticed, SV will of course support the package that has been submitted. It was just supposed to be missing – it's very good in that package. I wish North Hordland every success in implementing the package.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e878	I think we should be happy that we agree on the project that we are really discussing. But it's okay that we clean up some ambiguities, so we don't spend four years discussing tolls. Let me first mention the representative Myrli, who said in the pulpit here he would support increased government participation if the government suggested it. I think it was quite understood – at least it was not shaking my head. Then it is a little strange that when the government proposes to grant money for an increased state share, the Labour Party is voting against. On page 106 of the Workers' Party's Alternative State Budget, which they themselves presented, as they themselves have edited and printed, it says that they will cut the 500 – and a little more – million. kr that the government proposes to use to cut tolls. It's a little strange to hear in this room that the Workers' Party is in favour of and will support all the government's proposals on toll cuts, when they take away the money to cut tolls when they present their own budgets. It's a pretty clear sign to me that one says one thing, but does something completely different. We have repeatedly pointed out that it is a little strange that the Workers' Party criticises and wants a given result, but it itself opposes being involved and prioritizing means of achieving that result. I experienced the same thing when the representative Trettebergstien asked me in writing about when we were going to cut tolls on rv. 3/rev. 25, while one is opposed to spending money on cutting those tolls. Then it is actually better that the Workers' Party is honest all the way and says that they want to maintain the level of tolls and want in their state budget to increase the level of tolls. That's a fair point of view. Populism: Yes, it's populism to promise things – which one doesn't intend to do – just because one knows that the voters think it's popular there and then. The criticism of the Center Party is that the Center Party is going around and giving the impression that they're going to cut tolls, while they're actually not there to support the toll cuts. It's populism. The fact that the Progress Party fights for toll cuts, but does not get a majority for its proposals, is quite different from populism. It is democracy and the decision of the majority of the population. Finally, SV gives the impression that they are a lot of road in the districts. But in the alternative state budget that SV has presented, printed and distributed on its own, it is over 5 billion. kr i cut in road projects. And believe me -- it's not money that's just going to build a highway to Honey Foss. There are road sections around the country, Arendal–Tvedestrand, in Bamble – in District Norway – on Helgeland and similar sites. That's where the money has to be taken from. If not, there are imaginary projects that have not yet been launched, but have also not received money in today's budget. Then it is not possible to cut those funds either. It is good that SV is also happy in race protection. It's also the government of the day. We're happy in the county roads, and that's why we've increased the appropriations for them. We are happy to maintain the infrastructure that we already have, but we also have to build new ones, with good capacity. It means good roads between cities, and they're in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e891	The representative of Tor André Johnsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e896	I have to comment a little bit on what comes from the representative Myrli here. I am also surprised that there was such a big case of some small adjustments on a pass-by roof, assuming local agreement, and that much time was devoted to this debate. Swearing Myrli points out that there is no big deal. It's nice to hear. I think it is good that the Workers' Party admits it, and then I wonder why they could not support us in the comment. So to the claim that this is unyielding: it's definitely not unyielding of us in the Progress Party and the Right to make a comment that if there's local political desire or consensus about it, we encourage them to maybe look at the pass-by roof. That's exactly the same principle that we've been incorporated in terms of market interest rates. Then it means that it is also immoderate, and the Workers' Party is involved. We have had unanimous decisions on this in this period and in the previous period. It's nothing more unyielding than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e903	The representative Sverre Myrli has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e908	Yes, the Minister of Transport heard correctly, and I think I'm talking on behalf of a large majority in the Grand Duchy when I say that if he comes to the Grand Duchy with toll propositions and he in the propositions add up to an increased state share, then I'm pretty sure he's going to get a majority for it. But what we're not for is making a heavy-duty compensation scheme – 500 million. The government has proposed next year – where we will first adopt a high toll share, and then we will travel around the country and spend money on toll projects, a few funds. 500 million. kr for all the country's toll projects is a drop in the sea. We are opposed to establishing such heavy-duty schemes. What the Minister for Transport should do is come to Stortinget and increase the State share of the individual toll project. Then we get a real and proper discussion about the level of tolls, and I'm pretty sure he's going to get a majority for what he's proposing in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e915	We had a real discussion about toll levels when the National Transport Plan was dealt with here five months ago. Then the government, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, put up to reduce the bomb tariffs in existing projects, so that it is not only the new projects that come now, that will get an advantage, but also the projects that have been adopted earlier, because it may not be that we think it is good with high tolls on the E6 through Hedmark, while we are to have lower toll rates on the E39 Stavanger-Kristiansand. We want to facilitate that we get a fairer toll level on all projects, and there was actually 6 billion. kr. It's not small money. The decisions the Storting has taken, for which the government has been given a majority, mean about 12 billion. kr less in tolls for the drivers. I don't think it's small money, but it's obvious that the Workers' Party has a slightly different limit on what the drivers are going to have to pay. Now the drivers pay less car-related charges than when the Workers' Party crashed. The Workers' Party would like to be sad. In addition, we would have gotten about 12 billion. kr i further reduction. It's the Workers' Party against it. It is not a bureaucratic and heavy-won system. This arrangement is already easily established, so it's really just to make sure that the money comes, then they are distributed automatically. Had it been so that it required great bureaucratic resources, I could agree with the representative Myrli, but that is not the case. Then the only remaining explanation is that the Workers' Party does not want to spend money on reducing bomb tariffs, but they give the impression that they would support it if there were new projects. But they've been revealed. When they are not willing to finance what is already on the table, there is no reason to believe that the Workers' Party would be with and funded new cut. But for the justice of all motorists throughout the country who pay tolls, I would urge the Workers' Party to reconsider its resistance to toll cuts and support the proposal for which there is now a majority between the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left, so that one can reduce fares around the country. It is expensive to drive a car. It should be cheaper, because the car provides mobility. We need to develop good public and railway infrastructure in addition, so that more people can choose the solutions where it is more appropriate, but punishing the drivers in the districts is unreasonable. It's often the ones that are being punished, because that's where we now need to expand capacity to reduce distances in our long-term country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e924	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e940	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e949	Now we've discussed enough about tolls forward and back again, so we can put it aside and take this as a less toll proposition than the previous one that was being treated. However, it is a road of great importance beyond the Valdres and Gjøvik region – which is the bus and work areas that have the largest access to these parts of Fv. 33, as we're talking about in this toll proposition. The Ministry of Transport has put forward proposals in the proposal for financing the recovery of Fv. 33 on the routes Skardtjernet-Tonsvatnet and Bjørgokreuzet-Nedre Øydgarden in the municipalities of Etnedal and Nord-Aurdal in Oppland. Road 33 is the main link between Valdres and Gjøvik/Toten region, but there is also an important East–West link between E16 in Valdres and Rv. 4 and E6 in the Gjövik region. The road has a standard that is absolutely out of proportion to the function and the traffic base. Funding is based on county funds and tolls. It says in the case paper that there will be plant start in 2017 and completion in 2021, but I have been in contact with the county council about how this is happening, and they say that the offer announcement will take place quickly in the new year, that the plant start will take place in spring 2018, and that the completion will be 1 July 2020 – a two-year extension period there. For those who use the road sections regularly, this is a good news. These are sections with several road accidents per year. In the period 2006–2016 there were a total of 15 traffic accidents with personal injury on these routes. Of these, five were with very serious or serious injuries and ten with easier injuries. The project includes the repair of existing roads with several curve fixes and width extensions, and the sections are dimensioned at a speed limit of 80 km/h. The scheme for the whole extension is signed by the municipalities concerned, and the project is cost-based at 270 million. kr in 2017-krona. Without toll financing, the net socio-economic benefit of the project is estimated at about 91 million. kr. So there's a need to add extra funds here from the county. User payment is central here. The average daily traffic varies, but lies at 2 300 running gear at Bjørgo, and the Bjørgo Cross is crossed by a now sheep with the new E16 extension in South Aurdal. With an average toll tariff of DKK 20 per pass, an annual traffic of approximately 2000 vehicles through the toll station at the time of toll opening in 2020 is expected. A relative growth in traffic has also been assumed in the period ahead, with 1.5 pst. in the beginning and a decrease in growth to less than 1 pst. in 2028. In line with local policy decisions, 50 pst has been proposed. of the development costs is financed by county funds and 50 pst. with tolls, based on the estimated cost of the project of 270 million. kr. A two-way toll recovery shall be carried out at the Vesle Eye. In order for the project to be disbursed within 15 years, it has been calculated that the average per-passenger income must be approximately DKK 19. Tariff category 2, vehicle over 3500 kg, excluding a vehicle of category M1, shall pay twice the fare for tariff group 1. It is an assumption that the tariffs will be adjusted according to the price increase. A 20 pst driver in tariff group 1 is assumed to be present. Discount on the use of electronic chips, cf. Prop. 1 S Appendix 2 for 2015-2016. Upland county authorities have taken decisions to provide a guarantee by means of a self-debt auction for a maximum borrowing of 180 million. kr. In the pessimistic option, the maximum debt is estimated to be approximately 160 million. kr at the end of 2020. The Committee also takes the view that toll tariffs may be lower, based on market interest rates or interest-rate-fixing, in order to benefit drivers. The Committee believes this is a possibility that municipalities and municipalities can benefit from if there is a local desire to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e977	County road 33 is the main road link between Valdres and Gjøvik/Toten region, a nice nature and tourist area. The project for e.g. 33 in Uppland will provide us with better road safety and significantly better accessibility. The whole recovery plan has been adopted in the municipalities concerned. Now we may have had the debate on tolls, but what I wish we could discuss is the County Council's room for action to be a good weigher. It is a well-known matter that we have a aftermath on the That's also how tolls make us never built as much in this country as we do now. The Workers' Party wants county councils to be given the opportunity to become a good weigher, so we propose to give 1 billion in the State budget. kr more for the counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e984	This proposal concerns proposals for financing improvements to the fv. 33 through several municipalities in Oppland. It is a local initiative and wish. Route 33 is the main road link between Valdres and Gjøvik/Toten region. It is that the road has a standard that is disproportionate to this important function. In the Right’s view, this project will address important challenges of road safety and accessibility in this important region – for both the population and business. As in most cases of this nature, the objective of toll financing and development is to achieve a satisfactory standard in terms of both road safety, the environment and traffic management. In line with the local policy decisions, the Right therefore supports proposals for decisions in this matter and looks forward to the work being started, and we wish happiness.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e991	It is good that we are now finally considering funding for the improvement of the fv. 33 in Uppland. The county road is the main road link between Valdres and Gjøvik/Toten region. The road has a poor standard — absolutely no functional standard that such a road should have. It's narrow, and it's inconclusive. It's just bad. Rehabilitation here is of great importance. I would like to remind you that after the Right Party and the Advance Party came to power, the appropriations for the county roads have more than tripled. But unfortunately, it does not seem that this bet has necessarily led to increased bets on county roads, or that the drivers have enjoyed it. Consequently, I allow myself to point out that the municipality of Uppland should probably have done a better job of taking care of its county roads. It's unfortunate that the cost of improving the standard on this county road is being pushed into the driving lists in terms of tolls. The importance of correcting this distance is great, because there are many accidents there. Now we get a better standard, with fewer curves, greater width and even velocity of 80 km/h. The funding will be a 50/50 distribution between tolls and county funds. It's a pleasure that we're finally going to start up, and it's a pleasure that, hopefully, over a few years, we'll get a standard that will improve accessibility and road safety. In this case, we in the Progress Party also consider that a significant part of the funding burden for the repair is placed on the drivers. It is therefore particularly gratifying to see that the Committee considers that toll tariffs can actually be lower than a rate based on the calculation of the technical interest rate by using market interest rates or by binding interest rates. This will benefit the drivers. Furthermore, it is positive that the Committee points out that this is an option that local authorities and county councils can make use of if they so wish locally. There is at least one call that we in the Progress Party are concerned about being followed up. Experience has shown that this will result in a lower interest rate, which in turn will result in reduced toll tariffs. It will delight the drivers and facilitate a simpler and cheaper everyday life for those who depend on the car to get the cab to go into a hectic everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1008	I am pleased with the positive treatment of the project by Stortingen. Route 33 is the main road link between Valdres and Gjøvik/Toten region. It currently has a standard that is not proportionate to the important function it has. There are two sections that need to be corrected. The distance between them was corrected in the 1990s and has better curve, width and carrying capacity than the two sections that are now to be fixed. So here we get a width of 7.5 meters over the entire distance, one gets reduced some of the elevations, and so it gets better not only for passenger cars, but also for heavy transport, which is approximately. 13 pst. of traffic. It will take approx. Four years — that's the estimate — to get this done. The county municipality will be able to set in motion. We emphasise that it is local political support for the project and the way it is financed, and have presented it to the Stortinget. It is also good that road safety is emphasised. It is throughout all the projects we are doing. Making sure that our paths are so good that people can walk safely, that even when people do stupid things, the roads should be so good that you are forgiven for it, must be a goal. However, we hope that people will be careful and respectful, and we will continue to do good road safety work – as one has done in this country over many, many decades.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1019	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1024	This is good news. Road 33 is the main road link between Valdres and Gjøvik/Toten summer time, but also a very important link between Valdres and Gudbrandsdalen in winter time. The road is important for communication and transport between valleys, flatlands and cities – the different parts of the Uppland community – much of the year. Parts of the road do not currently have a standard that is close to its value in use. In this proposition, the Ministry of Transport proposes to finance improvements to Fv. 33 on the routes to which the Council of State has referred. The project includes the improvement of existing roads, and it is good for both visibility and safety when moving here. Soft road users, residents as part-time residents, deserve transparent and safe traffic. Good roads are fundamental to how we live, as we move more and depend on goods and trade supplied by the transport industry, whether raw materials are processed and/or produced out of the world or by the world community. The electoral society has a good place and unfortunately challenges with fewer citizens and changed demography. Fortunately, shorter and faster roads provide opportunities for many part-time residents, for business and growth. Raw materials, energy and nature have the Valdres municipalities a lot of them. One of our challenges is just that our paths aren't good enough to get anywhere safely. Funding is based on county funds and tolls. The centre party believes that the State should take greater responsibility for the development of roads, with increased subsidies for transport and counties. Our counties have an enormous number of ways to manage, but unfortunately, too few funds to have a good enough standard on all the routes. It's good to fv. 33 will now be repaired, but at the same time we have to remember that local communities are taking the bill. Toll financing means that as we travel there, we have to pay for a safe traffic view in addition to our tax contribution. Funding with funds over the county budget for county roads comes from a pot that would normally extend to much more road sections. In order to clarify the Central Party's toll policy for the Council of State: If the states had received even more money, we would not have needed so much toll. Unlike the Progress Party, the Centre Party is not categorical when we come to tolls. Only in my home municipality, Østre Glidre, do we have several kilometers of road on Fv. 278 Robel Road and fv. 288 Beitovegen, which is road-hazardous, where the road year by year is increasingly disintegrating. Now we're going to enjoy funding and expanding fv. Thirty-three. We enjoy a safer travel vein in Uppland. The centre party will be on the road for more development across the country – for you and me – across the country. Hurray for fv. 33!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1039	Like one of the people who uses fv. 33, if not daily, so at least weekly, I'm also happy that there's going to be a significant upgrade on that path. I'm glad. But when the Tor André Johnsen of the Progress Party from the pulpit here says that Oppland County Municipality should use its money differently, I think the representative Johnsen should also answer how the county council should use its money differently. Should less money be spent on higher education? Should less money be spent on regional development? To that is the answer, I suppose, yes, because the Progress Party provides for this in its budgets. I think the representative Johnsen could say something about how Uppland County would spend their money differently. And he could also respond if he believes that this year's government budget helps the county council to do a lot more on its county roads. It is, as you know, quite a scrap of the draft budget that the government has presented. A small challenge: I think you deserve to be answered when you think that you have used the money incorrectly in the county municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1048	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1062	The shameless girls, other women and eventually some boys and men in the minority communities deserve a lot of praise and support for the brave way in which they have raised the debate on social control and honorary violence. I have lived in and followed the development of the environments from which many come, in the Groruddalen and otherwise on the eastern edge of Oslo, and I can confirm through my own experiences and countless conversations and experiences that what they are talking about is actually happening. Everyone has to understand that when I bring up the debate here today, it's doing something for the best, because it's about life in our neighbourhoods, about the living conditions of our friends and neighbors, about the development of our sport, etc., and it's not about immigrant shipwreck. On the contrary, it's about setting up and caring about our fellow human beings. The underlying reason for social control – with harassment and threats of physical and mental honour – is that the environments concerned have brought old traditions and rules from the clan community into our modern democracy, where the freedom, equality and the right to make their own free choice are fundamental. In the clan community, large families choose which family to join within the clan through the marriage of children. This can also have a major impact on the family economy and how it will develop, through marriage and later inheritance. When large families who practice arranged, planned, marriages, take into account the free choice of children alone and expect the children to accept it, they have a major impact on the lives and growth of these children. The girls are protected from growing up in an open and free environment, where they are assimilated to the boys and can become boyfriends and friends with whomever they want. We know that already in the Qur'an schools, many people learn that boys and girls are going to be separate and protected from each other, and that some girls are not allowed to go on childbirth or to participate in other activities after school because they are not going to be with other boys and men than boys and men in close families. We know that someone doesn't get to participate in swimming lessons, in gymnastics, can't go to camp school. We know that clothing should be limited because it should not divert the attention of men and boys. We even belong to the requirement that the fathers, in the context of arranged marriages, should present virginity certificates to the daughters, and that this has to do with the honor of the family. The boys, on their side, experience greater freedom than the girls in moving where they want to, and being part of what they want. But they can also – as the boys with anonymous masks on which I met at a recent seminar – feel their lives and their freedom very limited by the fact that the big family is planning who they are going to marry in the future, that they are given the task of looking after their sister and protecting her honor, that they cannot have natural relations with girls from their own environments in free surroundings – as others can – and that they can easily get a reactionary view of girls and women who live their free lives. For both boys and girls in several of the major minority communities, it is that those who have a different sexual orientation — such as being gay or lesbian — cannot stand up to it without being outlawed. When we want to fight this, we need to intervene and implement equality – boys and girls should experience that they have equal rights from childhood. I mean by that, for example. that there should be national rules to ensure that no exceptions are made to common swimming and common gymnastics, that camp schools should be obliged to participate in – as the other education – children experience closeness to each other that is important in order to become well-known. For example, I also believe that, in return for significant State aid to mosques, there should be the possibility of supervision and transparency around the arrangement in the Quran schools, among others. in the case of gender segregation. I believe at all that there is no need to go along with the basic principles of equality and not having sex segregation in any public offer – leisure, adult education or the like. I believe that from the children, schools, leisure clubs, school health services, health centres and the departments of the oldest children's homes must teach their children the right to participation and consent, to equality, to freedom of lay and not to be dismissed by their parents – that it is prohibited by law in Norway. In order to get on with these things – that we as society should really be able to put our feet down for social control – I believe it is vital that we now manage to stop the represals that are being put in place against boys and girls who will not adapt to the environment's own rules on gender segregation, arranged marriages, the exclusion of them with other legations, etc. The first of the five representations I want to raise today is that children are sent back to their country of origin because they are too integrated, they have become too «western». According to a report from the Institute for Social Research of 2014, 1435 children were Norwegian citizens who had been sent to Somalia and had not returned. In all affected countries — 15 — reviewed, there were 3,285 children who were non-returnable Norwegian citizens. So far this year – the Council of State told me in the Questionnaire a few weeks ago – UD has helped eleven pieces. Clearly, many in this large number of children sent to the most vulnerable countries may have different fates. Not everyone is in Qur'an school with violence, etc., as we have seen in the NRK reports, but it is important that we get an overview of their fate, of how things are going with them. I believe that schools, kindergartens, municipalities, county councils and Nav together should draw up concrete overviews and allow the U.D. access to them, so that the embassies can work on how to deal with the children who are in charge of the countries for which they are responsible, possibly help them home – possibly help the police, if they are talking about detention and other things. I also believe that child protection and schools in a completely different way must use their entire register, all their possibilities, to respond when they have concerns, to prevent children from being sent off by farms, which is the most important thing we can do. If there is a need for changes in the law — the Children’s Protection Act, the Children’s Act, the Passport Act or similar — it is important that the government comes to the Stortinget with it. The other represal I want to mention is that unfortunately there is still a lot of violence in close relationships. Children fight, women fight, boys fight – if they break the rules for, among other things. gender segregation, arranged marriages, etc. At the Stovner Police Station at the beginning of October they told us that until then they had dealt with 70 requests relating to honour issues, and that all these matters were about boys and girls being refused to live their lives as other peers. Only in my own community have I seen three such things lately, so no one has to come and tell me that there are only a few cases. I believe that we need to do much more to inculcate adults, parents, parents' meetings and parents' conversations, that a user's ability to get in touch with them through free core time in kindergartens, etc. All arenas must be used to insinuate that beating children, of course beating women, is strictly prohibited under Norwegian law. I believe that more resources need to be spent on training all those who work in the relevant departments – in schools, leisure clubs, kindergartens, etc. – to see the signals, to convey the signals and to understand the law on professional secrecy so that they cooperate with the police. There will be too many messages for the police, including: from Child Protection, about concerns about violence in relation to what the police are telling me. The third form of represal I'm going to deal with, concerns how we understand coercion, and what the law of coercion includes. There are far more people who are hit by strong mental pressure, by threats that the whole family will distance themselves from the boy or girl if he or she does not marry the one chosen by the great family, that it will have consequences for their whole lives and their future if they do not marry the one planned for them. There are far more who are affected by it than are affected by what we perceive as the most violent form of coercion. I believe it is important that we get signals to the environment that arranged marriages with extensive pressure are also a form of coercion that can be affected by the law, and that we have to go through the law to ensure that it is respected. [[President clubs]] I will come back to several of the measures in the coming articles. That's what I got at first.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1092	Talida's out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1097	I would like to start by thanking the representative, Mr Bøhler, for addressing an incredibly important topic – social control and honorary violence in Norway. Not least, several strong stories told by the NRC about young people who have been sent back to their parents’ country of origin have made a strong impression on me and many others. I believe social control and honorary culture is one of the greatest integration challenges of our time. In Norway, we give our citizens a great deal of freedom over their own lives, to make important choices themselves, and to live life as a desire within the laws and regulations that apply. We often take this freedom for granted and have easy to forget that very many people in the world are not allowed to control their own lives. A large majority of people in the world do not have the freedom to believe what they want, or not believe, or to say what they mean. In very many societies, women are inferior to men and treated as secondary citizens. Many of those who have migrated to Norway come from societies where freedom for individuals is scarce, where girls are treated differently from boys, and women have less opportunities than men. We know that social control and honorary violence are also taking place in Norway, that it affects girls and women with a minority background, but that boys in the same settings also experience a pressure to continue the culture of honor even if the family lives in Norway. It is a culture that is directly at odds with the Norwegian and Western values of freedom, equality and the right to live as you wish. I believe it is important that we, as a society, make clear from the very beginning when people come to Norway, what laws, regulations and values our country is based on. It is therefore important that we have got 50 hours of training in Norwegian laws, regulations and values on asylum reception. We're going to expect those who choose to come to Norway to comply with our first day rules. I am upset by the stories of young people who are forced to stay abroad because they have become Norwegian. Parents sending young people who have grown up in Norway to Qur'an schools where physical punishment is used if they do not repeat the Qur'anverse well enough is simply incomprehensible to me and everyone else who has children. Therefore, the government is working to look at grips that can reinforce its efforts to address this phenomenon. I'll mention some of them here. The government will look at the possibility of holding passports so that parents are not allowed to take children abroad when they intend to harm them. We will examine whether electronic border control can provide for the possibility of preventing the exit from the Schengen area by providing information on, for example, child protection decisions prohibiting the exit. Furthermore, we will review individual cases where young people have been sent to their home country and have come back, in order to better understand what the Norwegian authorities have done right and where it fails. This is important to see if there is more we can do in these matters where the child is often known to Norwegian authorities, such as child protection. We will also update the guidelines on children left abroad and organise meetings with relevant organisations that receive support, in order to make them responsible and reach out to parents. We will carry out an information campaign so that young people know where to turn and what to do in a situation where they are subjected to social control or are afraid to be sent out of the country. We will review and establish better procedures for alerting public agencies such as Nav, school, police, child protection and health care, so that these children do not fall between more chairs. The government takes problems related to social control and honorary violence seriously. On women's day this year, a plan entitled "The Right to Control Your Own Life" was launched. Action plan against negative social control, coerciveness and sexual mutilation. I think one of the most important things is that those who work with children and young people, whether in kindergarten, school, child protection or elsewhere, have knowledge of these questions, that they dare to ask the right questions and know where to go with their concerns. It is therefore extremely important to continue to inform and educate relevant professional groups on these issues. Not least, it is important that children and young people who are exposed to honorary culture and social control know where they can get help. We must continue to disseminate information on how young people can get help. For some it goes too far, and they have to break with the family. We have a comprehensive aid system that can help young people in need of help – the helpline of the Red Cross, minority counsellors in schools and housing for those who have to get away from their own family because the situation is so serious, or because they have managed to escape back to Norway after being sent to their home country for marriage, to be integrated there or to be snorted. Next year we will have a mentoring system in place, where young people who have broken out of the environment and struggled for their own freedom will be able to have a person to whom they can rely in the tough situation this is. Ultimately, this is about integration, or really about integration failure. Being integrated does not just mean that you have come to work and do yourself financially. Equally important is being integrated into the values on which our society is based, and respecting and complying with the laws and regulations that apply in our society. How successful we are in integrating is also about how many are to be integrated and what demands are made. If we are to succeed in the future with integration, we must keep track of immigration to Norway. Only since 2012 have nearly 80,000 residence permits been granted for refugees and family reunification for refugees. Many come from countries where we see that culture is quite different from Norway, where honorary culture and social control are common. In my meeting with young people who have been exposed to this, we have come up with the importance of the size of the environments at home. If there is a large group with the same background that wants to maintain honorary culture and social control, the control of the individual, whether in a shopping mall or in a school, becomes more extensive. Only Malta and Sweden have made stays for several refugees in the period 2008–2016 in relation to the population. In other words, we have major challenges with integration in the future. We also see that social control and culture of honor continue to exist even though some families have lived in Norway for several generations. It says something about what a challenge we're facing. At the same time, we see that this is a positive development. It is very gratifying that more and more young people with immigrant backgrounds stand up for their rights and speak honorary culture and social control in the middle of the opposite. It is good that more people are in contact with and get help through the offers aimed at people who are subjected to violence, abuse and social control. I believe it is important that those who work with children and young people have the knowledge to be able to tell parents or other helpers when not everything is right. I think it is important to be clear to these parents that girls and boys have equal rights in Norway. I think it is important to be clear what expectations we have of those who come to Norway and stay here. We have to be clear on which laws, regulations and values apply here. It is important to bear in mind that while policy solutions and decisions are important to combat these kinds of values and attitudes, it is also essential that the environment itself takes a necessary settlement with this culture. We have many laws and regulations, but it does not help if they are not followed – and at least not if we are not able to reveal those who violate our laws. Of course, it is a long way to go for children to break up with their parents or to report whether their parents are exposed to them. When they do that, we're going to set up. I also think it is important to say that we cannot afford out of this. We can't vote out of it either. In particular, changes in attitudes and cultural changes are necessary for those who choose to come to Norway and who are so fortunate to live their lives in our country. That is why it is essential that the environment itself should take this into account. I can assure you that the government will continue to work to see if there is a need for legislative changes or other measures, including by the authorities, to strengthen efforts against culture of honor and social control. I hope we can work together well on how to combat culture of honor, honour and social control.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1143	I thank the Council of State for the article and for drawing up some ways we can move forward, especially with regard to children who have been sent to the country of origin. I would like to take this opportunity to ask for the follow-up of some other points that are important in relation to this. I talked about arranged marriages and a reprisal that comes when women who want to free themselves make the heavy decision to leave such marriages. After divorce under Norwegian laws, they encounter the problem that the religious marriages in the mosques will not be abolished if the man does not. The man can refuse, and he can marry more people without accepting a divorce from the woman he has been married to. I believe that it is necessary to provide state aid to the mosques that they do not practice sharialover, as this is. It is in the Sharia Law that you have rules on the total dominance of the man within the religious marriage. I believe that we must ensure that all Norwegian mosques practice what is being done in the Bosnian mosque, what is being done in the Rabita mosque, as far as I know, i.e. to deny religious divorce as soon as it is done under Norwegian law, in a legal way, and that there must be a connection between the inception of religious marriages – which are ceremonies you can have and continue to have – and Norwegian law. The second thing I want to do is to ask for more in the follow-up, is that women are pressured not to accept jobs and places of action from Nav if it is about having to affect men, in care professionals, if it's about working where alcoholic beverages are sold, for example. in shops or restaurants, or where halalmat is not only sold, or that they must have a certain clothing, etc. In June last year’s report on integration, the size decided that the rules should be tightened up, so that Nav’s work and actions could not be rejected on that basis. But those I'm in contact with who work on the sub-plane in Nav say that they haven't seen anything about changes in attitudes, that they haven't been given any changed signals about how the regulation is going to be applied more stringently in the future. So I want to ask the Council of State to follow up on it, because it was an important, unanimous decision in connection with the Communication of Integration. I have noticed that the Council of State has talked about it on some occasions, including national rules on swimming lessons, and it is important that it is also followed up by the government, so that we see that something is happening in practice. Too many people can agree with these debates, but we must now also show that we are taking the consequences of this through concrete measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1158	There are several departments working on integration policy, because different fields are under different government governments, but in terms of Sharia legislation and the dissolution of marriage in mosques, the Minister of Culture and the Government have sent a proposal for new religious and life-view legislation to consult, among others. states that if a religious or life-view society commits serious crimes or encourages crime, State aid can be withheld. I believe that this will remedy the situation and help these women to report if there is such practice in some religious communities. As far as the second question is concerned, that you cannot take up work for religious or cultural reasons, we have checked it with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which is clear that the legislation today says that you can stop benefits for people who refuse to accept work or work-oriented measures for religious or ideological reasons. So there's nothing wrong with the guidelines. What's important then is that we get this information out to the outside part of the building, and that it's being followed up in practice. So I just want to say that we definitely have a way to go on. There's more we can do. And I very much agree with the representative Bøhler that some of the key here is in kindergarten, and not least in school. The fact that those who grow up today know what rights they have, get information from an early age about what opportunities you have in life in Norway, whether you're a girl or a boy, I think it's incredibly important. Education related to other types of rights, such as children’s rights and children’s abuses, is taking place early today. You start it very early. I believe that much more should be done, where there is a need, through these cultural aspects, which may be a challenge for some young people. Then it is important that their classmates, who are not in these cultures, learn about it, so that they can be supportive and see which signals to consider as you grow up to be able to detect, help and assist their fellow sisters and fellow brothers. I think we should do more. We've done a lot up until now, but that's more to do. That is why we are now working on many points – even more than those I was going to mention in my post – with regard to how we should prevent children from being sent abroad and subjected to criminal acts, as much of this is.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1169	First, I want to commend the representative Jan Bøhler for raising this issue on the political agenda. We're lucky to live in an amazing country like Norway. Last week CNN had a case: Norway is the luckiest country in the world. The freedom we have in Norway has not come about by itself. The struggle for freedom has always been held in this Chamber – the fight for workers’ rights and the fight for equality. If you are lucky and have had the opportunity to come to Norway, you need to accept the most important values on which Norway is based. It is freedom, democracy and equality. I am surprised that some people have doubts about the unculture and attitudes that are the basis for their escape to Norway. It's sad, but those attitudes and that unculture will never get ground in Norway. We have to be clear on what values we want the Norwegian society to build on. We need to make the fathers and mothers understand that we live in Norway, and here we do not accept unculture and social control. The Workers' Party has promoted a number of proposals on requirements for religious communities receiving State aid. We know that Muslim religious communities through the mosques have become the largest meeting places for many Muslims in many communities, and especially for mother and feudal regeneration. That is why Muslim religious communities have a great responsibility. We have a Minister of Culture who is far too weak in these questions. I hope the Minister for Integration can be as clear as the Workers' Party. We believe that the Muslim religious communities should work with integration. It means no to choral travel, no to social control and religious courts. This means that immigrant women are to participate in the labour market. This shall be repeated and repeated in their premises. They have to report, they have to open up, and they have to work closely with child protection, police and local authorities. Muslim religious communities shall have at least 40 pst. women in the boards. It's not that there are no ladies in the mosque, it's just that the men don't let them get away with it. Here, we're going to raise Norwegian equality values: ladies are going up and down. If there are any mosques that will not comply with these requirements, the consequences are cut off in State aid. While we have a Minister of Culture sitting in the same booth as religious leaders and imams, who say no, no, no to the Labour Party proposal, I hope we have a Minister of Integration who goes from empty rhetoric to action. The working party in this room is ready to put in place tough and clear measures and requirements. Why does the government hesitate?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1186	We live in a free and liberal state of law, where everyone has the right to say, mean and believe what they want. We live in one of the world's most equal countries. We have the right to choose who we love ourselves, we can be friends with those we want and engage in the leisure activities we want. We can even take the job or education we want. Of course, parents have an influence on what their children do, but also children have fundamental rights to be heard and decide more the older they get. When we reach the age of 18 and are authoritative, we can decide for ourselves, but we also get more responsibility. For some, these rights are not a reality. Too many people experience limitations in their freedom from their family or from their community. They are deprived of the right to decide on their own lives. This applies in particular to young girls, but also to boys, from immigrant settings, but it is also a problem in other settings. Some people are told what to wear, or who they can be with, and there are people who experience anger, threats and violence when they raise their voice in the social debate. Some are subjected to forced sex and circumcision, and those who are subjected to it live with lasting burdens that limit their ability to participate in society. Negative social control and sexual mutilation are serious violations of Norwegian law and human rights, and it is a social problem that concerns us all. It's also one of the greatest equality struggles of our time. With the Right in Government, work has been high on negative social control and equality, and it will continue, because it is important for the individuals affected, but it is also important to achieve the government's objective of a sustainable welfare society. If there's someone outside or outside, it's not sustainable. In March of this year, the government launched an action plan against negative social control, forced marriage and sexual mutilation. The Action Plan contains 28 different actions in five areas of action: We need to strengthen the legal protection of vulnerable people. We need to strengthen the help of people who break up with family and networks. We will work on changes in attitudes and practices in affected environments. We need to strengthen our service offer. We're going to do more research in the field and we're going to have increased knowledge sharing. But we can't be satisfied. We cannot accept negative social control, honorary violence or sexual mutilation. The police also play a very important role. I am glad that the police reform also means that we have more policemen in the streets, more who can become acquainted with the local environments, and who can do preventive and outreach work. But this is not a task just for the police. When the police connect, the negative social control has already gone too far. In the coming period, we will continue to follow up the 28 actions of the Action Plan, but we will also continue to do so. In the government budget for next year, money is allocated to a special mentoring scheme for young people exposed to negative social control, and in the budgetary unity between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, we also get 5 million. kr to Born Fri – Contact Forum for Minority Women and Honorary Culture. We must be uncompromising when it comes to preserving our free, liberal and democratic rule of law. It also assumes that we are uncompromising on behalf of those who experience negative social control, honor-related violence and coercion. The changes of opinion we need will not only take place through political decisions. They happen through people standing up and walking in front. It is incredibly good that there are more and more young people, especially young women, who stand up and oppose the negative social control they experience. I want to say from Stortinget's pulpit that they have each one of us behind them, and we're going to make sure to help them as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1221	I very much appreciate the fact that Jan Bøhler is raising this debate, which for years has been marked by great cowardice among large parts of the political environment. The Progress Party has been in this debate for almost 20 years, and a review shows that throughout all these years, we have been promoting a number of proposals that have been defeated – proposals that we have failed to make, but which are now partly the policy in force. Things happen, but it goes too slowly. Young women with immigrant backgrounds have seen that the Progress Party is fighting their fights, and they are joining our party. It has been instructive to hear their stories and see how deeply they want those who come after them to not go through what they have experienced. They feel, rightly, failed. One of these new members told us about how she was coerced into her youth. After several years of marriage, she chose to break out. It's hard to hear her tell about the anxiety and loneliness that comes from breaking out of a marriage, because then you automatically break all the ties to their entire family and their entire network. You have no one to go to, you're being viewed as dirty, and threats become part of everyday life. The worst thing, she said, was that her child is treated the same way. Her child ‘heirs’ her ‘pity’. The challenges of social control and coercion are not new. I myself experienced this with people I knew when I was young. Looking at close quarters, how terrible this was for these girls, made me never understand then, nor can I understand now how parents think this is good for their children. But this shows how deep traditions are, and how demanding it is to change what you've grown up with. In debates about prostitution, human trafficking, rape, crisis centres, forced marriage, honour culture and social control, we usually talk about girls. But all of these events also happen to boys, and I want to stress the importance of recognizing that these are themes that hit both sexes. For me, it is a paradox that the Workers' Party, which believes health centres are an important prevention area, believes that it is not essential for all children to meet a health sister. The guidelines for this service state that the best way to detect care failure, abuse, violence or coercion is to deal with the child and its interactions with parents. Then at least the Workers' Party should be at least concerned that the municipalities caught up with the children who never showed up at the health centre. Brothers are often assigned to look after their sisters. Amal Aden told the Municipal Report of a Somali boy who did not want to control his sister, as he was commanded. This meant that he himself was being bullied and hoarded, and that the environment around him thought he was a man without a spine. I therefore fully agree with Amal Aden that it is time for us to challenge the boys to break out of the unculture with social control and coercion, and encourage them to stand up for their sisters' right to make their own choices. If brothers and sisters stand together against unculture, we will come to a change more easily. In the context of the new Action Plan, the right to decide over their own lives against negative social control, forced marriage and gender mutilation, a mentoring system shall be developed. One of these young immigrant women fighting this fight was very happy to contribute to Friday's recording meeting on the scheme. Here she could tell children's protection, police, crisis centres, family protection and centres of expertise what she thought the auxiliaries could do to provide better help. Of course, it is important that those who are at the heart of the issues are those who are involved in shaping the changes. Then I'm very proud that the Norwegian people fence around and lift them up from the immigrant communities that stand up in public in protest. Although most people have to live with threats from their own people, they have – and do – an enormously important job. The support they get from most people, I know it means a lot to them, and to them I just want to say, we politicians can do more, but none of us can do what you do. Their work is invaluable. My hope is that we should now be more able to take this important debate without drawing the Racism card on a pure reflection, but that we will move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1244	A well-functioning rule of law shall ensure that the laws and framework of society are equal for all. We have a vision of an open society based on trust between people, which many in this room share. We generally agree in this Chamber on the measures to create this open society. Our party programmes contain clear positions on honorary violence, forced marriage and the use of social control to prevent free participation in Norwegian society. The Prime Minister and eight government councils are behind an action plan against negative social control, forced marriage and gender mutilation that will apply for the years 2017 to 2020. ‘The right to decide on your own life’ is the action plan and it is a follow-up to several requests from the Stortinget Government. The foreword to the action plan includes some sentences that are important to bring with them, and that I think we agree on. It's called: ‘Norwegian laws, regulations and values set a framework for all people living in Norway. Within these limits, each individual has the freedom to determine how they will live their lives. [[...]] Many people take the right to decide who you want to marry, or the right to terminate a marriage, for granted. But it's not like that for everyone." Social control and physical and mental awe are usually linked to immigration into Norway bringing with it religious and cultural practices other than those that most people use for our society. This may be the case to a large extent, but excessive social control and honorary violence are also found in special settings in Norwegian society. We must not forget that when we take this important debate. The action plan has several examples of this. We have traditionally had – and still have – closed environments in our society that use the Bible as a tool to suppress children and youth freedom in the same way that others use the Koran. This must therefore not be a debate for or against Islam, but a debate on how in our society we build respect for the continuation of social values that most of us agree on, regardless of religious affiliation. The representative, Mr Bøhler, has an important point in his interpellation when he points out that we in Norway have a number of measures against honour, but that we have less taken up the underlying causes. In this context, Bohemia refers to the acceptance of women’s freedom and equality and how many from childhood experience that girls and boys do not participate in common arenas. I think the most important measures we can put in place to turn around girls and boys' right to growth and a future based on their own choices and free development opportunities are linked to the influence of closed environments through knowledge, awareness-raising work and greater social interaction across cultural and religious boundaries across all arenas. This must also be done through the real follow-up of the action plan measures. Of course, the law has to be adapted to the basis on which we think it should be based in order to be part of Norwegian society, but it's not certain that it's the law paragraphs we have, it's something wrong with it. Nor is it the establishment of closed environments that appear on the side of Norwegian social norms, we have to break through. Parallel society is a evil that every society has to fight. When some groups live apart from the big community, interaction and impulses become minimal and thus corrections of perceptions. The workplace, school and non-governmental organisations are crucial venues for building bridges over religious and cultural differences. The integration of immigrants into working life is therefore important. Schools and kindergartens where children from different environments learn together and develop together are essential to bridge inequalities. Our organisational life is another arena that is very important for the integration of Norwegian society. The kids are most concerned with football or other activities, but for society is the community they establish with other kids, perhaps the most important thing. Similarly, participation by different parent groups in waffle cutting and sport is the most important thing for sport, but for society it is equally important that the grade of hard work contributes to an increase in knowledge of Norwegian society and understanding of the value base on which it is based. There will always be cases where we can't change behavior through information and positive influences. It is important that we put up a hard fight when there is a violation of our law. We shall not use religious and cultural differences as grounds for not intervening in violation of Norwegian law. Then we take the attacker's side at the expense of the victim. It must not be allowed to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1267	Equality and freedom cannot be reconciled with the oppression of women and children, whether they are camouflaged as religion, culture, tradition or honor. Cultures shall be disturbed and cultures shall be changed. That's why the world has moved forward. And that's why we're going to be equally unmerciful towards traditional, cultural or religious oppression, no matter how it shows up. For it can't be useful, sail for the one who uses God as an excuse to keep women and homosexuals down, whether it be in Christian congregations, Muslim assemblies or other assemblies. The shameless girls Nancy, Amina and Sofia showed us the way. I've been working with such brave women for the past 20 years. Some of them are now in the organisation Born Free, which I am very happy to have been founded and will have working conditions ahead. They fight this, against social control and the culture of honor, and they challenge the mighty traditions and the mighty men on their own premises. It is important that we stand behind them, listen to them, what they think needs to be done to change this. They refuse to allow their struggle to be kidnapped by political forces that will abuse it to stamp all immigrants and Muslims who trap people and then split between majority and minority. They're doing it in a way that's going to build a new Norwegian community, and we have to stand up for that. In the context of the Communication of Integration, SV promoted a proposal to draw State aid to religious communities that support extreme social control, and we were given a majority in favour of it. I'm glad, but I'm waiting for the follow-up. It's not just about crime, as the Council of State was now up and saying, it's about how to argue and put it into words, whether you think women and kids should subdue themselves or not. Another organisation that I have enjoyed working with since the 1990s is SEIF. They're doing a fantastic job. They're on the aid side. They work quite still, but on the aid side, helping many of those who have been exposed to serious threats. What they're telling us is that there's been more bureaucracy and clientization in the work they're doing. They have previously disposed of crisis homes that they used when it was a breach. And then it's serious, then you just have to put up a protective wall. It's no longer possible, it's taken over by Bufdir, and now they're addicted to sitting any longer at the crisis center, because it takes time to get into these dwellings. Previously, SEIF also mapped out the security measures needed around them, for example. those who have to live by code 6, and as far as they know, or I know, none of them they placed, were found. And that's incredibly important. So now much of this takes much longer. I think there's a lot on the help page that we can look at, working with these organizations in a much more active way. They can do a bigger job than they're allowed to do today, and they'd like to do it. And they know these kids. Then there are several now who have talked about a mentoring arrangement, and I am pleased about that. I don't quite know what it contains yet, but what's being pointed out, and has been quite obvious for a long time, is that the post-protection, as I'll call it, for the young people who stay alone, needs to be strengthened. They become quite a lot of them, because they're being cut out of their family, and it's very serious. I think there are few of us who really understand what that means. So it's going to be incredibly important for us to be able to recruit parts of the immigrant population, both in health centres, in child protection and in schools everywhere, so that there are some people who trust in these environments and can reduce the distance and the fear that is there to use the aid that actually exists in many of these cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1282	Equality and equality are about the right and the freedom to be themselves and to choose their own lives. All people shall have equal rights and opportunities in society — equal rights and opportunities to exploit their abilities, live their lives and participate actively in society. Norwegian society is built on the individual's social and moral freedom to shape their own lives. Nevertheless, many in Norway do not have this freedom. This applies especially to minorities, and mainly to women and girls. Lack of freedom in one's own life and negative social control deprives individuals of the opportunity to shape and live one's own life as desired. But equality isn't just about sex. It's also about equal rights, regardless of function, sexual orientation, age, ethnicity and religion. The struggle for equality is still a struggle for freedom – the freedom to be with those you want and to go in the clothes you want, the freedom to take the education and the job you want, the freedom to say what you want and believe in the god you want, the freedom to love whom you want and to marry whom you want, but also to divorce. Equality is having real opportunities, and not everyone has. Violence in close relationships, hate crime, threats and shenanigans and stereotypical gender roles are issues linked to gender inequality. I would like to thank the representative Jan Bøhler for taking the initiative in this interview and for his long commitment to this. Honorary violence and culture prevent people, men and women, from living free lives, and it causes many people to live in fear and experience social control and mental and physical violence. In some settings in Norway, this is unfortunately widespread. This is a theme that needs to be addressed further in the public vocabulary. We can't be indifferent to human beings being unfree because of culture of honor and honour. No reason can defend violence – not honor, not shame, not lack of self-control, not intoxication – no reason. And we who are politicians have to address the important questions in several arenas. It is absolutely necessary that we make an effort to teach children about equality. We also have to keep fighting for the formal rights, because they're not obvious, and the day we take them for granted, we're at risk of losing them. To have an equal society, free from culture of honor and negative social control, we need more than formal rights. We have laws that prevent child marriage and sexual mutilation. We have a marriage law that also gives all lesbians and gays the right to marry, and that goes the right way – there are several steps on the way. But we won't achieve more equality unless our children learn equality and equivalency. Equality has to be learned, and it doesn't come of itself. The school has a key role to play in this work, but many organisations are also important and necessary contributors. I am pleased that the Left in the budget negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Government have been able to take advantage of our proposal to set aside 5 million. in 2018 to the newly created Foundation Born Free, which is to work for equality regardless of gender, faith and background, and which is to take part in both the debate and support the struggle for individual freedom against shame and negative social control.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1299	I would like to start by thanking Jan Bøhler, who has put this important matter on the agenda. For the Workers' Party, the struggle for freedom and equality has always been a red thread in our policies. Individuals shall not have to fight the small and large battles alone, but shall experience the same silence and freedom of choice. An important part of today's great struggle for freedom and equality is the social and cultural pressure that many boys and girls face in choosing how they want to live their lives. In the case of shame and honorary culture, it is obvious that sexual mutilation, coercion and other abuses against the individual are prohibited. At the same time, it's not that everything can be solved by the public. We must actively support people in the environment who fight every day against negative social pressure and honour culture. We cannot accept that parents or siblings exercise social control in their families. Girls are often hit. What must be done to ensure that men who lack the acceptance of women's freedom and equality, who govern women's lives by balancing the border between forced marriages and arranged marriages, with a great deal of pressure, change attitudes? So far, the Council of State has only talked about the problems without taking real action. To the extent that the government is concerned with equality, it's something that's just going to come of itself, not something we're going to take political action to achieve. It won't last. We must actively propose policies to change attitudes to men who have a lack of acceptance for women's freedom and equality. That's the only way we make changes for these girls. Active equality policy is a keyword. What action will the Council of State take against men who prevent women from living their lives as they choose? Now I don't just want to hear empty words and problem descriptions, but what active measures the Council of State sees fit, so that every woman in Norway today can live the lives they want. The Labour Party has made good proposals, both in the past and today, and we hope the government will go from speech to action.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1312	I think it's very good that Jan Bøhler is engaged in the fight against honour and social control. I myself have become acquainted with the so-called culture of honor, both as a family violence coordinator in the police and as project manager for a question of honor, which was a dialogue project under the auspices of the conflict council. I have met many despaired – young and adults, women and men – who have a great desire in life, and that is to have the freedom to choose a partner, education and dress themselves and not to be watched, monitored and gossiped about. Unwanted social control and honour-related violence are a major social problem. There's been a long, hard time around the theme, perhaps because many people have been afraid to bore other cultures on their toes. In that case, it is misunderstood. This is about a cultural collision. It is the collective culture that meets an individual culture. It is important to understand the conditions and conditions under which collective and honor-related culture has developed. Under poverty and with a weak, corrupt state, it is important to have loyalty and respect for the big family, just to survive, and individual needs are set aside. Important values then become obedience and virtue, and a central element is a kind of honor borne by women, often referred to as the sexer. A virtuous daughter who is married away can, in principle, secure a future for an entire family. Therefore, these girls must be taken care of and taken care of. In Norway, we have economic and political security, which results in greater freedom for individuals. All that freedom seems threatening to the culture of honor, and the grip on the children, and especially the girls, is being turned on. Boehler talked about how we should address the underlying reasons for this. There are difficult issues that are essentially about integration and inclusion, and that we do not close our eyes to abuse, social control and the lack of equality. I don't think there's going to be any change either if individuals from culture stand up and fight. There has to be another conflict, another confrontation, and the stories of these girls and boys have to come out. We see that a lot of people have emerged: Shabana Rehman, Amal Aden, Iram Haq, Deeyah Khan – and now Nancy, Amina and Sofia, who have written the book Shamless to their fellow sisters. Then we need politicians and the media and other actors to engage and give these women and men a platform to stand on and secure so that they can go right with culture. We see that the attention on this topic has increased in recent years, and the media has done a very important job of giving these people space. The government has announced an increased effort against coerciveness, sexual mutilation and social control. Here, a lot of grips are taken. A new action plan came this year. Police, child protection, conflict advice, mosques and non-governmental organisations are becoming important. We want to facilitate the arenas for dialogue around cultural differences, and there I can mention, among other things. Shabana Rehman's project Born Free and Sister to Sister in the Church's City Mission in Trondheim. Both are now supported by the State budget. Working against negative social control requires efforts at many levels. It is, as I said, about integration and inclusion and that as a society we are uncompromising in terms of violence, human rights and women and the ability of men to determine their own lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1327	I want to have a slightly general and historical perspective on what's obviously happening today, and go back in time, because some of the people who have taken the word here have problems with memory. The representative Boehler has lived his whole life in Groruddalen. In politics, he has used this background industriously. His residence address will give him extra legitimacy to feel something about the development of the valley. Yeah, I wish it was that simple. If he has followed, he must have seen the development with his own eyes. He must have seen and found increasing immigration, ethnic Northmen moving out, segregation, the spread of Islam, the Code of Honour, machoculture, increased violence, young boys with immigrant backgrounds harassing girls, women treated as second-class citizens. He must have observed that more and more girls and women go with hijab to school and work. He must have reflected on what this is all about. He must have seen that the willingness to integrate is limited, and he must have seen that the common values of our society in words are based on, do not resonate with very many with the background of Muslim countries. It's really not that weird. In 1990, foreign ministers from 45 of 57 Muslim countries adopted their own human rights, the Cairo Declaration. The declaration adheres to the idea of human rights, but at the same time says that the Islamic values are superior to human rights, as they are interpreted in the UN variant. As Professor and author Terje Tvedt writes in his new book The International Breakthrough, all of the major messages, propositions and NOUs have pointed to the UN Declaration of Human Rights as the objective and means of foreign policy, understanding that this is a universal ambition shared by all, regardless of culture and religion. Tvdt has reviewed all documents submitted to the Stortinget dealing with immigration into Norway, and notes that all governments, back to the 1970s, have the aim of establishing a multicultural society and that immigrants should have freedom of choice when it comes to adapting to their new country. The Brateli government even wrote in 1973 that it is the task of the state to facilitate this freedom of choice and that immigrants who want it should be offered a real opportunity to maintain and further develop their cultural and religious character. It continued with Nordli, which clarified that the opportunities for immigrants to practice their own religion should be strengthened. Not least, we see this in Brundtland, which in two reports states that immigrants themselves must determine how much they want from Norway. The common feature of both reports is that Norwegian culture is omitted and replaced by the terms «rikskultur» and «central culture». In the second report, attention was also paid to the alleged xenophobia and racism of the North. Yes, think of that background, that the Workers' Party has promoted so many big messages and NOUs who have said what I am saying now, when the representatives Gharahkhani and Bøhler say that the Workers' Party has promoted so many proposals. Everything is to be subordinated to the will of Allah, and the Sharia laws are to lead people into the right path. Article 1 of the Cairo Declaration states: «All human beings form one family» united in «their subordination to Allah and descent from Adam.» In addition, it says: ‘All but are equal in terms of basic human dignity.’ And... «No one has superiority over another exception on the basis of piety and good dids.» The premise of the text is that people are not the same, to Allah faith must be a distinction. These are not my words, but from Terje Tvedt's new book, which I hope Jan Bøhler, journalists most and interest groups will read. The Cairo declaration was never debated in Norwegian policy. It didn't fit in. Therefore we continued as before: Islam should not be mentioned in a word. This is also not done in wholesale notifications and NOUs. Nor are Norwegian culture or Norwegian values mentioned. What about Norway? What constitutes this culture of honor which we ourselves have allowed to develop, not least the Workers' Party, which has driven this process? It has been a wild policy, a wild policy from the first day – a misguided policy, possibly, but a misguided policy. Well, we've got marriages and arranged marriages, girls who are sent to the parents' country of origin to go to Qur'an schools, and spouses who are picked up in the parents' country of origin, we see hatred of homosexuals, hatred of Jews, the absence of freedom of faith, the absence of equality, imams that spread intolerance in the name of Islam, physical punishment as part of the education, lack of pluralism and collective understanding of society, and not least the absence of individual freedom at all levels. All this while Jan Bøhler hasn't lifted a finger. Rather, he has joined two teams with partner organisations and a collective Medie-Norway, now the last three pages of the Class struggle. He has allowed irresponsible immigration that has contributed to this, and he has distanced himself from concrete measures that the Progress Party has promoted over many years, and not least the ten advices to immigrant parents that I myself have promoted for some years ago, which were called Stalinist.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1364	The interpellant takes up a very important theme, and that's good. I thank the Council of State for a good and offensive attitude in this debate. There are few things, if anything, that make my blood boil more than knowing that there are many young people with immigrant backgrounds in Norway who live as second-class citizens, because they are not allowed to decide about their own lives in the same way that most others in Norway take for granted. We can't accept that. In many areas of Norway, we have zero visions – in terms of traffic fatalities, traffic damage and a number of other things. We also need a zero vision when it comes to social control. No one in Norway should have to tolerate restrictions on how they live their lives, no one should have to tolerate restrictions of the kind we see, in choosing a spouse, choosing a girlfriend, living out their sexual orientation, making important decisions in their own lives. Not a single person, and especially not a single youth with a migrant background, will have to live in Norway in 2017 and have such limitations in their lives. The council said that's not all we can adopt away. I don't remember exactly what words she used, but she thought that's not all politicians can decide to disappear. There is a reason why social control exists in Norway today. There's a reason that the stories we've heard quite a few of the last few weeks can exist. It is because many people live in Norway who think this is good and good. There's someone who maintains social control, someone who looks after who's with who and who's hanging out with who, and that people don't live one for Western or one for Norwegian life. I therefore want to challenge all the immigrant communities, the Muslim environments and all the other immigrant communities, the religious communities, the parents, the families, brothers, sisters, I will challenge all those who live with this in their environments, to take responsibility, to stand up and say that we do not accept this, and that none of us should sit still and watch that immigrant youth in Norway in 2017 will live with this kind of hair-tracing, unacceptable limitations. This can happen in Norway because someone wants it to be that way. The day that all these environments themselves take responsibility and say that enough is enough, will also be the beginning of ending social control in Norway. I appreciate the attitude of the Council of State. It is important and necessary and shows that it is not the government that should be involved in social control measures. But the biggest responsibility here is for the immigrant communities themselves – where this happens – that have to take. It is those who decide when social control will end in Norway. I therefore challenge again all the immigrant communities in Norway to stand up and say that enough is enough. We are not going to accept that some young people live in Norway today with the kind of social restrictions that we unfortunately hear too many stories about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1375	There have been many good articles on a very important topic. We've heard that it's doing a lot of good on the front, but I think we can all agree that it's hard to say that it does enough. It is also good that we can have a dialogue across party boundaries, where we can seriously and not least openly discuss these issues. It has actually been the case that the Progress Party has fought a long battle alone, where it has been competing to knock down all the proposals or issues that the Progress Party has raised, because it may seem consistent to some. There has been a fear of contact with these problems that are lacking. But let's look at the positive, that there's now a more open dialogue about these issues, and you don't have to be afraid to be labeled racist to the same degree because you point to the most real issues. But it is also such that we cannot decide that social control should end. Nor can we put in enough money to make it go away automatically for that reason. It's about attitude changes, and it's a big challenge to change attitudes when we talk about religious beliefs. The most important thing we can do is start with children. We have to go to school. We need to enable the schools and anyone else who comes into contact with the groups in question to identify when social control takes place. We must commit and enable all employees of the public to notify and respond correctly when they have revealed that social control is taking place. That's probably one of the most important things we can do. As I said, it is good that the Workers' Party is now flagging these themes high. The representative of Bohemia has a lot of knowledge about the themes. Unfortunately, it is long before the rest of the Workers' Party follows Jan Bøhler, because when we come to important themes within this field, the Workers' Party is still very naive and weak. Then I will point to a few things. It is about the fact that the Workers' Party continues to refuse to introduce a mandatory health study for children who have been able to detect, for example: genital mutilation. Where there's sexual mutilation in a family, and it's been done, you can assume that there's more social control inside the picture. There, the Workers' Party must wake up and come after. The Labour Party continues to reject the ban on the use of childcare facilities in primary school. Although there are certainly examples of people who use hijab voluntarily, there is also a symptom of social control. It's an expectation pressure from parents and environments that makes you go with this. It's also how children wouldn't have thought of doing it entirely of their own free will. Many of those children stand out in an unfavorable way at school, they may be kept outside or feel outside, and no children in Norwegian school will. That's why you have to deal with the symptoms, you have to deal with the problems and say that we don't accept the kind of social control that Kinderehijab actually is, and go ahead and say no. The Workers' Party is still far behind. The same applies to the use of thick clothing as a can in the public room. It's a symptom of social control. No one likes it, but it's just the Progress Party that wants to do something about it. If we're to signal that we don't think it's right, as most of the parties have spoken in this Chamber, we have to show it with action and ban the visible social control that we see every day in the big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1390	I would like to thank you for many good articles that deepen the content of what we are talking about today, and which have partly been concrete and have contributed a lot to understanding, for example. the post of the representative Gimse from the Right in respect of the deepening of the sexes. I also think that what Gulati of the Progress Party says about challenging all the immigrant environments to stand up in their own environments is an important part of the matter, while I believe that as a society and as a fellow citizen, we have to take our share of responsibility to the greatest extent. I think we agree here in the debate that we have to do that. There is a possible discrepancy that lies around what the representative Gharahkhani refers to. It is very important to understand how much influence religious communities and especially mosques have on everyone who visits them, in terms of gender segregation and lack of equality, with their own entrances, the arrangement of the Qur'an Schools, and so on, no women in government, etc. Making demands about this in the context of State aid and developing the interaction between these religious communities, mosques, governments and governments is quite important to understand the importance of which, I believe, we will come back to when dealing with proposals here in the Grand Duchy. In the case of other matters that have been raised, reference is made to the action plan that the government has drawn up on social control and the right to decide on their own lives. I think it is very good that there has been such an action plan. Both Holm Lønseth from the Right, Kjønaas Kjos from the Progress Party and Nordlund from the Center Party pointed to that action plan. I hope that with the debate here today, we will be able to go further with the concreteisation of many points here, because if you read the 28 measures, almost everyone starts with words like ‘explored’, ‘assessed’, ‘renewed’, ‘safe’, ‘strength’, ‘enhanced’. I found two points where it says that we're actually going to do something, where it says "established" and "introduce". We have to assume that there are many processes contained in this action plan. It is better that there are processes here than nothing, but I think that in the debate here we have addressed concrete questions, which the Council of State has partly followed up, which means that we can move on. I would ask the Council of State with the overall responsibility for government integration to engage with other departments, for example. Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. When they say that we have good enough rules in Nav so that you can't refuse to take jobs for religious reasons, they have to make sure that it's actually perceived in the floors. The same is true if the Council of State agrees that we need national rules on swimming lessons, that there should not be any split arrangements for it or gym or other things. It must be followed up with other departments. I hope that the Council of State will see that the government has overall responsibility at this point, and that it is not just about what its department can do itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1401	Thank you for a very good debate. I think there's a lot of important points that have been up here. I can assure the representative, Mr Bøhler, that the overall responsibility for integration is mine, and I take that, and that I am working with the other departments to implement what was in the integration message, which is to be followed up, but also, of course, the action plan and that we are moving forward with the proposals that lie there, and not least the proposals that we are now working on after what we have seen that young people have been sent to Somalia against their will. As regards the quota rules in mosques, I would just like to stress that my confidence in the allocation rules is generally very weak. It's also true in mosques. I believe that the changes in the law that have now been sent to the hearing can help to meet what is meant here, namely that if religious communities violate Norwegian law, Norwegian laws can be broken, you can lose state aid. I think that's important. I have also noticed that a brave woman named Hashi, who started a woman's rebellion in Arendal Mosque, said: ‘If there is quota, you can do anything as long as it is in the papers that there are women in the boards.’ It's very easy to get around, so I don't think you can just solve the problems with it. What I am concerned about, however, and with which we work actively, is to look at demands for religious leaders and to discourage people with extreme attitudes from coming to Norway and spreading them through mosques. There we are working on creating a letter of consultation, which I hope will come out in the first six months of next year. The representative, Andersen, said here that this case is ‘kidnapped’ by politicians who have completely different intentions in the debate. I will strongly distance myself from it. This is one of the things I've been most engaged in since I started as a politician in the 1990s. Knowing that young girls, at least when I was young, grew up with social control, being sent out of the country, being coerced, being ashamed of the abdomen, have been some of the things that have driven my political commitment all year long, and still do. We're not going to accept that, and that's why it's important, of course, to change attitudes, but also to have a code that puts the foot down for this. With regard to the representative Gassemyr Staales, I believe that she could not have heard well after. I believe that there have been a lot of actions that have been going on in this discussion – I have framed a whole series of them. So here's a lot to work with. That is what I did, but I would like to thank you for a good debate. Here we will continue to work on the follow-up, and I look forward to cooperating closely on the measures necessary to follow-up this further.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1421	The interpellation debate is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1433	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1664	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1675	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1684	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting in an appropriate way with an assessment of how a more effective tool can ensure the detection of illegal running’. Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1742	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1754	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1768	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1789	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1817	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1829	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-28.ana.ud22e1924	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
