ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e55	Since this is the first meeting of the new year, the President will take the opportunity to wish the representatives, the members of the government and all the others who have their work linked to the Stortinget, a really good new year! On the gallery today we have a guest from Canada, Speaker of the House of Commons, the Honourable Geoff Regan. The Speaker is on an official visit to Norway, and the discussions among us cover issues such as Arctic cooperation, energy and trade. Thank you again for visiting Norway, a visit which improves the already strong relationship between our two parliaments and our two countries. [[Applause from the Chamber]] The representative of Øyvind Korsberg, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Buskerud County: Tone Heimdal Brataas For the Uppland State: Ivar Odnes For the county of Rogaland: Øystein Langholm Hansen An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Knut Storberget as from 10 January and until further notice. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Hedmark County, Lasse Juliusen, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under Knut Storberget's leave of absence, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternate shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For Hedmark County: Thor Lillehovde
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e117	Thor Lillehovde is present and will take the seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 20 December 2016: ‘Changes between the Councils of State and the Secretaries of State In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 20 December 2016 at 9.00 p.m. 1600 is determined: The Councils of State Elisabeth Vik Aspaker, Anders Anundsen and Tord Lien are pardoned. Majority representative Frank Bakke-Jensen is appointed as State Council and takes over the Management Board of matters relating to the coordination of EEA matters and the relationship with the EU in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Bakke-Jensen assumes responsibility for the coordination of Nordic cooperation issues as Norway's representative in the Nordic Council of Ministers. Ground-Jensen is authorised to exercise the specific functions of international law conferred on the Minister of Foreign Affairs, including the signature of documents of international law and the drawing up of signatures, in the absence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The rapporteur, Mr Søviknes, is appointed to the Council of State and takes over from the Ministry of Oil and Energy. State Secretary Per-Willy Trudvang Amundsen is appointed to the Council of State and takes over from the Ministry of Justice and Defence. There are no changes in the division of responsibilities with the Minister for Immigration and Integration. State Secretary André Rajan Kolve, Per-Willy Trudvang Amundsen, Ove André Vanebo, Gjermund Hagesetter and Hanne Caroline Simonsen Iversen are dismissed from office. State Secretary Elsbeth Tronstad is pardoned as Secretary of State for Elisabeth Vik Aspaker and is re-appointed State Secretary for State Council Frank Bakke-Jensen in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. State Secretary Cecilie Brein-Karlsen is pardoned as Secretary of State for the State of Bent Höie and is re-appointed State Secretary for the State Council of Siv Jensen in the Ministry of Finance. The State Secretarys Kjell-Børge Freiberg and Ingvil Smines Tybring-Gjedde are dismissed as Secretary of State Tord Lien and re-appointed State Secretary for State Council Terje Søviknes in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. State Secretary Thor Kleppen Sättem is pardoned as State Secretary to the State Council Anniken Hauglie and is re-appointed State Secretary to the State Council Per-Willy Trudvang Amundsen in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. Political adviser Toril Charlotte Ulleberg Reynolds and political adviser Anette Carnarius Elseth is appointed State Secretary for the Per-Willy Trudvang Amundsen Ministry of Justice and Defence. Group leader Bjørn Laabak is appointed State Secretary for the State Council Jan Tore Sanner in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. Deputy Executive Director Frode Gaasland Hestnes is appointed State Secretary to the State Council Bent Höie in the Ministry of Health and Welfare, with effect from the time the Prime Minister's office decides. Political adviser Morten Bakke is appointed State Secretary to the State Council Anniken Hauglie in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. All the amendments made above shall take effect on 20 December 2016 at the latest. 1800, unless specifically mentioned otherwise.» The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. National Councils shall entail the following changes in the composition of the Grand Duchy: The former members of the government, Elisabeth Vik Aspaker and Anders Anundsen, and former Secretary of State Gjermund Hagesetter have taken the seat of representatives. The first deputy of the Finnmark County, Laila Davidsen, has taken office as a representative at the time the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen is a member of the government. The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e168	On behalf of the major representatives of Karin Andersen, Heidi Greni, Marit Arnstad, Kari Henriksen, Rasmus Hansson, Trine Skei Grande, André N. Skkelstad and myself, I have the honour to make a proposal for court proceedings in the event of withdrawal of citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e173	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e189	Thank you for the opportunity to give a presentation on Afghanistan and the Norwegian effort. Let me first thank you for the great work done by many Norwegian military, police, relief workers and other civilians in Afghanistan over many years. Several have sacrificed their lives in this effort, others are injured. We thank them and their families for the great sacrifices they have made for our security and for a better Afghanistan. The exposure in Afghanistan has now remained for 15 years. It's been one of our heaviest international operations ever. Large sums have been invested, both through military efforts and through assistance. The exposure is still very demanding. We have gained many important experiences and lessons, which we take with us. Not least, the report of the Afghanistan Committee has provided good guidance on how to set up and adapt to new, challenging conflict situations. First, I want to provide an analysis of the situation in Afghanistan, the progress we have made so far, and the challenges we face in the future. Then I would like to comment on some of the advice from the report of the Afghanistan Committee. Finally, I would like to explain the plans for further Norwegian involvement. Let me start by reminding you of the starting point for Norwegian efforts in Afghanistan. Al Qaida's attack on the United States on 11 September 2001 killed approx. 3 000 people. It was an attack on our common values, and it threatened our common security. The rise and attack of Al Qaida on the United States was made possible by the Taliban regime in Afghanistan. Al Qaida's leader, Osama bin Laden, planned the attack from Afghanistan. The United States' right to self-defence under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter was recognised by the United Nations Security Council. Article 5 of the Atlantic Charter was applied for the first time, and Norway was, of course, in solidarity with the United States. There was a broad international consensus on the need to remove the Taliban regime, which operated in tandem with Al Qaida. In solidarity, we set out with our allies and partners so that Afghanistan would not remain a haven for international terrorism. In an early phase, the Taliban was quickly returned. But the land they left behind lay in ruins. After decades of armed conflict, government structures were destroyed in 2001. Much of the country's infrastructure, such as roads and mains, was collapsed. The human health was almost nonexistent. Mother and child mortality was very high. Only about one million children received schooling. The Taliban had forbidden girls to go to school. Many were afraid that the Taliban would quickly withdraw control if basic social structures were not established. In this way, it became early clear that the need for long-term civil action was high – including from a security perspective. It was agreed that broad efforts were needed to develop a stable and democratic Afghanistan. The task has been and is still very demanding. Today's situation is worrying. Despite this, we must not forget that we have made significant progress over the past 15 to 16 years. So let me briefly mention some of them. Despite armed conflict, Afghanistan today has a young, albeit fragile, democracy. The first peaceful and democratic presidential change has taken place. Civil society has evolved. The country has free media asking critical questions both to the authorities and to the opposition. The number of media has increased considerably. In 2016, Afghanistan had nearly 90 private and state-owned television stations and about 180 radio stations. Only in Kabul have many newspapers been established since 2001. Norway has contributed to the development of Afghan civil society and free media. This is also highlighted by the report of the Afghanistan Committee. Today, however, there are worrying reports of an increase in the number of attacks on Afghan journalists and others in civil society, among other things. human rights champions. We continue to support the development of civil society, and we are taking seriously also these negative developments and, of course, are discussing them on an ongoing basis with political leadership in Afghanistan. Women's rights in Afghanistan have been strengthened. Girls have far greater access to education now than before. The Afghanistan Committee carried out a comprehensive review of Norwegian training efforts in the province of Faryab, including: It was found that a significant number of girls – approximately 32,000 were registered in schools built with Norwegian funds. In political life, too, women are now asserting themselves. Women make up 28 pst. by the Members of Parliament. Four female ministers have been appointed by the Assembly Board, and for the first time four female ambassadors – one of them is in Oslo. This is important progress, although the path to full equality is still very long. From 2001 to 2014, the average life expectancy has increased by about half. five years. Health services for women and children, combined with better nutrition, have contributed to the decline in infant mortality. The World Health Organisation’s death statistics per 1000 children under the age of five have dropped from 137 in 2000 to 91 in 2015. The number of births with the help of health professionals has increased from about 12 to 38 pst. Norway has contributed to this by financing the training of midwives for many years. According to the World Bank, the number of children who die in childbirth has declined from about 48 per 1 000 in 2001 to approx. 34 per 1 000 in 2014. Afghanistan's road network has been expanded and major new road and rail projects will provide a significant increase in transport and trade in the country and between the countries of the region. 30 pst. electricity is now available to the population. Over 8 pst. by the population using the Internet, and more than 60 per cent having mobile subscriptions. According to the Ministry of Education's statistics, more than 9 million children are registered at school, 39 of them. There are girls. This is a basic investment for the future, not least for women's future and rights. At the same time, we are concerned that many of the registered children are not going to school. Much remains to be done to improve the quality of education. By the end of 2015, the Afghan economy was almost eight times bigger than it was in 2001. However, it is dependent on international assistance and therefore highly vulnerable. In July 2016, Afghanistan became a full member of the World Trade Organisation – WTO. Afghan defence is better trained and equipped than before. In January 2015, the Afghan authorities themselves assumed responsibility for security throughout Afghanistan. They face demanding tasks and international support will be necessary for many years to come. Despite the success of Afghanistan in a number of fields, the country is still facing very major challenges. The Afghan Assembly government formed after the 2014 elections is based on an agreement between President Ghana and his Chief Executive Officer Abdullah Abdullah Abdullah. Challenges in cooperation between the two have weakened the government's ability to rule the country. Afghanistan was, and still is, one of the poorest countries in the world in 2001. Conflict and corruption limit economic growth. President Ghana has clear plans to combat corruption, but the challenge lies in implementation at all levels of central government. Even with increased tax revenue as a result of reforms in recent years, the World Bank expects Afghanistan to be dependent on international assistance for decades. The Taliban strengthens its military position in many parts of Afghanistan. Afghan security forces are under constant pressure and are experiencing major losses. At the same time, Afghan security forces demonstrate an impressive ability to resist repeated attacks by the Taliban. In 2015, Afghan security forces took back the fifth largest city, Kunduz, which fell to the Taliban for a period of time. In 2016, the Taliban tried several times to take over provincial capitals. Every time, Afghan security forces beat them back. The strengths have considerable support in the population. But even though they have made progress, much remains. A negotiated solution with the Taliban is essential for achieving lasting stability. Without a political solution to the conflict, the very sustainability of the state-building project is at risk, not least because the conflict slows down economic growth and encroaches on about 60 pst. of the income of the State of Afghanistan. It is the Afghans themselves who must create peace. But a peace process in Afghanistan will depend entirely on constructive support from neighbouring countries. Neighbouring countries have strong common interests in regional integration for economic growth. See what ASEAN, for example. has achieved, as opposed to what has been achieved in South Asia. At the same time, there are strategic differences between countries that often characterise their approach to Afghanistan — unfortunately. Several actors in the region continue to support the Taliban and other armed groups’ activities in Afghanistan. For example, the tense relationship between India and Pakistan prevents regional cooperation on Afghanistan. Norway was early out of highlighting the importance of the regional dimension for future stability in Afghanistan. This is also highlighted in the report of the Afghanistan Committee. Several of the neighbouring countries have, inter alia: through Norwegian-supported channels, establishing a cooperation known as ‘Heart of Asia’. The aim is to strengthen the political dialogue on their long-term common interest in peace in Afghanistan and cooperation on, inter alia, counter-terrorism and infrastructure. We will continue to support this cooperation. At the last ministerial meeting in India in December 2016, the neighbouring countries agreed to increase cooperation in the fight against violent extremism and terrorism. They also underlined their support for an Afghan peace process and for the various transport agreements. This is positive. At the same time, relations between several countries have become more sensitive, and how this will affect their cooperation on Afghanistan remains to be seen. Another important geopolitical factor that can give a positive lead to a peace process is China’s commitment to the region through its One Belt, One Road Initiative. The objective is stability and economic development. There are a number of major plans for cross-border energy and infrastructure projects in the region. An example is railway. The first train from China arrived in Afghanistan in September 2016. An important component of China's commitment is cooperation with Pakistan, including: on ‘China-Pakistan Economic Corridor’, which opens up markets on both sides of the border. It is estimated that it is in China’s long-term interest to contribute to Pakistan’s more constructive role towards Afghanistan. Other countries also cooperate with Afghanistan on regional transport routes. The tripartite agreement between Afghanistan, India and Iran last autumn provides access to the Iranian port of Chabahar. It is positive for regional integration and increased trade. Let me comment on some of the key elements of the report of the Afghanistan Committee. First, I would like to thank the chairman of the committee, the members of the committee and the secretariat for their extensive and thorough work. I would also like to thank everyone who contributed experience and views to the sample. The report defines three objectives for Norwegian involvement, firstly to support the United States, a NATO ally who was attacked, secondly to contribute to the fight against terrorism and, thirdly, to contribute to building a stable and democratic Afghan state. The committee believes that Norway has succeeded in its first objective, in supporting the United States, and later in helping to ensure NATO’s relevance. The selection concludes that Norway has been a good ally. It is true that security and alliance policies have been a cornerstone of our Afghanistan exposure. As I pointed out at the outset, it is easy to forget today what shock waves the attack on the United States sent through the world on 11 September 2001. Norway had both a formal commitment under the NATO Pact and a moral obligation to stand with the United States following the 2001 terrorist attack. The Afghanistan report shows that Norway was a small player, but with influence on our allies. In areas such as the diplomacy of peace, the development of civil society and regional initiatives, Norway has had an influence both on the efforts of allies and on Afghan authorities. I think we should take this further. At the same time, the report shows that we still have much to learn about the implementation of our contributions to international operations. The international infrastructure became comprehensive and complex. This also marked national coordination. The report emphasises that civil and military engagement should be well coordinated. It's an assessment I share. Civil-military coordination was particularly demanding. We also experienced this in those areas where we had a special responsibility for stabilisation efforts. I feel that both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have gained useful experience and are much better coordinated today than when we first entered Afghanistan. We have good platforms for dialogue within and with the Stortinget. This we can draw on alternates in future international engagements, such as: in the Middle East. The international community and Afghan governments have, through joint efforts since 2001, prevented Afghanistan from becoming a place of terror again. The United States has not been hit by a terrorist attack planned in Afghanistan since 11 September 2001. The effort deprived Al Qaida of their first temptation and was an important contribution to our everyone's security. However, I am concerned that groups associated with ISIL and Al Qaida have a presence in Afghanistan today. ISIL-related groups have taken responsibility for terrible attacks on civil Shia Muslims in Kabul. Afghan authorities are working with international support to prevent ISIL and Al Qaida from building up. These groups are not today considered a threat to Afghan state formation, but are a threat to terrorism. It is also worrying that ISIL warriors from the Middle East are seeking refuge in Afghanistan. Combating international terrorism is a challenge that the country will need for a long time in the future. The last and at least equally important objective has been to help build a stable and democratic Afghan state. It's perhaps the most demanding task of all. The Afghanistan Committee points out that this is an objective that has not been achieved. I agree. It is still a long time before Afghanistan will become a stable and democratic state. That this would be a demanding task, the then government was aware of. Norway stressed that civil and political engagement had to be seen in a long-term perspective. It requires patience and knowledge to contribute to building well-functioning, democratic state institutions. Furthermore, as the report also points out, this is particularly difficult in a country with a high distance between central, local and local authorities. On the Norwegian side, we made some important experiences, which we want to take with us. It is, in principle, desirable that a conflict be resolved before work on state building is started. At the same time, there will often be situations in which state building cannot wait for a peace process. This was the situation in Afghanistan. There was a dramatic need for institutions that could provide security and vital services to the population. Developments in conflict situations do not follow any particular pattern or direction. Choosing a strategy for the way out of a conflict will always be associated with risk. Norway was early out for a political process that could lead to peace negotiations. There is a broad consensus today that the conflict can hardly find its final solution militarily. We have to do our part to try to influence the parties to start an inclusive Afghan peace process. The road, however, is long. The Afghanistan report is critical of both international and Norwegian assistance for contributing to corruption in Afghanistan. The overall volume of assistance was much higher than weak Afghan institutions could handle. Corruption in Afghanistan poses not only a risk of default of aid money but also of the country’s development and stability itself. Norway was early aware of these challenges, and we have been working systematically with Afghan authorities in recent years to change these developments. Among other things, we support the anti-corruption strategy of the Afghan authorities. It is important that the recipient has the capacity to handle the funds they are to manage and that the consignor follows up. At the same time, the needs, as in Afghanistan, are often alarming. Afghanistan was and is, as I have already mentioned, one of the poorest countries in the world. Volumes are also important when needs are as high as they were and are in Afghanistan. It is then essential that management facilitates the best possible use of funds. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is constantly working to improve the procedures and management of both our partners and our own systems to make assistance more effective. We place great emphasis on the implementation of our assistance to cooperate with organisations that have good control procedures in their projects and programmes. Furthermore, Norwegian assistance to Afghanistan has been subject to several evaluations over the last few years. We have adapted the support along the way, in line with the recommendations that have been made. In this context, it is important to stress that one of the conclusions of the evaluations is that Norwegian assistance to Afghanistan has been appropriately structured. It has been based on the needs of the country. It has been stable and reliable. The choice of sectors has been adapted to Afghanistan’s own priorities and other donors. We therefore have good conditions to succeed even better in the aid effort. But we can't be naive when we run aid in one of the world's most corrupt countries with enormous humanitarian needs. It's not easy. But it is not the children in Afghanistan who are responsible for poor governance. It is also a humanitarian imperative that we help people in need. This is the dilemma we face, and I think we should be very honest about it. I do not think we can see millions of children in Afghanistan, for example. grow up without any job or education opportunities and pay for poor governance. I don't think that's right. We are going to try to do our best within the demanding frameworks in order to achieve this, and it is important that the Grand Duchy is aware of even when large amounts of money may be allocated to Afghanistan, both on the humanitarian side and on the aid side. I believe that Norway should also continue to contribute with special competence. Such niches, where we are currently engaged in Afghanistan, are peace and reconciliation, women's rights and the training of the Afghan anti-terrorist police in Kabul. We take with us the lessons of the report of the Afghanistan Committee in our further work in Afghanistan, in other international operations and in the big news of development policy that the government will present before Easter. Together with recommendations from other evaluations of Norwegian involvement in conflict areas, the sample report provides very useful lessons on how we can and should work in vulnerable countries and regions. Finally, let me explain the government's plans for future efforts in Afghanistan. At the NATO Summit in Warsaw in June and at the donors’ meeting for Afghanistan in Brussels in October, Afghanistan’s partners committed themselves to maintaining civil and military support at a high level by 2020. There is broad agreement that the contributions are necessary to ensure stability and development in Afghanistan. The Government committed itself to continuing civil assistance to Afghanistan by some 700 million. kr in the year out of 2020. Afghanistan will thus remain one of the largest beneficiaries of Norwegian aid. Our assistance will be provided subject to continued efforts by the Afghan authorities to implement reforms, combat corruption and safeguard women's rights. Norwegian aid is concentrated on three major sectors of development, first education, second industrial and rural development, and third, police, equality, human rights and anti-corruption. In 2016, aid for training to Afghanistan increased to about EUR 10 million. 50 million. kr. It shall not be less than 70 million. kr in the current year. The training effort must be seen in the context of Norwegian support for economic and rural development which provides jobs and income and reaches the provinces. As for other focus countries, a political and economic analysis of Afghanistan is being developed in 2017. The analysis, together with the report and other evaluations of the Afghanistan Committee, will form the basis for further work on aid to Afghanistan. Norway is currently the leader of the co-ordination between the Nordic countries and the Netherlands in Afghanistan. In the coming year, we will strengthen the Group's dialogue with the Afghan authorities and our international partners on important priorities. This applies in particular to women and gender equality, anti-corruption and industrial development and job creation. The Government will continue to support Norwegian and international non-governmental organisations in Afghanistan. They are doing a very important job of reaching the population where the authorities do not have the capacity. Voluntary organisations contribute, inter alia: to education, to create jobs and to develop civil society. The report of the Afghanistan Committee underlines the need for good management of assistance. This is a high priority on the part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and we have implemented several measures that will strengthen the administrative competence of the EEAS. The great humanitarian needs in Afghanistan mean that emergency aid is a not insignificant part of the aid – I had it in mind. Humanitarian and long-term support must be seen in the context of a complex and long-term crisis. Responses to humanitarian needs, prevention and long-term development assistance should be made in parallel. Norway supports, inter alia: The efforts made by refugees for children and young people to return to school after they have been expelled from their homes. Building up national capacity is essential for sustainable development. Norwegian support for the Afghan Red Crescent is also a project that provides good results. Norway also supports the International Red Cross Committee (ICRC), which provides life-saving health services in rural areas. In order for the approximately 5 million Afghan refugees in the region to return to Afghanistan, they must be sure that the family will have a living, and children will have schooling. Contributing to the strengthening of equality and work for women, peace and security in Afghan society is an important objective for Norwegian efforts. All our beneficiaries in Afghanistan are required to promote equality in their activities, and we support several concrete measures aimed at women, especially in the field of education. We support the implementation of the Afghan authorities' own action plan on women, peace and security, which provides, among other things, significant opportunities for women. UN Women's Land Programme in Afghanistan. We support work on changes in attitudes among boys and men, including: In cooperation with religious and local leaders — and there is a job to do. Norway has participated in three major conferences on Afghan women’s rights in recent years. When I attended the last women's conference in Kabul in May, I met Afghan women and men who work to improve the position of women in the country. They face strong counterpowers and take a personal risk every day. I'm impressed with these personalities. President, I hope I can continue a little bit!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e334	With the permission of Stortingen, the Minister for Foreign Affairs can continue for a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e339	Thanks – I'll be in for a landing soon. Afghan women have pointed out to me that international support is very important in order not to make progress in a stressed security situation. They also require to be represented in a future peace process with the Taliban. Without women, there will be no peace. And without female participation in the labour market, the country is missing out on important economic growth. Afghanistan is currently in the driver’s seat to deal with its own security. However, they will still need support. At the NATO Summit in Warsaw in July, the importance of a strong partnership between Afghanistan and NATO was underlined. Norway is therefore continuing the aid of 150 million. kr annually to Afghan security forces. Of this, 90 million are planned. In the field of civil aid, which is to strengthen and reward Afghan police and prison services. Norway and our allies entered Afghanistan with high ambitions. Some have been too high, some have been adjusted during the exposure. It is often difficult to predict developments on the ground. This is precisely why we need to be flexible and adapt our efforts in the light of developments. In our efforts to support Afghanistan, we have learned a lot. We have gained experience of taking us further into the work of vulnerable countries and regions. The report of the Afghanistan Committee has thus provided us with a basis for systematising lessons and adapting them to new challenges ahead of us. Nor should we forget that the international community and Afghanistan have succeeded in preventing Afghanistan from becoming a place of international terrorism again. With our help, the country has come a long way in building state institutions, and it provides basic services such as education to parts of the population. Stability in Afghanistan remains important for our own security. The presence of ISIL in the country shows this. That's why it's important that we now continue our engagement in Afghanistan. I have said in the past that lasting peace and stabilisation in Afghanistan require a political solution with the Taliban. Both at the NATO summit and at the 2016 conference for Afghanistan, we again noted that there is a broad – and increasing – international consensus on this, including among key countries in the region. A peace process must be owned and controlled by Afghan. It must be inclusive. This becomes a demanding balance sheet. A solution with the Taliban must not be at the expense of human rights, including women’s rights in general and girls’ rights to education in particular. We're not compromising here. On the Norwegian side, we encourage the parties to enter into real negotiations. We remain ready to assist them, the UN and other international actors as necessary. The Government is continuing the peace diplomacy work mentioned in the report of the Afghanistan Committee. It is my ambition to ensure continued broad support in the UK for Norwegian Afghanistan policy. I hope that this statement, the report of the Afghanistan Committee and the debate in the Grand Duchy, will provide the basis for such a broad consensus.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e368	Let me first thank you for the opportunity to explain about Afghanistan and for the follow-up to the report of the Afghanistan Committee, which deals with our contributions to Operation Enduring Freedom and the ISAF operations in the period 2001–2014. Our efforts in Afghanistan continue through Operation Resolute Support Mission, RSM, and are in an environment as demanding and risky as before. Our soldiers put down a great effort every day. I'm busy talking about our soldiers in Afghanistan today and not in the past. The Minister of Foreign Affairs began with an important point: when we talk about our efforts in Afghanistan, it is important to reflect on the situation we were facing when our first contribution was decided. The United States was attacked on 11 September 2001. NATO Article 5 on collective defence was activated. It is also the only time Article 5 has been activated. The attack was seen as an attack on all the Member States and our common values, and the members had a duty to assist. A broad majority in the Storting felt it was right to stand with our allies in that situation. The intention of entering Afghanistan was initially to ensure that Afghanistan would no longer be a haven for terrorism. Leaving Afghanistan without contributing to reconstruction and stabilisation would be irresponsible. First efforts were military operations to combat terrorism, Al Qaida, then followed a type of stabilisation operation, then capacity building and now mentoring. The different phases made different demands and have given different effects. This resulted in a more complex mission in Afghanistan. In the light of the after-clock, it is easy to see that something could have been done differently, but the choices must also be understood from that context. Not doing anything would also be a choice with consequences. It was right that we got involved in Afghanistan in 2001, and it's right that we still get engaged today. It is also important and right that we take the lessons from Afghanistan further. That's where the Afghanistan Committee makes a very central contribution. As the Foreign Minister explained, the security situation in Afghanistan today is very worrying, and I will not repeat his points. The ongoing operation RSM, where NATO trains, advises and guides Afghan forces, was intended to reduce its activities regionally and to involve Kabul in 2015. It is suspended until further notice, until the general security situation permits it and until the Afghan military forces are fully competent to take over. NATO has decided to continue RSM in 2017. We therefore still have personnel who do the important job of training, advising and supporting Afghan security forces in Kabul, and continue this contribution in 2017. I would like to thank the Afghanistan Committee and the Secretariat for a very good and thorough report, and I would also like to thank all those who have contributed to the work of the sample. I now want to address some of the issues that the committee refers to for the defence sector. It is important for the government to ensure that the personnel who have served, or are serving, for Norway abroad receive the follow-up required. The soldiers in Afghanistan made a big difference in their daily activities. They were and are important to the individual Afghans, they save lives, and they create security. They contributed and continue to contribute to the capacity building of Afghan security forces. And they went out because we, the politicians, decided to leave. Many have been subjected to extreme stresses, both physically and mentally. Most come home with valuable and important operational experience. But someone has also paid a high price. We've lost ten soldiers in Afghanistan. In addition, we have got more that have been damaged. Our soldiers and the families of the soldiers have made and are making an effort we value very highly. The fact that international and national efforts over several years in Afghanistan have not achieved all the objectives set in some areas does not cast shadows on the efforts of our soldiers. In meetings with Afghan authorities, I am often thanked for the efforts of Norwegian soldiers and civilian Northmen in Afghanistan. They are experienced by many Afghans who respond to the needs of the local population and are valued for their high skills. The committee believes that more investment will need to be made in research in the field of science in the future. The committee notes that although there has been clear progress, further emphasis needs to be placed on systematising the regular follow-up. A lot has happened in this area in recent years. The care of participants in international operations is now broadly anchored in seven departments. It's because the needs of the veterans are very different and stretch from the preparation you do before they go out, until the need they may have for follow-up in the civil health system many years after the end of service. As a follow-up to St.meld. No 34 for 2008-2009 ‘From compulsory protection to veteran’, an interministerial action plan for the conservation of veterans involved in international operations was drawn up in 2011. It was replaced in 2014 by a follow-up plan, also across ministries. The follow-up plan will start from 2017 onwards, but the actions will be updated in the course of the work on a new plan. We are working closely with the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the Ministry of Defence and Buffir, and it is especially about research in the field of children and young people and how children, young people and families are affected by having a mother, a father or a close relative in international operations. There are funds in the Ministry of Defence for further research into this. In addition, there is strong Nordic involvement in this field, and in the framework of NORDEFCO, Norway, Sweden and Denmark, in particular, are in the process of carrying out joint research and joint exchange of experience in the field of veterans. The defence has been entrusted with the follow-up of the veterinary work in the letter of implementation from the Ministry. Our main partners in this field are the Veteran organisations. We have exactly the same goal: to make sure that veterans get the recognition, support and care they need. Being a veteran is primarily a description of competence – and it is a designation of honor. The report addresses issues related to civil-military cooperation, including the organisation of work through Provincial Reconstruction Teams, or PRTs. A PRT in Afghanistan consisted of both civilian and military forces, diplomats, advisers and experts on reconstruction and security for an overall approach to the reconstruction of the country. I would like to emphasise that Norwegian military efforts in Afghanistan over the period 2001-2014 were part of a larger alliance with around 50 nations. Many of the decisions were taken in NATO and in the UN. The United States was, to a large extent, the main supplier of premise. Our national decisions were not made in isolation. Although at the summit we had a contribution of over 800 soldiers at the same time in Afghanistan, Norway had a relatively small military contribution to a large coalition. The committee stressed that Norway’s action room was limited, as a relatively small donor and herd contributor. This is a point to highlight when decision-makers are criticized for their low influence over. The PRT model was chosen to support the overall approach of the NATO operation, with close coordination of political, civil and military instruments. However, there was a complete lack in the establishment and operation of the 26 PRTs, which had a very different focus and device. With the experience gained, it is unlikely that we will see an identical model attempted in any future international effort of the same scale as Afghanistan. The committee emphasises that the contributions of all Norwegian public authorities, military and civil, should be coordinated and integrated. I agree. The clear distinction Norway made between civil and military efforts also differed to a large extent from the approach of our closest allies and contributed to the loss of ground synergies. The effort to meet the challenges in Afghanistan called for better coordinated civil-military action. This would probably also make cooperation with our allies even more effective. Even without a PRT model, civil and military contributors will meet in international efforts and there will be a need for coordination and cooperation. Flexibility is also needed for the safety sector as part of its efforts to limit short-term low-cost projects. Training and training of a common military and civil nature before departure is necessary in order to create a common understanding of the situation, exchange experience and establish personal contacts. The Afghanistan period has led to better processes between the U.D. and the Ministry of Defence, with frequent coordination meetings at political level and at the level of office. However, although coordination at departmental level, there will always be the need for ground control. The committee proposes the establishment of a high-level coordination unit responsible for developing strategies and action plans. I am of the opinion that there is no need for new structures, since the U.D. and the Ministry of Defence have further developed and strengthened good practices for sharing information and coordination. I agree with the sample that any operation should optimally have an exit strategy. In international operations, mandates and objectives are established at transnational level. The exit strategy for Afghanistan has been formulated but has proved difficult to implement in line with the desired timetable. The situation on the ground is changing and the plans need to be amended to take this into account. The Norwegian Special Forces and the Intelligence Service are referred to in the report as the two success stories from the reporting period, and I share the sample’s assessment. The efforts of the Special Forces and the Intelligence Service, despite relatively small national environments, had an impact on all three objectives of Norway’s engagement: ensuring Norway’s security policy relationship with the United States and NATO, contributing to the fight against terrorism and contributing to state-building in Afghanistan. In particular, the contribution of the special forces to the building of Afghan capacity should be highlighted. They built up and continued to support one of the Afghan Police National Emergency Response Forces: Crisis Response Unit 222. In particular, in such sensitive activities as special operations and intelligence, it takes several years to build trust and ability to interact. As the sample writes, during our almost 15-year-old engagement in Afghanistan, we have gained a better and closer relationship with a number of allies, especially the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany and Latvia. Our special forces have in particular established their good relationship with American and British special forces. Some of this close cooperation and knowledge of each other's culture we reap the fruits through our new mission in the fight against ISIL. Without operating with US and British special forces in Afghanistan over the last 14 to 15 years, this would hardly have been possible. The report highlights the Intelligence Service as a very successful contributor to achieving the overall objective of supporting the United States and contributing to NATO’s relevance. I agree with the conclusion that the involvement in Afghanistan in this area has had long-term consequences. Their experience has helped to strengthen intelligence cooperation in NATO and bilateral cooperation with allies. The participation of the intelligence service has also helped to further develop cooperation with other countries’ services and with the U.D. Through operations in Afghanistan, our forces have gained invaluable operational experience, which could not have been achieved only by training and practice at home. It is important that the defence, in line with the recommendation of the sample, institutionalises its learning experience. The work to achieve this is among other things: formalised by the letter of implementation of the Defence for the next period. An example of important lessons from the Afghanistan period was the change in the composition of the PRTs. Initially, these were set up by staff from various departments. Afterwards, you went to send out whole, together with interest. This resulted in a broader competence in defence, which also strengthened the overall operational capability. Organisational changes have been introduced in defence to improve the learning of experience, including: Centers for Military Experience in 2015 were transferred from the Defence College to the Defence Operational Headquarters, FOH. This is done because FOH is central to experience management from operational activities because operations are planned, managed and coordinated from there. The defence itself obviously also sees the need for more effective experience learning and continuously improves its procedures. The committee has commented that international efforts should not compromise preparedness at home and that the defence must seek to limit the size of the support structure in outreach operations. Strengthening the defence’s ability to perform its primary mission and preparedness at home has been the basis for the development of the Long-term Defence Plan, adopted in November. National emergency plans define domestic needs. The head of the Defence Operational Headquarters creates operational needs for the forces. The Chief of Defence assesses the preparedness consequences of drawing strength contributions from domestic structures, and the Government assesses the impact overall before deciding whether a foreign contribution is made. The planning process for strengthening contributions to international operations also assesses whether possible contributions to international operations will have an impact on the defence’s ability to maintain preparedness for police support. With regard to the observation of the sample to seek to limit the size of the support structure outside operations, I would like to stress that it is continuously working to improve the logistics and support structure of the defence. The aid structure in Norway is being exploited without building structures alongside foreign strengths. In addition, the defence will always strive to establish multi-national solutions to reduce the support structure. It is always a crucial assessment theme for questions of contributions in international operations to assess whether we have the capacity to support contributions both at home and abroad. The committee writes that the Ministry of Defence and the leadership of the Defence Department must play an active role in shaping tasks to be carried out by Norwegian military commanders in international operations. I would like to point out that we have a planning structure that takes care of the entire spectrum from being made aware of the need for contributions, through input from the Ministry of Defence and the head of defence, until an operational plan has been drawn up. In this work, the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Staff are actively contributing to the task formulation. It is important to stress that Norway also always has a head of strength, a representative, who also has a so-called ‘red card’ function, which can thus help to ensure that concrete missions do not take place with Norwegian participation, if necessary. I appreciate the fact that the Afghanistan Committee highlights the work of the Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. Entrepreneurship in Afghanistan places a serious focus on the importance of the resolution and subsequent related resolutions. It is essential to strengthen international efforts to achieve better results in this field. In many of today's conflicts, women's security and rights are threatened, sexualized violence is widespread, and women are driven away. At the same time, we see that women's participation in peace and stabilisation processes is a necessary prerequisite for lasting and sustainable solutions. It was with this that the government backs the February 2015 action plan for women, peace and security for the period 2015-2018, and it is also based on previous action plans. The action plan is our tool to implement the ambitions of the Security Council resolutions. It provides the basis for the ministry's joint effort and provides clear direction and objectives for its work. We want to build skills and keep up the pressure to ensure that the objectives of the resolutions are met. We do this in cooperation with the UN, NATO and regional and national actors and in close dialogue with civil society. The defence is therefore required to implement and use a ‘gender’ perspective in the planning, exercise, implementation and evaluation of all types of operations. We have a qualitatively good professional environment of 'gender' professional expertise in operations to be continued and strengthened. The defence reports annually on how the ‘gender’ perspective is maintained in the context of operations and on the status of mandates imposed in the government’s action plan in the field. Our efforts in Afghanistan took place until 2014 through two operations: Operation Renewing Freedom, OEF, and International Security Assistance Force, ISAF. The OEF was based on collective self-defence following the attacks in the United States on 11 September 2001. ISAF had a basis for international law in resolutions of the UN Security Council and an invitation from the Afghan authorities. The committee does not particularly address the implications of international law for the operations and is not considered to be controversial. However, I note that the sample is concerned about how the conflict should be classified at some times. Whether a situation is considered to be an international or non-international internal armed conflict or whether the situation is at all considered to be an armed conflict has an impact on the specific rules of international law applicable. The committee sees it, among other things. as an unfortunate fact that the Norwegian authorities did not clarify their views on the classification of the situation during the ISAF participation before 2005/2006. I would like to make it clear that, on the Norwegian side, it has always been central to the fact that no legal space was operated on in Afghanistan at any time, and that in all situations, legal rules and important principles of law are involved, whether we are talking about international law or human rights and other legal principles. These are the principles intended to protect the civilian population, the deprived and other vulnerable groups. Nor does the selection claim that Norway has breached these legal rules or principles in some of the phases. When the Norwegian authorities in 2006 went from classifying the ISAF participation as below the threshold for armed conflict to being a party to a non-international armed conflict in ISAF, they also made it clear that the change in classification did not involve extended powers for the use of forces. The UN mandate, the NATO operational plan and the applicable exposure rules continued to set a framework for the use of power. Furthermore, the legal protection of the soldiers in the event of a replay of power was regulated in the status agreement, regardless of classification. Consequently, the importance of non-exterior and ongoing classification of the situation by the Norwegian authorities should not be over-weighted. The report mentions some specific issues related to international law, and I would like to make a few comments on the report on prisoners, combat interpreters and the use of the Geneva Cross. The selection has provided a clear and good representation of the Norwegian authorities’ handling of matters related to detention in Afghanistan. In 2013 a manual of the international law of the war for the Defence was developed, in cooperation with Norway's Red Cross. The manual is written on behalf of the Ministry of Defence and published by the Chief of Defence, and is to be regarded as a standing order to the Defence. It intends to make legislation and national interpretations easily available to those who use the rules of the defence, both as practical guidance in teaching and in planning and conducting operations. The manual has its own chapter on detainees, such as: set out the legal basis for the detention, depending on the type of conflict and category of persons, treatment and facilities requirements, procedures for testing the legal basis for the detention, transfer and termination. A checklist has also been drawn up which is used in planning for the dispatch of Norwegian strength contributions to operations, training and exercises abroad, for example. ensuring that key legal aspects are adequately addressed. International law aspects are included in the checklist, including those that need to be taken into account in the application of potential power and the establishment of exposure rules. The Ministry of Defence, in consultation with the Defence Department, has stressed the need to provide adequate directives to ensure that Norwegian forces act in accordance with the international law of the war and the human rights obligations of Norway as well as political restrictions that may be imposed, including for potential detentions. Otherwise, the Minister of Defence shall at all times determine the rules of engagement of each operation by Norwegian forces. The use of local civil servants for conflicting tasks shall not occur. In order to avoid any unfair use in the future, the Ministry of Defence has developed guidelines on the use of local staff in international operations, and these guidelines were implemented in Defense in 2015. The guidelines cover, inter alia: provision for the defence primarily to seek to meet the needs of its own human resources. If the own resources do not meet the needs, the Defence shall endeavour to contract services from firms or service providers locally. The defence shall carry out assessments of the safety of local staff both during and after their employment. The contracts shall specify the responsibility of the defence, even after the termination of the employment relationship. It shall be clarified that the service is non-controversial and shall be performed without uniformation and without arms. Local staff shall be used as far as possible in such a way that they are not perceived as members of Norwegian armed forces. The Red Cross marking on a sanitary vehicle in Afghanistan was decided, on the basis of the Geneva Conventions, to remove a period from 2011. The committee warns against letting this become a practice, as in the longer term it undermines sanitary protection in the international law of war. I understand the reasons for the selection, but I stress that the decision was based on the international law of the war, and that all the procedures for this were followed. The Ministry of Defence and Defence consider this to be an exception to the general rule and that such a decision must be the subject of a specific assessment on a case-by-case basis. Finally, I would like to say something about the comments made by the committee on personnel issues, including training in local conditions and out-of-office time. The committee describes the need for personnel to be trained in social knowledge of the conflict areas they travel to. This is an area where the Ministry of Defence has a high priority. Departments that are sent out usually undergo a three to six months setup period, where they include: is given education in social and cultural knowledge in the field of action. The forthcoming education reform in Defence and the improvement of the model of experience learning will strengthen the systematic approach in this field. The committee addresses challenges related to the short-term absence of key staff. This is a balance between different important considerations. According to the International Operations Ordinance § 17, staff in international operations are normally ordered for a period of six months, except in less demanding operations and staffing and observation services, where the maximum period can be set to the continuous service of 12 months. The vast majority of close allies also operate with six-month deployment periods. The challenge is, of course, – and this is also a clear indication of the sample – that building relationships and trust takes time. This is also something that Afghan soldiers have talked to me about when I've been visiting, and it's of course so that as soon as this trust and this cooperation is established, the staff will rotate out, and new people come in. Therefore, it is important that the defence also focuses, as they have done for a long time, on measures that help to remedy it. At the same time, of course, it is a significant and weighty consideration that our soldiers should not have too long consecutive deployment periods out, and it is related to both the service they perform for daily, and, of course, the family situation and the fact that too much overtime service is also not good. The defence has demonstrated, through its involvement in Afghanistan, good ability to solve military missions. The missions have shown that Norway has very competent soldiers, who are well trained and well qualified for this type of operation. For 2017, the Norwegian main contribution remains to support Afghan Special Police, CRU, Kabul and to support the Afghan Special Police Directorate. The Norwegian contribution has helped Afghans to prevent increased levels of violence and destabilisation in Kabul and in recent times elsewhere in the country. CRU is a very important national strategic resource that has been used to address several major and complex attacks against Afghan and western targets in Kabul and its surroundings. The CRU is also important in protecting the civil international presence in Afghanistan, including the embassies, and has carried out successful actions against hostages, inter alia. by the U.S. University and the Spanish Embassy in Kabul. But more important than the operations that reach the public are the operations that prevent attacks, by identifying and arresting perpetrators before they are dealt with. The development of Afghan security forces is considered by NATO to be one of the success stories of the efforts in Afghanistan. In addition to the special forces, we have issued a few staff officers to the command structure of the NATO operation. We support the Afghan National Army Trust Fund with $60 million. kr annually, provisionally until 2020. In the years between 2007 and 2016, Norway has paid approx. 556 million. kr to this fund. Since the start of operations in Afghanistan, Norway has contributed substantially with requested military capabilities. We have maintained and further developed good relations and cooperation with our allies. As I have explained, over a long time, we have followed up the situation of the Afghanistan Committee in its report, as part of the formalised experience learning process. Work is ongoing on improving this. Afghan authorities will need assistance and support for many years to come. The government follows the situation closely and will consider extending Norwegian contributions beyond what has been planned to date. In that case, it will happen in close dialogue with NATO and our close allies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e508	In conclusion, I would like to say that an important and essential lesson from the mission we have had and have in Afghanistan is to have realistic expectations and realistic goals. Recognizing complexity, recognizing that things take time, and that the path is rarely directed, is a crucial experience. Government involvement in the fight against international terrorism and ISIL has also been a governing factor, by being clear about the dilemmas and challenges facing Norway and other participating countries in such an operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e511	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence be sent to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. – No objection has been raised against this, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e525	There is a unanimous position in this matter, but the admission of new members of NATO should not be overlooked in silence here in the Chamber. To that, the obligations we assume are too big. At the NATO ministerial meeting on 2 December 2015, Montenegro was invited to start negotiations on membership of NATO. After the negotiations were concluded, the country's government has confirmed its desire to join the alliance. On 19 May last year the Protocol on the accession of Montenegro was signed. There is broad consensus among NATO countries that the expansion of the alliance is a continuous process. As seen, this extension is in line with the plan adopted at the Washington Summit in 1999, with the programme for advice, assistance and practical support to countries wishing to join, which allows the alliance to assess the qualifications of the candidate country. Montenegro has participated in this since 2009. Montenegro’s membership is considered to be important for security and stability in the Balkans and for the Euro-Atlantic area as a whole. It will contribute to the achievement of the objective of a free and independent Europe that is united in meeting common security challenges. Montenegro, as a candidate country, has carried out extensive reforms and demonstrated an obligation to participate in the common security and value base of allies, and has committed itself to continuing its political, military and economic reforms as a Member State. In view of this, the Committee recommends that the Storting consent to the approval of the Protocol on Montenegro's accession to NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e540	I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a quick and precise examination of this matter. There is also reason to thank the government for the rapid treatment of the admission of Montenegro as a full member of NATO, since all 28 Member States must agree to the inclusion of new members in the organisation. Then, of course, it is important for the candidate countries to get clarifications soon. Montenegro has also been a partner country for many years. It is widely agreed, as the rapporteur also pointed out, that the enlargement of NATO is an ongoing, continuous process open to all countries in Europe with the ability and willingness to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Treaty. Montenegro has implemented comprehensive reforms and announced obligations to contribute to the common security and value base of allies. Montenegro is an important country in the Balkans, and its membership in NATO will contribute to achieving the objective of a democratic and stable Europe that stands together to meet new security challenges. It is gratifying that there is a unanimous committee behind this vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e549	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 3 to 5 are dealt with as a whole – and it is considered to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e583	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e594	Let me first congratulate the new European Minister for Employment and stress that he is also the Council of State for Nordic cooperation. Increasingly, the world looks towards the North. Europe is looking towards the Nordic countries. They look at the Nordic welfare states, the Nordic way of organizing society. While we have had various kinds of crises in several countries south of Europe, the Nordic model has stood quite firm. Of course there are migration challenges here too. We also experience refugee crises – or have seen and seen the refugee crisis. We are part of the globalized world, and we must take our share of responsibility for the development of our continent. We also feel the uncertainty at the beginning of 2017. We are shaken by acts of terror. A week ago, I wrote in the condolence protocol in the Turkish embassy after the terror in Istanbul. The kings of ISIL and the war in Syria are also quite close to our doorstep. However, the Nordic countries have a foundation that ensures us against the worst storms. It's the values our societies are based on, which are getting more and more attention. In February 2013, the first joint Nordic cultural initiative outside the North was organized in Washington, the exhibition Nordic Cool. Of course, the Americans were interested in Nordic food and in Nordic art and culture, but it was primarily the Nordic social model that aroused interest. ‘A close and well-functioning Nordic cooperation is important for Norway and a high priority of the Government’, the government has established initially in today’s Nordic cooperation communication. And Nordic cooperation has become more dynamic, with great breadth and depth – and upliftment, not least. We are the world's densest integrated societies and economies, and we represent 25 million people – really a power force. The Committee points out that Nordic cooperation is important for employment and value creation and covers most sectors of society. The Committee also agrees that understanding the Nordic region as part of Europe and the world is becoming increasingly important. Interestingly, the Finnish Presidency focused on increasing Norwegian cooperation on European policy and foreign policy. This also comes in the wake of an ever closer Nordic defence cooperation. It is cooperation that takes place in spite of the fact that it is based on different security policy anchorages. From 2013, the Nordic Council was given a stronger parliamentary influence on the defence cooperation NORDEFCO, where Denmark held the Presidency in 2016. It concerns cooperation on everything from capacity and capacity to training and, as we heard during the Minister of Defence's presentation a few minutes ago, cooperation in international operations, among others. Afghanistan and also now on the follow-up of the veterans from there. It is also a cooperation with a still high potential. The same can also be said of Nordic cooperation on social security based on the so-called Haga declarations. A great deal of cooperation in the Nordic region is about removing frontier barriers through cooperation and harmonisation. In recent decades, this work has become part of the work also in the EU/EEA area, i.e. the EU internal market. Because when implementing EU directives in Nordic countries with different links to the EU, it is necessary to consider whether new border barriers can be created in the Nordic region – or vice versa: is it such that EU directives can remove border barriers between Nordic countries, as they remove border barriers in Europe? Border barriers work also makes Nordic cooperation, the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers relevant to everyday life. When I was elected president of the Nordic Council in the autumn of 2012, I was immediately contacted by people who struggled with frontier barriers – border barriers that faded like both stupid and meaningless, if it is allowed to use those expressions. It was customs clearance for those who commute across the border every day – believe it or not. It was the farmer who, when he was going to help the neighbor on the other side of the border in the haystacks, had to out with quite large sums in order to be able to drive his own tractor a few meters above the border. There was a customs duty on food when you went to the “martnan” in the border area on the other side of the border to sell knitted hogs. There were various mortgage schemes – and there are different mortgage schemes – for bottles and cans. I don't know how many years you've tried to do anything about it, without any results. And social security problems for her who had lived in Denmark for a few years, not to mention the tax case of the Norwegian pensioners in Sweden. We're going to take that kind of enquiry seriously, because it's important that, when we're working with Nordic cooperation, we also see it as a tool to be able to assist just the usual man and woman in such matters. The report of the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council shows that work on removing frontier barriers and ensuring that new ones do not occur remains a high priority area and a high priority task for the Nordic Council of Parliament. The aim of the Council of Ministers is to remove five to ten border barriers per year, focusing on the labour, social and educational fields. An area that should also be mentioned is Nordic energy cooperation based on an action plan for 2014-2017. Priority will be given, inter alia, to: Nordic electricity market, renewable energy, energy research and Nordic cooperation in international forums. Norway takes over the Presidency of the Council of Ministers in 2017, where the Nordic countries in transition are the main pillars, and I wish the Council of State good luck with that work as well. I record that the government believes we have a lot to do with an even closer cooperation with our Nordic neighbours, among others. on climate, green transition and competitiveness. The Nordic Council – the Parliamentary Assembly – has also had a comprehensive reform process in recent years. The Council has also worked for a long time to see if stronger anchoring of the work of national parliaments is possible. It's not that simple, and we also know that here in the Storting. Otherwise, I expect representatives of the Nordic Council delegation to say more about the work in their posts. Finally, I insist on saying that Nordic cooperation is actually more dynamic than for a long time, and parliamentary cooperation in the Nordic Council is also a crucial factor in the development of Nordic political cooperation, and also in the development of cooperation between governments. For parliamentarians are important and necessary drivers of decisions in the individual Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e633	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur for a good job and also for a good post in the Chamber. The Norwegian Government attaches high priority to Norwegian cooperation. The Nordic countries are our closest friends and key partners. We share the same basic challenges, whether in terms of competitiveness, green growth, low-carbon transition, security, migration or integration. Common challenges, geographical proximity, common history, traditions, languages, culture and values provide a solid basis for cooperation. But it is absolutely central that Nordic cooperation actually creates added value for the inhabitants of Norway and the Nordic countries. In order to ensure legitimacy for cooperation, it must be effective and deliver results. Therefore, it is good that the reform work continues with the New Nordic 2.0. The work includes, inter alia: adhoc forms of cooperation, a more flexible budget and a closer interaction between formal and informal cooperation. Nordic cooperation should become more visible, more concrete and more topical. The structures of cooperation should be better exploited. We in the Nordic region have clear national and regional interests. The Nordic region is a priority region for well-being and quality of life, with high employment, trust in the labour market and well-developed welfare countries, which have proved to be robust in the face of globalisation. This good starting point should be used to promote green change and competitiveness, in interactions between authorities, knowledge institutions and businesses in the Nordic region. In order to strengthen future Nordic competitiveness, it is important to be at the forefront of the digitisation of the economy. A goal of cooperation on the development of a well-functioning digital single market is good and the Nordic countries are implementing new legislation in the most harmonised way possible. The Nordic region should continue to be an example for other regions of Europe, for the reduction of border barriers. The development of the sharing economy and circular economy are also areas where the Nordic region has good prospects for engaging. The Nordics as a knowledge economy serve to cooperate to trigger shared creativity and to be an interesting partner for leading knowledge environments in Europe and globally. Norway has thus taken over the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2017 – it is exciting. The programme for the Norwegian Nordic Presidency follows three main lines: The Nordics in transition, the Nordics in Europe and the Nordics in the world. The Norwegian Presidency wants to develop common competitiveness and ensure a central place for the Nordic countries in the global green shift. In addition, Norway will prioritise integration cooperation in an area where all Nordic countries face significant challenges. This year, a Nordic integration programme will be launched, in which countries will develop and exchange knowledge and practices. Refugees shall be self-sufficient and able to establish themselves in working and social life as soon as possible. This is central to the success of integration. It is the hope of this representative that the programme will help the Nordic countries to develop a more targeted and effective policy for the inclusion of refugees and immigrants. In addition, I believe that we need a clear Nordic voice in European cooperation and in the regulatory development of the internal market serving both Norway, the Nordic countries and Europe. The Nordic countries also have the prerequisites for, interest and responsibility to influence developments where we can, in order to meet the UN’s 17 sustainability goals – where our Prime Minister, Erna Solberg, has been appointed by the Secretary-General of the United Nations to be a driver. Cooperation between the Nordic countries and North-West Russia has been significantly stepped down following the decision of the Ministry of Justice of Russia in January 2015 to mark the Nordic Council of Ministers’ office in Russia as foreign agents. The activities of the Council of Ministers in St. Petersburg are still minimal. In 2016, a new open programme for Nordic-Russian project cooperation was launched. This programme supports cooperation in all areas of mutual Nordic-Russian interest, between local and regional authorities, educational institutions, public organisations, business organisations and think tanks – and I could say between people. The warm and lively parliamentary cooperation in the Nordic region is important. The Nordic Council is an important meeting place for exchange of experience, dialogue and policy-making, and Norwegian participation in the Nordic Council is a valuable opportunity to further develop and strengthen cooperation between the Nordic countries. There will be other representatives from the Right after me who will comment on the setting in case No. 5, the annual report of the Stortinget Delegation for Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e667	The Progress Party believes that close and good Nordic cooperation is important for Norway. This is also a high priority of the government. Closer cooperation with our neighbouring countries will enable us to better meet the challenges of a rapidly changing world. Developments in Russia, refugee flows and terrorism due to conflicts in the Middle East and North Africa, as well as the testing of European cooperation, are some of the conditions that Norway needs to deal with. There's a lot we can't do alone. Therefore, we should strengthen cooperation on important cross-border issues with the Nordic countries. These are our natural allies, with which we share language, culture, values and interests. The Finnish Presidency in 2016 focused on more Nordic cooperation on European policy and foreign policy. The government continues this effort under the Norwegian Presidency in 2017 by working for increased Nordic visibility in the European political arena and in Brussels and more use of joint Nordic input in policy areas where we have common interests. The Nordic countries are already cooperating well in the international arena. The Nordic countries cooperate closely with the United Nations, including the United Nations. to ensure representation in Nordic countries in different UN bodies. In relations with the EU, contact with the Nordic countries is particularly important when Norwegian interests are to be safeguarded in EU policy and regulatory development. The Nordic Member States also provide us with information on the discussions in the EU. In return, the other Nordic EU countries receive information from Norway’s participation in groups in which only the EU Commission participates, as in the WTO. As a result of a change in the security situation in the east, we see that Sweden and Finland are increasing cooperation with NATO in the Baltic Sea region. Nordic defence cooperation NORDEFCO is the result of these two countries becoming more active in the security policy area. The Nordic countries have a very similar view of the current situation in the Baltic Sea region and have increased the dialogue on defence planning and crisis management. We would stress that this is not a substitute for NATO cooperation, but a supplement. Cooperation between the Nordic countries must provide good and concrete responses to current challenges facing the Nordic population in everyday life. Norway will have a great deal to do with more regional cooperation in environmental, competitiveness and demographic change challenges, such as integration. It's e.g. establish a Nordic programme for the exchange of experience and the development of new knowledge in integration policy, which will be implemented in the period 2016-2018. The Progress Party will in particular highlight the work of the Border Barrier Council on the prevention and removal of frontier barriers and other barriers to growth. Norwegian and Swedish authorities work, for example: together on a solution, so that Swedish driving rights for snowmobiles are also valid in Norway. The ambitions are to remove from five to ten border barriers per year, in particular in the field of labour, social and education.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e684	Nordic cooperation has long traditions, although the relationship with our neighbouring countries has varied if we go far enough back in time. But we now have good cooperation and a good neighbourhood and can discuss issues that are specific to the Nordic countries, given that we also have a common social model, a social model with a welfare state that is challenged by changes in the world around us, by rising migratory flows and by labour immigration. It is also important that we learn from each other. Last week, one in Sweden presented 75 points for district development, or ‘development of sparsely populated’, which it is called in Sweden. It may be symptomatic that when one in Sweden now wants to build up their districts, today’s government is building down the Norwegian districts. It is also interesting to read the 75 points and see that most of them are a blueprint of Norwegian district policy as it has worked from the 1970s until the last few years, where one sees that the structures are being pulled down one by one. Nordic cooperation in relation to the EU is important. Although there is a number here in the Storting that integrates us more closely and more closely into EU cooperation, it is still the case that we are not members. Therefore, the road to the inner mercenaries often goes through our good neighbours, which are member countries. In the United Nations, we are joint members, and we see that Finland and Sweden are approaching discussions on NATO membership because the world is changing again and one sees that being a member of NATO at least gives leadership and a safer society. In the case of border cooperation, identity checks were introduced over Øresund in 2015. Since 1954 we have had a common Nordic passport freedom. Austria, Germany, Denmark, Sweden and Norway have had time-limited access to border controls by the European Commission. This is a required theme. It is also a demanding theme in the Nordic Council, and it was the last time in November 2016 that a seminar was held at the Swedish Embassy in Copenhagen, where the Nordic Council was the co-organizer. Both Sweden and Denmark said that it was not likely that the border control between Denmark and Sweden would be lifted quickly. There is also no indication that a wish to establish a border control along the Nordic borders to restore passport freedom in the Nordic region. It might be interesting to the right of the Council of States to take any initiative to ensure that we could have a common Nordic passport freedom, but with a common border control at the external borders of the Nordic region. I believe that close cooperation in the Nordic region will also be important in the future. We have a lot of the common challenges and a lot of the common challenges to our countries, and we see that NORDEFCO, which is the common cooperation one has on defence, is what is most active right now – again because the world has been more insecure and one sees that sticking together and working together to solve the common challenges gives us strength. The centre party is positive that we in the Nordic region are further developing the cooperation we have, and get it vitally also in other areas, where one may have lacked some vitality in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e697	As the Prime Minister said in his New Year's speech: The history of Norway shows that both our prosperity and our security are best created together with others. And I'd like to add: especially with our Nordic neighbouring country. In a world marked by rapid changes and greater unforeseeableness, Nordic cooperation is more relevant than ever. At times of alarm, Nordic cooperation creates stability for many other countries. The breadth and depth of Nordic cooperation is duly documented in the communication being debated here today. On 1 January Norway took over the presidency of the Nordic government cooperation after Finland. Our Presidency in 2017 has three main lines. The first major track is the Nordics in transition. The Nordic region is a region of progress that has proved robust in the face of globalisation. This good starting point should be used to promote green transition and increased competitiveness in interaction between authorities, knowledge institutions and businesses in the Nordic region. Cooperation and sharing of knowledge is becoming an increasingly important tool to increase our competitiveness. To strengthen this, we must continue to be at the forefront of the digitisation of the economy. Close Nordic cooperation contributes to this. In spring 2017, we invite you to a Nordic-Baltic Ministerial Conference on Digitalisation. Here we focus on digital integration and regional digital entrepreneurship. We are also going to launch a programme for Nordic innovation and industrial policy to set more clear targets for Nordic competitiveness. In order to promote green migration in the Nordic region, we need to carry out a strategic review of the climate and environment sectors. In the field of energy, the Ollila report shall be presented and a new work programme shall be drawn up in the energy sector. Our leadership projects are supposed to support the work. The Green Conversion and Competitiveness Project in Nordic urban regions is an important example. Our position in the Presidency is also aimed at following up Finland's commitment to integration cooperation. The Nordic countries have many common challenges in integrating refugees. The Nordic welfare model depends on high levels of labour participation. We focus on the integration of refugees into working life under our presidency. Successful integration is an economic, political and social necessity. The tasks are big, but the Nordics are in a special position in terms of the possibilities for success in this field. The second main track is the Nordic region in Europe. The internal market is fundamental to Nordic cooperation, to our economies and to our well-being. The Nordic tradition, where committed cooperation contributes to well-being and stability, continues to inspire European integration. Today, the EU is on its way in a break with a Member State. At the same time, there is a need for a strong and competitive European economy and more European leadership in the international arena. Then it is important that the Nordics know their visitation time. The EU needs a strong and clear Nordic region, as much as the Nordic countries need a strong EU. Under our presidency, we will work to strengthen Nordic cooperation on European policy. We will contribute to greater Nordic visibility in Europe. We want more use of joint Nordic input in areas of common interest. Thematically, we will focus on three areas: climate and environment, energy and digitisation. A fundamental prerequisite is that cooperation creates added value for all of us. The North of Europe will also be the subject of welcoming my Nordic colleagues here to Oslo on 9 February, for the first meeting of Nordic cooperation ministers under our presidency. The last major feature of our presidency is the Nordics in the world. It is about further developing the strategic Nordic partnership in foreign policy. The Nordic countries have been good at strategic cooperation for many, many years. We have different links with different international organisations, NATO, the European Union, and we have a lot of experience working together in the United Nations. Under the arrow ‘North of the world’ we will seek further to sharpen this cooperation. Our starting point is a common set of values, that we have a long common history, and that's the advantage we want to take in promoting the Nordics in the world. In our Nordic Presidency in 2017, we will strive for topicality and relevance in our cooperation. We will work for results and added value for the inhabitants. This is how we will ensure the continued trust and legitimacy of Nordic cooperation in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e718	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e723	Let me start by taking the opportunity to wish the Council of State a good new year and congratulate you on new tasks. My question is linked to the European Parliament, which is currently dealing with what is called a communication from the European Commission related to Arctic strategies. It was presented by the Commission in May and is now being examined by the European Parliament. There is a quite circumstantial discussion involving several committees. It is a comprehensive strategy. I want to challenge the Council of States what he thinks about the direction the EU is now taking in the Arctic, which is also an important part of Nordic cooperation, and not least an important part of how the Nordics can stand together in an increasingly globalised world. The question is then: what does the Council of State think about the strategy that the European Parliament is now considering? Is the EU on the right track, or is it going in the wrong direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e732	Thank you for your congratulations! I'll be careful to say if it's the wrong road or the right road. For many years, the Nordic countries have focused on the Arctic. Each country has its Arctic strategy. Cooperation in the Nordic region has also highlighted this work earlier, and it will be an important part of future work. In short: I think that when you meet, for example. The European Union, in order to promote its interests, is well-informed to promote our common views and common values. We are the countries that have most of the population in the north, and I believe the Arctic strategy to which the EU will add, without my knowledge, will focus on the northern part of the EU and this part of the Arctic. That's where people live, and that's where most of the value creation takes place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e742	I thank you for your answer and share the opinion of the Council of States that the Nordics are trying to coordinate on what interests we have in the northern regions, or in the Arctic, as it is often described as international, is important. We share a lot of interest there, but we also have some inequalities. I instead challenged the Council of State to say something about whether the EU was on the right track or not. I can understand that he will not characterize it very strongly, but I can reformulate the issue and challenge the Council of States on which elements of the EU Arctic Strategy the Council of States believes are a strength, which will build up under the ambitions and visions of cooperation in putting the Nordic region on the map, and then Norway as part of the Nordic region and as part of the Arctic. Which parts of the EU strategy related to the Arctic are the most widely considered serving Norway in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e749	I may have been unclear at first, when I said that I do not have such a thorough knowledge of the EU strategy that I can link points to that part. What we know from the daily political debate is that climate is important. To the extent that climate is found in the EU strategy, it will be an important part of it. Migration is also an important issue in the EU, so to the extent that the EU addresses migration work in its Arctic strategy, it will be important. Otherwise, I would like to begin by thinking that the most important part of our work will be to promote Norwegian interests towards the EU, preferably through Nordic cooperation. On the Norwegian side, climate, value creation and activity are also one of the most important pillars in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e760	I would also like to close with the new important position and want a good new year. I should do that from the pulpit instead, but one is so focused on what one should say. I took up border cooperation in my post. The Nordic countries have had a common internal passport freedom, and now we have a temporary or limited border control that the Nordic countries, with a number of others, have been allowed to have. My question is: will the Council of State take the initiative to re-establish Nordic passport freedom through a common passport control at the Nordic external border?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e767	I think that regional cooperation, European cooperation on the challenges we face in terms of migration and passport control, is a good thing. I also think that a united Nordic in that cooperation, with a common set of values, with common experience, is a very good one. But I'm not quite sure that the best way to cooperate in Europe is for the Nordics to somehow lock themselves in, and say that we should do it our way, and then the rest of Europe will have to deal with these problems in its own way. I think that the good dialogue we now have, the special arrangement we've been given, works as intended. I am absolutely sure that Norway has the most benefit of cooperating widely in Europe as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e772	We also cooperate in the Nordic region in many other areas. As I mentioned in my article, one in Sweden has now produced a quite broad programme for rural development – quite surprising for those of us who have run in the 'Glesbygden', but obviously necessary – and offensive. In Finland, which I visited last fall, there is a real one along the same line, where North Finland is struggling with deportation. In Norway, government has a different approach to the theme. I might also mention that in Denmark there has been a rather tough round after the major regional reform and municipal convergence there. Is there any cooperation on this issue within the Nordic Council, to look at the less densely populated areas as well, whether a common strategy can be adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e779	Yes, to the very highest degree. I also believe that we have a document called the Sundvolden Declaration, which is an incredibly plentiful and good document to improve the lives of people living in the districts, such as those living in the districts. me. It says we're going to spend more money on infrastructure, because infrastructure is important out there. It emphasizes that we should spend money on getting a good school, so it should not be that a youth who grows up in Båtsfjord should have less opportunities to realize himself and his abilities because he has grown up with a little worse school than what you experience to find other places. It's a program that sees the districts, that sees the north, and says that it's going to be our main economic center of gravity in the future. I think that the policy of this government is well against the documents that I record that are now being presented from Sweden and to others of our neighbouring country. But we should remember that Norway is one of the Nordic countries that has a large proportion of the population in the districts. So we did it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e784	I would also like to congratulate the State Council, Bakke-Jensen, on having a reputation in the government offices. There's always a Finnish mark in government, I think. My question is about transport, because in many areas Nordic cooperation is unique and well-developed, but in other areas, there is still a lot of fear. After all, the Council of Transport Ministers was laid down. I am in the Nordic Council in the development and growth selection. We've spent one and a half years collecting ministers for a conversation on common Nordic transport challenges. One-and-a-half years is used to get it. That seems to me to illustrate a big problem. Many of the greatest challenges we have as a nation are really about our relationship with transport, out of the country. Still, it's so hard to get this done. What would the Council of State do to speed up that work?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e791	Thank you for the congratulations. Firstly, it has done a good job in infrastructure and transport in the Nordic region. Secondly, I think that here the representative Knag County has come on a very good track, because for the North and for our part of Northern Norway in particular, the export routes out of the part of the country, through the North, will be the most important. I think it is important to see Norway in a much more horizontal line, and then transport through Norway, through Sweden, through Finland, towards our markets. I also think that close Nordic cooperation and active leadership in the Norwegian Nordic Council of Ministers should also be able to raise those issues on the agenda. I believe that this is a very good project for the community and for the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e796	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e801	Actually, I want to continue where I left off the replication with the Council of State. Nordic cooperation is one of the oldest in the world today in many ways, and Nordic parliamentary cooperation is one of the oldest in the world today. Cooperation is widely supported in the Nordic population, and studies show that a great many North Europeans also want closer and more binding Nordic cooperation than what we have today. The popular uprisings make Nordic cooperation different from other regional cooperation around the world and in Europe. Close cooperation can also contribute to meeting challenges facing the Nordic countries separately. On the one hand, the Nordic countries individually are too small to have an international impact on significance and to be able to assert themselves in a globalised value. On the other hand, the larger Nordic countries in certain areas are too large to solve some societal challenges and to be seen as legitimate democratic entities in everyday life for people. For Norway and the other Nordic countries, Nordic cooperation is therefore necessary for both assembly where necessary and decentralisation where necessary. Let's see more examples of this in our cooperation. But I thought I would use my post to ask some critical questions about Nordic cooperation, because I think it needs to be done in the future. Unfortunately, Nordic cooperation is not politically influenced by national everyday life. Let me take transport as an example: Some of our most important trajectories go beyond our borders. The brother of our goods crosses the Swedish border to Gothenburg, mostly on trailers. More than half of all our exports to Sweden are fish, and to a large extent that also happens with trailers. One doesn't have to have a very good look for wear on the roads to realize that it's neither forward-looking nor smart to reach markets quickly. So even though everyone is a few that Nordic transport cooperation should be intensified, it is very difficult to work together. Countries are too busy with their national transport plans. Everything outside our borders is being down-prioritized, even though the importance is far greater than the vast majority of European road constructions we have in Norway. We should actually have a Nordic transport plan, or at least a Scandinavian one. It could give us quick and effective ways to get important goods to the markets in the most climate-friendly way possible. Everyone wanted to light it up. Similarly, we see missing links between Nordic cooperation and day-to-day policy in Norway, for example. in the context of broadcasting. The size has just received a broadcast message, but there is nothing about Nordic cooperation. We have a unique linguistic starting point. One could use the broadcasting instrument to create closer cooperation and more understanding between our people. Then we would have a common language group of about 20 million. built-in. Diplomacy: Think what kind of offer we could give our citizens globally if we had coordinated our foreign stations. Education and research: Think how much more we could get, and how much more our young people would get if we had coordinated our education and research systems. Not least: Think how much easier our common labour market and welfare system would work otherwise if we had become a few about a common person number. These are simple things, but very difficult to do. This is how I could have continued. The sum of the lack of Nordic cooperation and the different barriers to borders are huge losses for our societies. There may not have been any real calculations on it, but it's not unnatural to imagine that it's about the losses in the 100-million-class of our respective communities. It can't go on like that. I hope, therefore, that the government will increase the level of ambition, and that the new Minister of Nordic Cooperation will use the year actively to raise it with our partners. From 1 January 2017, Norway will take on the leadership of this important work. It is a unique opportunity to make a difference and take new initiatives. I think that Nordic cooperation has become part of the field of celebration, obscures the extremely important dimension that this could be for both well-being, transport, cultural development, etc. Nordic cooperation is really something that should be one of the bet areas of the Norwegian government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e824	The Great Britain delegation for Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation has a mission from the Stortinget to help put Arctic issues and north-eastern issues on the agenda. It tries to do as best as possible, and it has resulted in relatively high activity in the 2015–2016 session, by being present and taking initiatives to create arenas both nationally and internationally to discuss key north-eastern issues. Let me take this opportunity to commend the delegation's ability to participate and to engage actively in many of the issues that are important to the nation. I would also like to take this opportunity to remind you that in 2016 we celebrated the 20th anniversary of the Arctic Council, and the short version on my part is that Arctic Council has been a success. There is voluntary cooperation between the eight Arctic countries that have passed for 20 years, and it is a consensus body based on environmental and climate cooperation. It has been innovative in its way of meeting the world, among others. by the fact that indigenous people in the regions have been represented at the decision-making table at the ministerial meeting every two years, starting from the beginning. Environmental and climate cooperation was the foundation. It developed into Norway’s safeguarding of important national interests by enforcing international law. It is UNCLOS, the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, which limits the rights and obligations of the nations involved. I think we should have used the opportunity to debate even more closely from the Norwegian side where Arctic Council will go for the next 20 years. There is now a development in which there has been cooperation on the environment and climate, which will be increasingly important also in the Arctic, but there is also an increasing interest in and a growing dialogue on economic development and opportunities. We've got a new actor on the field, also a married child of the Arctic Council, Arctic Economic Council, representing business throughout the region. At the moment, Finnish business interests have presided there, and they've taken over after Alaska. They have become an important actor by pointing to opportunities. There is also a trend towards increasing regionalisation in Arctic cooperation where several regional actors, whether in Norway, the territories of Canada and the United States or Russian regions, report. This is reflected in the final declaration of the 12th Parliamentary Conference of Arctic Members held in Ulan-Ude in Russia last June. There are three main issues discussed in that final declaration. It is linked to climate change, and here it is about both preventing further warming, with the consequences it will have, and dealing with the consequences we already see. I just want to briefly mention one example: it is already the case that in Alaska the Americans have had to take action to evacuate and move entire villages, because erosion as a result of the permafrost thare, causes villages to be literally exposed to the sea. And it's about being able to make changes, so that these communities in the north can live with the framework conditions that the climate gives, even in the future. The development of the Arctic for the four million inhabitants is very central when the parliamentarians meet to discuss Arctic issues and north-eastern issues. It's about education and research, not only in Nordic cooperation, that the Council of State was involved in its contribution, but also in the Arctic context. The living conditions of those living in the north must be the same as those of those living in other parts of the country. There is also a problem we face in Norway, although differences between north and south may be smaller in Norway than in some other Arctic countries. The safeguarding of the rights of indigenous peoples, the ability of indigenous peoples to develop their culture, their society and their identity, are central. Then I would like to use one confession to commend the efforts of the representative Nybakk, together with several, in the Nordic Council to also promote our indigenous peoples, together, the opportunity to participate in Nordic cooperation. It's not going quickly, but it's going in the right direction, slowly, but surely, and it's due to an explicit Norwegian effort to get to this. Back to Arctic cooperation: it is now the economic opportunities that point out. Arctic areas are vulnerable; there are a limited number of ecosystems there. It makes you have special challenges. Then corporate social responsibility – or how to run a store in an ethical/ethical manner – becomes an important area for the future. We want to take the initiative to develop better instruments to disseminate best practices for it, so that we will also have sustainable, viable northern regions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e844	I too would like to begin by welcoming the new Minister of Cooperation to the Stortinget and Nordic cooperation, a work that is both exciting and necessary – and not least important in the future. I want to boast of the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council, which is an active and visible delegation in cooperation. We highlight ourselves with suggestions and posts and are perhaps the most ‘on’ delegation in meetings and in the session. Norway has had two sample leaders this year, Bente Stein Mathisen, from the Right, and Jorodd Asphjell, from the Workers' Party, who have both put Nordic and Norwegian issues on the agenda and have been good ambassadors for the delegation. Nordic cooperation is becoming more and more important, where common solutions and common positions on large and small issues are needed. Developments in the European Union and in the world also mean that we should develop our close cooperation even more. Marit Nybakk underlined in his post the need very well. The fact that the Nordic Council has good cooperation with the Council of Ministers is crucial. Last year there was a positive budgetary process, which shows that we are on the right track. I look forward to the continuation, because there is little sense in running Nordic cooperation at parliamentarian level and would be very good, if the Council of Ministers does not follow up and show the way – and shows that the work of the Council matters. The fact that we parliamentarians see that our proposals are taken seriously and become reality is absolutely necessary in order for us to be able to contribute better. Border barriers are perhaps what matters most to the everyday lives of the inhabitants of the Nordic countries. It is good that three of the seven defined as a problem are clarified, while four — which for various reasons have been written off — remain. The restriction work must continue. It is probably the increased requirement for identification and the requirement for passports that is one of the barriers that has created the most unrest in the last year. Everyone understands that it is necessary to control who will enter a country in given situations, but against the large number who work in one country and live in another, and who have now had great delays and problems, it is not easy to defend that requirement. It must be further worked on, so that the passport freedom of which we are so proud and to which we are accustomed in the Nordic countries can continue – because it is important for the common labour market and for the common sense we have in the Nordic countries. Another area that has been on the agenda for the last year is more defence cooperation. There have been several conferences, with great participation and great interest, which show that there is something that needs to be worked on even more. Such meeting places are important for a field where there is no formal Council of Ministers. The Nordic countries have long had a common understanding of languages. That's something that we see with concern evolve negatively. In the Nordic Council, too, the use of interpretation is increasing. We must take this seriously – and not accept that our Swedish and Danish friends switch to English when we speak Norwegian. Fortunately, the series «SKAM» is now contributing to an increased interest in our regaining a common language, since it has been sold to both Denmark, Sweden and Iceland. I'm looking forward to more people taking that series with them. One was also concerned with this with general programming. Dubbing children's programmes is something that reduces understanding of languages. I believe that an important contribution to increasing language understanding is that we avoid duplication of children's programmes. Several good reports on common challenges and proposals for action have been presented in recent years. I want to mention Bo Könberg's report on health and on common challenges we have, among others. with antibiotic resistance, and Poul Nielson's report on working life, with which we are now working. Finally, I would also like to highlight the parliamentary cooperation in the Baltic Sea, the BSPC, as a celebration of 25 years in 2016. The 2016 theme was how to improve the transition between education and the labour market, and the final document is worth reading. I am also delighted to be a rapporteur in the field of culture and presented a report on action that can be taken to improve or safeguard culture in different fields in the Baltic countries and the Nordic countries. It is also an important cooperation that we need to build on. Finally, I would like to thank Elisabeth Vik Aspaker, the former Minister for Cooperation, who has been an interested and active minister of cooperation. It has been nice to work with her, and I hope that the next minister will be just as dedicated and interested in the important work that Nordic cooperation in the Nordic Council is.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e869	Norway, as it is known, is taking over the leadership of Nordic cooperation at a time when the world is changing strongly. Strengthening Nordic cooperation is a natural response to a development that is becoming increasingly less predictable – both internationally and in our neighbourhoods. I also see it in my daily work where I have close contact with the Nordic Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Development. Our foundation in the Nordic region is our long tradition of standing together and our strong community of values and interests. This is crucial at a time when established values and institutions are under increasing pressure. For the first time in my political function, I see developments from Europe's history that can actually repeat themselves in our future if we do not handle these developments wisely and responsibly. I believe that Nordic cooperation is more important than in a very long time because we agree on the values that are now being put under pressure. At the same time, there is no doubt that Nordic cooperation must also produce results in areas that people experience as important in their everyday lives. This concerns in particular health, employment, growth and safety issues. Practical cooperation and concrete results are what is needed to prevent nationalism and the emergence of solutions, and to prevent the weakening of our collective action. The Nordic countries face many of the same security policy challenges and often have similar views on the development of neighbourhoods. That is why we need extensive cooperation in foreign and security policy in the Nordic region, although we have different links. Denmark is a member of the EU and NATO, Norway and Iceland are in NATO, and Sweden and Finland are linked through the EU, but also a close partnership with NATO, as we have a close partnership with the EU. By sharing information, assessments and proposals for action, we provide the basis for common situational understanding and management, including in the event of crises. In addition to close dialogue, cooperation in foreign and security policy shall be further developed in areas where the Nordic platform provides added value in the form of enhanced impact and resource use. The north has to go to the brink to fence around the international framework of rules, values and organisations that have been built since World War II. We must also agree on a more sustainable development and more and free trade in the Nordic countries than in the rest of the world. The Nordic countries must take the lead in resolving humanitarian crises, as we recently did with joint diplomatic enquiries about Syria in Moscow and Tehran. It was noticed. The Nordic countries have always been among the most active supporters of the United Nations. Together with my four Nordic colleagues, I sent a letter to the UN’s new Secretary-General, António Guterres, before Christmas. Here we pointed to things we think it is particularly important that Guterres engage in the future. This concerns human rights, sustainability goals, peace diplomacy, further cooperation with the Security Council, the UN's overall efforts for development, equality, women's rights and reform of the UN Secretariat. It is a strength for both the Nordic countries and the world that Sweden has now taken its seat in the Security Council. This week it is my colleague Margot Wallström who heads the Security Council's meetings. We will cooperate closely with the Swedes, and we have started work to ensure that Norway can follow up their efforts by being elected to the Security Council for 2021 and 2022. I look forward to further deepening Nordic foreign policy cooperation in 2017. The Nordic countries are permanent friends and partners in foreign policy. I would also like to take the opportunity to pay tribute to the Arctic delegation of Storting, which I am delighted to meet later – at 5 p.m. 14 this afternoon. I think the Arctic delegation of the Storting is doing a very important job, and there are important issues that are on the agenda this spring. We're going to have an Arctic Council of Foreign Ministers meeting in Fairbanks in Alaska in May, and it's going to be under the new Trump administration. They are constantly developing their Arctic policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e892	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e897	Let me first thank you for a very interesting article on Nordic cooperation from a foreign policy perspective, i.e. on cooperation in the Nordic region on foreign and defence policy. When I first sat in the Nordic Council, there was no opportunity to discuss or talk about foreign policy or security policy. But foreign and security policy is becoming increasingly important to the Nordic countries, and I find it interesting when the Foreign Minister says that the Nordic countries are working together to fence around the international framework. I think he's absolutely right that we have that problem, and that we're promoting the Nordic values beyond our limits. I have a question related to Nordic defence cooperation. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think it can be further developed, precisely on the basis of the security policy alliances of which the various countries are members?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e906	I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the representative Nybakk for the work she has done for Nordic cooperation for many decades. If I don't remember completely wrong, the representative came into the Stortinget in 1986. It was still during the cold war, and then Nordic cooperation was much more difficult – related to security policy cooperation, at least. It's changed, and it's very interesting that now, at NATO's last foreign minister's meeting, Finland and Sweden were in the middle of a lot of discussions. They are close to NATO partners, just as we are close partners in the development of the EU's foreign and security policy strategy, where we have also made representations, and where we are involved. I am also invited to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the European Parliament to explain our views on Arctic policy, but also on the basis of a Nordic perspective. So there are great opportunities to also strengthen this cooperation further, beyond what we're doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e911	I wish the Council of State a good new year. Let's hope it's a good new year. As the Council of State was in its intervention, perhaps the global situation is a little bit more inconspicuous than it has been in recent years, and in an Arctic North Region situation, there are also things happening that make us perhaps not fully aware of where we are going now. We have a Russia that has violated international law, but with which we are still trying to have constructive cooperation. It is an explicit objective of both Norwegian and other parties. We have a United States that – as the Council of State was in it – has not yet launched its Northern Territory strategy. The Council of State has also made an effort to return to normalising the relationship with China, which became an observer of the Arctic Council recently. The European Parliament also discusses the EU Commission's communication on Arctic strategy. What are the developments in Arctic cooperation in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e918	We need to keep the Arctic as an area of cooperation. For the time being, we have not seen that many of the most worrying features, a 'zero-sum world', have come to the Arctic. It is also very interesting that when the EU now deals with its Arctic strategy – and I am going to consult the European Parliament – it is based also on the law of the sea and international law that is very important to us, and which actually also underlines the importance of Russia in the north. How we're going to do that balance in the future, I'm not going to be easy. But I have hope that we won't get the negative development in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e925	I thank you for the answer, and I share the hope of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. So far, it is my opinion that we have succeeded in doing so with Russia, where we have been able to be clear about what our view of their actions on other arenas has been, without it having infected over and destroyed the prerequisites for what is an important cooperation for Norway, but also for the other Arctic countries and for the rest of the world. As the Council of State had in mind in its reply, the European Parliament is now dealing with Arctic communications from the Commission. I believe it has taken many important steps in the right direction, in understanding what the Arctic is, and what legislation applies. Nevertheless, I believe that Europe does not have a sufficiently informed view of what the Arctic and its northern regions actually are. What measures or strategies does the Council of State have to contribute to an even better understanding in Europe and the EU of what is now needed in the northern regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e932	I think it has also been important to have key European actors in Norway and as participants in the North, in order to increase understanding of the Arctic. More than 10 pst. of our population lives north of the Arctic Circle. That's where the growth is strongest in our country. The combination of sustainable development, growth and environmental care needs to be addressed. There are probably some misunderstandings about how active we actually have in the north, and how we have a story to combine this. We also have a border with our neighbouring country Russia where there is a very asymmetric military situation. There's no doubt about it. One of the steps I have taken is to invite me to the Foreign Affairs Committee in the European Parliament, which is now going to discuss this strategy. I have also had several conversations with Federica Mogherini in connection with the design of this strategy from the Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e939	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e946	I would also like to start by congratulating my good colleague from Finnmark on his new position. It has been an interesting and instructive year as a member of the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council – interesting because you meet colleagues from other countries, instructive because it helps to better understand that the Nordic countries have a lot in common. But, as we see from the Storing Communication, there are still improvement points in many different policy areas. The border barriers have been mentioned, and are a good example that we have some way to go before we're really on the road. But I think it's nice that you have an ambition to remove five to ten barriers per year. The examples are many enough to say that you get what you want, if the political will is there, as the representative Knag Fylkesnes did in his speech. The term ‘Sammen we are strong’ is important when discussing the development of Nordic cooperation. We see it in more and more areas, and I, who come from the high north, will especially bring out Arctic Councils, indigenous cooperation and Barents cooperation as good examples of it giving added value to the population living there. At the same time, it is a shame that the Nordic Information Office in Alta is laid down on the grounds that the information and project work in the Barents region is best managed by Oslo. Understand that the one who can, I don't! As you know, Norway took over the presidency of Nordic cooperation now in January, with good target formulations. The Nordic countries in transition I feel well cared for, and as an EU man, I am pleased that the Nordic countries in Europe have a great deal of space, but perhaps even more so, I see the possibility of putting Europe in the Nordic countries on the agenda. In these days, we see that more and more people in this country are calling for Norway to be notified out of the EEA and to replace it with trade agreements with an EU with major internal challenges. At the same time, many people ask themselves what kind of America we'll get after the election of Trump as president. What we have seen in the form of various Twitter messages is – to put it a little diplomatically – very interesting and sometimes challenging to deal with. When we see at the same time that the geopolitical challenges in the world are getting closer and closer, it's exciting to see if we can solve this together, or if we're forced to solve it individually. All experience shows that a Nordic and a Europe best manages these tasks together by respecting democratic values and principles. Today, Europe is being challenged. We see that there is a greater uncertainty about the EU than for a long time. The United Kingdom is on its way out, and Brexit has led to exit discussions in many countries where right-wing populist parties and EU opponents are still gaining ground. Trump’s mantra ‘Make America Great Again’ has had too many trailers in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e960	If we thought for a moment that we should express in one sentence what we think about these documents that are here today, we could say something like this: Nordic cooperation is important, and it works essentially well. But it has to be said a little bit more. We can rejoice that we have well-developed political parliamentary cooperation through the Nordic Council. 87 of the members of the Nordic national Parliaments participate and develop personal relationships over the years that give Nordic cooperation a structure and not just refer to detached initiatives. The same applies even more to the Nordic Council of Ministers, which also involves designated departments. We can enjoy the Border Barriers Council – if the leader is sitting in the diplomatic lodge, as far as I have observed – which every day at practical level builds up the practical obstacles that may otherwise arise, making it difficult to cross the borders between the Nordic countries, either physically or through economic relations. We're going to enjoy that. Then we have come where, in addition to congratulating our new co-operation minister, I will also share with him some critical observations that I myself believe have observed after seven years in Nordic cooperation, and which are improvement points, as it is called. Firstly, political and ministerial cooperation works well, as I mentioned, but the Nordic permanent institutions do not. Evaluation, in so far as it is carried out, has limited consequences. Secondly, too much resources are used for side activities that do not directly benefit Nordic citizens. Thirdly, the Nordic taxpayers contribute more than 1 billion. kr per year. It's the current expenditure annually. In addition, we have the internal resources used in each department and in each country. We believe that it should be possible to impose stricter requirements on the results. It can also be raised as a problem if Norway is to cover almost one third of the expenditure. Furthermore, it is my claim that the will to give priority is not well developed and that the reforms could be bolder. In the future, I believe that the organisation under the Nordic Council must be prepared for new investments to be financed through efficiency or re-priorities. Nevertheless, let this post ring out with a confession of faith in the strong Nordic political cooperation. Together, we are also developing relations with the new independent countries in the Baltic region, a cooperation that is becoming incredibly important in the time before us, and which has some ominous signs of instability.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e982	The premise for Nordic cooperation, I think, is that we can move easily across the bounds, so that we, for example. can take us to work in one of the other Nordic countries. As transport rapporteur for the Nordic Council, there is one thing I have worked a lot on since I came in there. As it is called before today, we no longer have the Council of Ministers for Transport. It was closed in 2005. It was then said that it took six months, no, it took almost three years before the Nordic Transport Ministers wanted to meet the Nordic Council delegation to a meeting. We got it done in November. I want to say that there was a good meeting, and I think of it as the start of a slightly better cooperation, because it is that transport engages an unlikely number of members of the Nordic Council. The Nordic countries often have good transport solutions. But the international is also important, and cross-border transport links are also important. I think that national transport plans need to be coordinated. Plans cannot end at a limit. They need to be connected, such as transport systems are in progress. In the Barents area, they have created a common transport plan. The world has changed since the closure of the Council of Ministers in 2005. We have signed the climate agreement in Paris, which will require us to cut significant emissions from the transport sector. More of the freight has to be transferred to the railway in order to achieve this. From Gothenburg port, Norway's main destination, almost all goods are transported by truck across the Norwegian border – more than 2,500 trucks per day. That is a very important reason for the lack of competitive railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e990	We have two areas in the Nordic Council of Ministers. We have invested especially in Oslo – Gothenburg and on to Copenhagen, and we have invested in Ofotbana – ormbana. If we think of Oslo – Gothenburg, we talk about two of the largest cities in the Nordic region. It's a huge regional and local commitment. Unlikely many people want to work for this, but not the governments of the Nordic countries. I think it's a big potential. It provides opportunities for the Nordic countries, and I would like the new Nordic Minister of Cooperation to take these signals and put transport on the agenda as an important contribution to Nordic work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e993	The Nordic regions are our main foreign policy area and are of great importance for Norway both in terms of security policy and in terms of economics. The government strengthens the North Area Initiative from 2.7 billion. SEK in 2016 to SEK 3.4 billion. kr in 2017. It's natural to involve the government's Northern Territory bet in the Arctic debate, because the northern regions are part of the Arctic. If we're going to be able to show that we're taking seriously the Arctic work and development opportunities, we also have to show that we ourselves are doing a good job in our own area. Norway’s position has been and is strong in Arctic cooperation. Norway has long traditions in polar strata and large resources and activity. The government is working well to continue Norway’s strong role in the formulation of Arctic policy, and much has happened where Norway has been a hub in Arctic cooperation. The setting-up of the Arctic delegation in its time was to increase awareness and knowledge of the Arctic in the Grand Duchy. There is increasing interest in the Arctic, but also in the North, both in the Arctic countries and in a wide range of countries outside. Then it is important that the Stortinget is well up-to-date on Arctic policy. Arctic cooperation is constantly evolving. Arctic Council, which had its 20th anniversary last year, is important, but also the Arctic delegation here on the Stortinget and Arctic parliamentary cooperation contribute. The Storting Delegation is active, both by organising meetings here at Stortingen and around the country, and by actively participating in major arenas outside the country’s borders. Our Head of Delegation is also Head of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee and actively contributes to the work. He is actively implementing the final declaration of the 12th Arctic Parliamentary Conference, which was held in Ulan-Ude last summer. Cooperation between Member States works well. It is also necessary to comment on relations with Russia. International cooperation including Russia contributes to ensuring continued stability in the region. Norway wants a good and close relationship with Russia, based on mutual benefit and respect for fundamental international rules. But we are together with our allies and our partners in Europe about our reaction to Russia after their actions towards Ukraine. Despite this, we have good cooperation with Russia, especially in search/rescue, sound management of fishing resources in the northern seas and nuclear safety. The Barents Secretariat is strengthened, and not least we have good people-to-people cooperation. I would also like to mention the new border agreement to be made between Norway and Russia, which involves Neiden in South Varanger. It is important for both the North and the Russians.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1012	First, I would like to congratulate Mr Bakke-Jensen on his position as Minister of Coordination. As chairman of the Nordic knowledge and culture committee, I have had the pleasure of participating in Nordic cooperation for several years. The committee, which consists of 18 members from all the Nordic countries, with different party ties, has, at least over the years that I have been the leader, had very good cooperation on different issues. Close cooperation between the Nordic countries is important and must and must be a high priority among the different governments, so that this cooperation can develop even better in the coming years. The north, with its approx. Twenty-six million. citizens, is one of the world's most integrated societies and has one of the most integrated economies in the world. Therefore, strong and close cooperation between the Nordic countries is important for, inter alia, Norwegian value creation and employment. It is important for our economic transformation and competitiveness in an increasingly global market characterised by globalisation. The Nordic Science and Culture Committee is working on many important issues in culture, education and research that help to connect our countries even more closely. Cooperation in the Nordic Council of Ministers is important with a view to anchoring issues between parliamentarians from all over the Nordic region and from the various governments. It has been agreed on small and large issues. Among other things, the Council of Ministers: awarded 500 000 Danish crowns for workshops dealing with outdoor life for children and young people in the Nordic region. Another measure is a Nordic cultural school bag, where the Council of Ministers makes available searchable funds in 2017 to promote Nordic culture in schools. During the main session in Copenhagen in November 2016, the selection of knowledge and culture had a joint meeting with the Nordic Ministers of Culture and Education. There, parliamentarians from all over the Nordic region discussed important areas and issues on which the sample is concerned, with individual ministers. This is of mutual benefit and importance for progress in some cases and, where appropriate, for different points of view. One of the things we're dealing with is non-response. It is a common nordic challenge that the sample will work on in the future, especially in relation to high school dropouts. Another issue concerns the translation of the winners of the Nordic Council Literature Prize. We spend an incredible amount of money on nominating, judging and awarding, but we can't afford to spend enough money to get the works translated into the Nordic languages. This is a matter we want to raise, so that these works can be read by a large audience throughout the Nordic region. We have cross-border issues; we have the Nordic Council of Ministers' strategy for Nordic cultural cooperation in 2013-2020. We have the International Sami Film Institute, on which the Norwegian Government spends considerable money, but which has not been promised by Sweden and Finland in the same area. We have a Nordic youth film festival in Tromsø every year, where Nordic youth come together and work in workshops. Here, too, there is a challenge in getting good funding. I hope for a good and close cooperation with the new Minister of Coordination to solve important issues for everyone living in the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1035	I would like to congratulate the new Minister of Cooperation and the Minister of Europe – both are equally important. Nordic cooperation should become more effective, more visible and give us added value, said the representative Sylvi Graham – and that cannot be opposed. At the same time, I believe that as important as the matters we deal with are the meetings we have where we talk and get acquainted with our Nordic neighbours and friends – something that the representative Graham also concluded. I was elected to the Nordic Council a year ago, and before that, as a resident of Eastfold, I have been on border committees with Bohuslän and Värmland and know well about the challenges across borders. Commonly, as a ‘sugar child’, depending on which country had the cheapest sugar, we have a very special relationship with the Swedes. I also remember that when I was elected to Stortinget, I was invited to a meeting in Karlstad and went there, of course. I wrote a travel bill afterwards and heard from Stortinget that you couldn't do that, just travel to Karlstad, I had to apply for it because it was abroad. So we have a little bit to go about how we're going to facilitate cooperation, also on the Stortinget. The Nordic Council is called by some a soup council where nothing happens, despite too many decisions. My impression after a year in the Nordic Council is that there is no reputation. Here, it is possible to promote good cooperation projects and specific issues within a wide range of areas. I want to mention a few examples: I'm sitting in something called the sustainability committee, a sample for a sustainable Nordic region. Before Christmas we in the Socialist Group promoted a proposal to make a joint contribution from the Nordic governments to expanding filling stations for zero-emission cars across borders, so that we can all buy zero-emission cars and travel across borders without being afraid of where we can fill up fuel. The proposal was widely accepted by the committee, and I hope that the Nordic governments will also accept the proposal. It would really speed down greenhouse gas emissions from transport in the Nordic countries and contribute to cross-border mobility. I also attended a meeting with the transport ministers before Christmas. I hear someone say that it took a very long time to get it done, and I'm very aware of that, but we got it done. I think that's very positive, and it's going to give a new one into the work on this. It's a work that the border committees too, which we're going to meet for the week to get to the bet we want, are busy with. The work on this is not done. We have to keep going, just like here in Stortinget, when we want something to go through. I am positive about Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1054	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Three, four, five.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1068	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1077	Let me first thank the Christian People's Party for promoting an important matter. There's too much food going on in this country. It is estimated that 217 000 tonnes of food could have been eaten. The 2013 figures showed that we threw 190 000 breads every day. This is primarily a major ethical problem and a huge waste of resources. It is also a great paradox that while we are discussing the implementation of measures to reduce agricultural climate change emissions, the climate emissions for the food we throw are equivalent to emissions from 375 000 cars. One of the UN's new sustainability targets is that food waste should be reduced by 50 pst. by 2030. In order to succeed, many different measures need to be taken throughout the value chain. The food industry has a significant responsibility to reduce the food throw, and there is already a lot of positive happening here. Within the ForMat project, which is the business community's own initiative to prevent food waste, it is doing very well. Before Christmas I was with the Norway Group and visited Matsentralen here in Oslo. The food centre ensures that full-fledged food from the grocery trade benefits non-governmental organisations that distribute food to disadvantaged people. The centre is a very good example of what can come out of cooperation between the food industry, the food industry, non-governmental organisations and local authorities. I am pleased that, through the budgetary procedure in Stortinget, we have secured 500 000 kroner in increased appropriations for Matsentralen, although it was not increased by one million, as the Workers' Party proposed. According to the actors we talked to, there is no doubt that this money will come very well. There's also a lot of other positive happening. Among other things, we have been able to read about the Scandic hotels, which through the initiative Kutt Matsvinn 2020 aims to get many players from large and small hotels, restaurants and canteens to cut food waste by 20 pst. For Scandic, this is equivalent to 8 million savings. kr. On the milk cartons of the Q-meierien we can read about new and exciting proposals on how to reduce milk waste – proposals that have come up in cooperation with Young Entrepreneurship. As individuals, we can also do a lot more, and we all have to take the roof to cut the food waste, not least at home in our kitchen. For many, both private and business, it is often a matter of knowledge and attitudes. The size has asked the government to draw up a waste notification, and we also expect measures to reduce food waste to be part of this notification. An overall committee notes that this includes, among other things: must be addressed to how municipalities can handle food waste in the best possible way. The government is also asking the government to investigate how the date stamping of food can be improved in order to reduce food waste. And last but not least, it has to be determined whether there is a need to do something about the legislation in this area. In France, legislation has been adopted which helps to ensure that the large food chains instead of throwing food donate food that is edible. Measures from the entire food industry are encouraged by the legislation to prevent food waste, in particular that edible food should not be made unfit for consumption. It is an overall committee that believes that we also need to assess similar instruments in this country, as it can lead to a more significant and lasting reduction in food waste. I would recommend the vote, and I would also like to signal that the Workers' Party is interested in supporting the Greens' Greens' three proposals that have been put on the table today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1092	First, I will be allowed to take the opportunity to thank the Christian People's Party for focusing on an important issue and a major societal challenge that I hope both consumers, the food industry and the food industry can cope with. There is a great deal of consensus that the problem of cooking needs to be taken seriously. In Norway, several thousand tons of edible food are thrown each year, and the value of this is estimated to be 20 billion. kr. The proposers also show that the UN has estimated that about one third of the food produced is being thrown. The production of food also leads to greenhouse gas emissions and thus to waste disposal also leads to unnecessary greenhouse gas emissions. Everyone agrees that cooking is a problem that you have to do something about, and there are already a number of things done to improve the situation. Together with the Minister for Climate and Environment, the Minister for Fisheries, the Minister for Health and Care and the Minister for Children and Gender Affairs, the former Minister for Agriculture and Food and a global food industry signed an agreement on the reduction of food waste in 2015. The whole industry is involved in cooperation from primary industry to consumer level. The purpose of the Memorandum of Understanding is to strengthen cooperation between the Governing Authorities and actors throughout the food chain in order to reduce food waste. The intention agreement will apply until it is replaced by a concrete industry agreement when statistics and indicators are available that can provide the basis for concrete reduction targets. The intention agreement is a good starting point for broader cooperation with the entire value chain in the food industry on how to further develop work on reducing food waste and increasing resource use. The government supports the industry’s own prevention organisation, Matvett, which has been operating since 2012. Matvett has several information measures, including: mattvet.no and food.no. The ForMat project, which was implemented from 2010 to 2015, resulted in 25 pst. reduction of discards. Through this project, the food industry has also taken a number of measures in relation to date labelling. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Food and Fisheries finance much of the Research Council's BIONAR programme. In 2016, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has contributed to this programme by approx. 190 million. kr. For example, the programme supports: research on sensor technology and the use of robots for more environmentally friendly processes to reduce food loss. In addition to the BIONAR project, funds from the Agricultural Research Fund will be central to facilitating the development of new technologies and packaging that can reduce food waste. The municipalities are responsible for the collection of waste from households and the Environment Directorate has been given the task of assessing the means to promote the sorting out of organic waste and plastic. It is natural that this should be followed up in the communication on waste policy and the circular economy. Since 2009, it has been prohibited to feed in nature. This is now mostly due to combustion, feed production or composting. There is also an increasing interest in increasing the part used to generate biogas. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food, together with the ForMat project, and others, have been involved in facilitating the establishment of the Matsentralen, which distributes edible food that would otherwise be thrown to people throughout the Oslo area who need it. The Government also introduced exemptions from VAT on the withdrawal of food delivered free of charge for charitable purposes from 1 July 2016. The exemption will help to reduce food waste and make it cheaper for the industry to feed people who need it, rather than toss food. I believe that all the good work done will produce good results, and I look forward to the investigations that come as a result of the proposals in this case. The industry is already well under way, and consumers, who, after all, are the ones who throw the most, must come after.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1115	Eating their food, as we're all raised to do, is not just polite. It also helps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. By adapting our consumption to what we actually eat, we can also ensure a fairer distribution of food. Reducing food waste is no longer just a fight that fights around the dinner table for moms and dads in those thousands of homes, but it's also part of the UN's new sustainability goal that says we should have halved the world's food waste by 2030. Finding the good measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is one of the greatest policy challenges of our time. Knowing that 355,000 tons of edible food that we threw in 2015 was a greenhouse gas emissions comparable to over 400,000 passenger cars, according to the Future in our hands, reducing food waste is a low-hanging fruit to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The Christian People's Party therefore promoted in the harvest the proposal that we are debating today, and of which an overall committee is behind most of it. The food industry itself has taken important steps that have led to 12 pst. food loss reduction between 2010 and 2015. This is good, this is important, but it's not enough. I look forward to the industry agreement being negotiated, and expect it to contain concrete objectives and measures, but I still don't think that's enough. We have therefore made proposals with different measures across the whole value chain – from sea to land to table, from producer to consumer. All joints and actors must be involved. It's already done a lot to bring down the food waste, but we still have a long way to go to achieve the UN's sustainability target. We consumers are one of the biggest sources of food waste, and we therefore need to increase knowledge about the sustainability of food, the exploitation of residues and how we avoid food waste. We see that there are changing attitudes on the move, and we need to build this under and contribute to strengthening. We have therefore proposed that an awareness campaign be launched at school to teach children and young people how to prevent food waste. Several countries in Europe have gone ahead and introduced various forms of so-called food Chestnuts that prohibit the food industry and the food industry from throwing food, but rather providing it for charitable purposes. Such a law, combined with several measures throughout the whole value chain, could have an important impact on food waste. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee today is behind our proposal to grant a Norwegian food caste permit. We can't just have a food cast, maybe introduce it, if we don't have a whole value chain. That's why the Matsentralen that we have in Oslo today is crucial, and also bringing up other food centers around the country. Today's government, supported by the Christian People's Party and the Left, in the last two years' budget, has strengthened Matsentralen here in Oslo with concrete means of doing the job they do, even more up to date, so that they can do as much work as they need. That is why the 800,000 SEK that Matsentralen in Oslo has received this year and for the last year is crucially important money. We need to facilitate the efficient distribution of surplus food from shops and producers at, among other things. supporting today's food centres here in Oslo, so we're going to be able to achieve the goal of reducing food waste. But a great job we have as consumers to do. We know that we're the ones who throw the most, and that's why mind-creating campaigns are important in many forums in order for us to be able to get enough knowledge and new attitudes, so that we're all involved in reducing food waste. I take this up with me the proposals to which the Christian People's Party is a co-sponsor. Christian People's Party supports the proposals No. 3, 4 and 5, promoted by the Environment Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1136	The representative Line Henriette Heimdal has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1141	I would like to start by thanking the proposers and, to a large extent, joining in most of the things that have been said so far in the debate. Food is a resource. Food is a valuable resource. The center part is a food part, so we are busy taking care of the food resource and stopping the massive waste that is going on. This is a value question, just as when the Center Party dares to react when food chains give away food for free, with the extreme price focus they cultivate. It's a call for more cooking, and it doesn't support the value of food that resource actually has. I think that the setting, as it currently stands, outlines a number of good suggestions to reduce the amount of food waste. It is a political responsibility and a political task to contribute to the reduction of food waste. We have to do this through the whole chain. It is about the farmers, it is about the different actors in the food industry, it is about the food chains, and it is about the consumers. We must use both legislation and regulation – legislation that can also create and contribute to the creation of fences. We are behind proposal No. 1 but at the same time I would like to inform you that the Central Party supports the proposal No. 3 and No 4, from the Environmental Party of the Greens. I'm a little more uncertain about proposal No. 5, because, in my opinion, the current curriculum is already in place; it is of course one in the field of food and health is busy with reduced food waste. We will perhaps come back to it after hearing the basis for the proposal of the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1150	Food waste is a global challenge and an absolute challenge to address in Norway. We throw too much food, mainly because we buy more than we need, and more than we should. Safe food and food safety do not have to be challenged for all, but the sustainability regime and how the date labelling is handled can be a cause for throwing more food than we should strictly have. I believe that there may be a lot to pick up in this area. That is why I am pleased that we have this topic and the question for consideration, and I thank the proposers for the fact that the matter has been brought forward. I record increasing attention to both ethical and climate as well as economic aspects of food waste, that, in general, there seems to be an increasing awareness not least among consumers of reducing food waste, that there is a change in attitude and that the cooperation that governments and industry have so far taken on has shown positive developments. That's exactly why I've been, and I'm, more concerned with following the attitude trail than the regulatory trail. In this context, greater efforts are also being made to increase consumer knowledge of food waste and its prevention. The Committee considers that this should be done, inter alia, by: Foodstuffs and ForMat, which are the business community's own initiative to reduce food waste through cooperation with the authorities. I also point out that an overall committee points out that a binding trade agreement should include an enhanced awareness campaign aimed at the food industry and consumers. I think we should be careful to respond to all the challenges of law and law changes. That is why I have not readily agreed that the law should regulate this, but I think it makes sense to investigate whether there is a need for a food law, and I am pleased that a joint committee is behind such a proposal. I would like to point out that the Left will support proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, and proposal No. 3 by the Greens. Then, like what has been said by previous speakers, I would like to hear what the Greens have to bring to the squares of proposals No. 4 and 5 and, where appropriate, evaluate them as a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1167	Too many on this earth go to bed late in the evening, and too many people don't know if they have enough food for their children the next day. We who have enough food can't take special care of him. We're throwing too much food. We have numbers from the United Nations that show that one third of all food doesn't become food. It's open to us human beings, it's bad for the climate, and it's bad for the environment. Therefore, I will give tribute to the Future in our hands, which has driven activism against us politicians to do something about this. I will also boast of the Christian People's Party, which has taken the suggestion of the Storting. We in SV are completely behind it. Food waste occurs all the way from the food being produced, until he enters the refrigerators of people. A lot of the food gets thrown into grocery stores and in the food industry before he comes home to people. It's in this area that's now plural for a food cast, and it's very good. Certainly Norwegian shops throw 210 000 potatoes every day, 210,000 potatoes every day – think about it! There are more than two potatoes per capita in Tromsø that are thrown every day. We could have a free potato party every day in Tromsø City if we had used those potatoes properly. In Norwegian shops, more than 60,000 bananas are thrown every day. Journalist Jan-Erik Smilen wrote about this in the newspaper in the fall. He told me what it was like when he was little, in 1955. Then they had bananas on the rations card and stood at the dock in Oslo waiting for the banana boat to come. The contrast to today is great. In order to find good solutions to all the food throws, we need, among other things. provide sufficient space for the supply of usable food. We have the Matsentral in Oslo, and we've heard about more people who are interested in starting up food centres in several places. That's a good initiative. The food that cannot be eaten can also be used for something useful, for example: it is possible to see that it can go to biogas plants. Today, we don't have the structures in place to make this possible across the country. In my part of the country, we send it to Sweden. In SV we will continue to work to find solutions to that very thing. A lot of food is also thrown at people's homes. We know what it's like, there's busy days, there's food in the fridge, but then there's one in the store, and you don't really think about what one had, and then you just buy more than one needs. I think the technology can help us out of that problem. We have heard about a refrigerator, which makes it possible to check what is in the refrigerator while one is in the store. We have also received thermometers on the meat packages, which provide a more realistic assessment of how long the meat is durable. We need more solutions like this. That is why we are in favour of the proposal to ask the government: ‘to facilitate the development of new technologies and packaging which may contribute to the reduction of food waste’. I still wonder why the government party, the Labour Party and the Left will not be on such a proposal. This matter is also about climate. We know we have a huge job ahead of us. Greenhouse gas emissions have to go down, and if we had managed to reduce the food spill to nothing, it would give us as much cut in greenhouse gas emissions as removing 400,000 cars from the roads – 400,000 cars from the roads are the option. It should be able to mobilize any FrPs in the hall to take up the fight against food waste. When we hear that number, it gives us an obligation to act. We have to contribute to smaller food being thrown, and not least we know that Norwegian food waste alone can satisfy 800,000 people. This is nothing to wait for. I'm glad we're getting a plurality for a cooking law in Stortinget today. SV supports the first two proposals from the Greens/Greens/EFA, i.e. the proposal No. 3 and 4. In the case of proposal No: 5, we are almost completely convinced that there are already Norwegian curriculums today. I would also like to make the Stortinget aware that there is now quite a lot of work in the government with a new general part of the Norwegian curriculum. I'd like to warn you that we from the nutrition committee interfere improperly with that work. I would like to wholeheartedly support the proposal No. 3 and 4, and when it comes to the problem, I won't support proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox It's not out of will and resistance to fighting food losses and the stallions of Norwegian elephants, but simply because we have to do it right.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1198	Not only is it good people to eat their food; it is also good resource management. That is why I want to commend the Christian People's Party for promoting this good and important proposal, and I am very pleased that a joint committee supports the proposal to impose a food law on the food industry and the food industry. One of the aspects of discarding is greenhouse gas emissions, which, to put it another way than the representative Fylkesnes, correspond to a quarter of the emissions from passenger cars in Norway, according to a recent report from Eastern research. That's crazy a lot. Food fraud is also so important in the world – from a climate perspective and, of course, above all, from a food supply perspective – that the UN has included it as part of sustainability objective No. 12th@item: inlistbox Sustainability objective No 12, which Norway has joined, is to ensure sustainable production and consumption patterns. In addition, tons of food produced in Norwegian agriculture must be discarded today because it has the wrong shape or size, because with today’s regime food producers are not allowed to sell the food. This means that there are quantities of vegetables on dung around Norwegian farms because they do not meet cosmetic requirements. That is why the Greens are promoting a proposal which reads: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that, in particular, in the investigation of a food law, measures are considered to prevent full-scale food of uncertain size or shape being thrown into the value chain from the manufacturer to the store.’ Fortunately, in the process of reducing food loss, the Storting is now sailing in the downwind. Voluntary organisations and business are actively trying to reduce food waste because it's good people, because it's fair, and because it pays off. In 2015, over 1.5 million meals were distributed by the food centre in Oslo to disadvantaged persons, and this also corresponds to an environmental benefit of 1400 tonnes of CO2. In Bodø, the Greens/Greens/European Environment Party has been able to launch the establishment of a food centre and in Bergen to provide budgetary funds for the creation of a food centre there. The “Kutt food waste 2020” agreement brings together several actors to ensure that hotels, canteens and restaurants across the country cut the food waste by 20 pst. by 2020. It may not be the whole world, but a good start, which will make it much easier for business to be subject to a food law or other regulations, if you think it appropriate. Then we record that the Christian People's Party has not received the support of the Committee for an attitude campaign aimed at individuals. Over 60 pst. of the food waste is in private households. One can discuss whether it is due to attitudes or knowledge, but we are proposing a knowledge effort to achieve a halve of food loss by 2030, in line with the sustainability goal that Norway has signed up to. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking, as part of the implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals where we commit ourselves to ‘by 2030, half the share of food waste per capita, both in retail trade and among consumers, and to reduce losses in the production and supply chain, including post-harvest disposal’, to take appropriate measures to increase people’s knowledge of food waste and its prevention’. We are also promoting a proposal, proposal No. 5, which reads: ‘The Government requests that, as part of the implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals, the government ensure that food loss prevention is included in the main field of ‘food and consumption’ in the primary education curriculum.’ We have received signals that we can get support for this if we convert the proposals into transmission proposals, and that's fine for us. I hereby inform you that we can do so with the proposals No. Four and five. Nevertheless, it is important to underline knowledge as an important factor – how much do we really know about the sustainability and use of our food resources, how do we get more to get into our stomachs and less into the green bag, when the food becomes dangerous old, etc. Many of us have grown up without having to think about this, and restoring that knowledge according to the Food Authority will help to reduce food waste.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1230	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1236	I would like to thank the Stortinget for focusing on – through this representative proposal from the Christian People's Party – an important issue, simply how we ensure that food produced is used for food as much as possible. If we're going to solve our challenge of producing food for a growing world population, we don't have the agricultural land we need if we're going to keep throwing a large portion of our food, as we do in many Western countries. It's a challenge that's important to the government, and that I also feel is important to the Storting. This means that you need to work in several different areas to achieve your goals. The most important thing, and to what extent the proposal for a representative points out, is what is happening at the industrial level. And there's a lot of positive happening. While the Storting debated this now, many actors in the food industry are already looking at new markets and new products. A few years ago, when I was a carpenter, we called everything we cut off to beef, beef. Then we lift our legs in the gutter and call it waste. Now the food industry calls it a plus product. It gives domestic value creation, and it also gives more use to food. At the same time, we see that actors now cooperate, for example. through projects such as VEGETABLES, which are about putting fruit and vegetables crops into the meat industry and reducing food waste and creating new products for consumers. It's on its way into the Horeca market now. A lot of exciting things are happening at the industrial level, which a lot of this is targeting. At the same time, our main challenge is to throw too much food at home. More than 60 pst. of the food waste happens in the home of people. The value of that is on average NOK 5800 for a family. If we can halve it, it gives the individual family a lot more money to spend on more sensible things. Then it's about something as simple as using the food you bought. I don't have a reason to say that I get too much of a lap slide, but sometimes I believe in it. It's about something as fundamental as taking out the products you have left in the fridge, and making the last dish of them – and in most cases lapskaus is good. We really need people to be very aware, once they buy, that they can use the food they bought. It's hard to run active holding campaigns for, but I think at the same time that if we remind people of it, normal people in this country make reasonable choices. At the same time, the government is working with the business community – for example: through the cooperation agreement between industry and the government — in order to reduce food waste in industry. The bioeconomy strategy, which the government has just presented, shows a clear focus on reducing food waste. The VAT exemption – which allows retailers and wholesalers to give away the food they have previously thrown, free of charge, to voluntary organisations, which can distribute it – gives incentives to reduce food waste. So here's a lot of important grip you can do, and I'm happy to think that the positive things we can contribute to are more important than believing that we can regulate ourselves from this. The food industry is going to use the food they have — when they find a market for him. Having faith in market law, having faith in product development, having faith that those who run in the Norwegian food industry are able to develop new products is the most important success factor we have in closing down the industry. The fact that people are busy eating more lap food and other products of the food they've already bought is important to reduce the vast majority of the loss, namely the food that's already in our refrigerator. We have to use it while one is able to do it, and we have to use a larger part of it than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1253	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1258	I had initially not thought I would challenge the Council of State so much, but at the end of the article there came something that I thought it was important to clarify. When the Committee points out that it is important that the government investigates the need for a food law, it is a little strange that the Council of State says in a way that here is the market that needs to exist, and that will happen on its own. What I want to get an answer to is how the Council of States really intends to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1265	The size could be quite certain that I intend to follow up the decision on the size of the store. At the same time, I believe the most effective way to close down is that we actually get the Norwegian food industry, which is innovative, which is good at creating new products, to see market opportunities. I think that important incentives to do that will give faster and better results for the whole food chain than if we just regulate. I'm going to figure out what the Storting is asking for today, and come back to Stortinget – it can be absolutely safe on that. At the same time, I think we can have a common understanding, very many, both in the government and outside, that when people think about something, they use to make good choices. At least we believe that in Sunnmaere! And if we're actually making sure that there's a food industry that sees opportunities in the market for usable products that they're throwing at today, that's the best way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1272	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1279	This is just a brief explanation of vote. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports proposal No. 3 by the Greens. Since the proposals No. 4 and 5 have been converted into transmission proposals, we will also support them because these are proposals, in particular proposal No. 4, which should be involved in the committee's discussion, so that we could look at the consequences of it. But that might be useful in the further assessment of what to do. As regards proposal No: 5, we go a long way into an area where the whole others are responsible, which the representative Knag Fylkesnes was in. And that might also be useful for further assessment, but we don't have an overview of the consequences. So we can support that the proposals No. 4 and 5 will be converted into transmission proposals, and then we'll see if it gets support in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1288	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1302	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1312	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation. The committee has been divided, but of course it has crystallized itself by a majority. I have to say that the commitment has been great in this matter of Meldning. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. There has been an incredible debate on a contentious industry. We in the Committee have considered this matter thoroughly and well, and we have come to an opinion that I hope is well received by all parties. A minority in the Committee would like to put an end to the industry, and a majority, consisting of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, support the Committee's position that we should have a sustainable development of fur animal nutrition. This means that the industry should be given the opportunity to develop without prejudice to animal welfare. At the same time, it is important that the measures taken are not more rigid and more difficult than that sustainable development is actually possible. The majority generally support the big message. This also applies to the prohibition of group holding of minks, with the small change allowing for the opening of group holding on farms participating in an animal welfare programme, which complies with strict animal welfare requirements, measured by objective and verifiable animal welfare indicators. This change means that those who do well – and have done well – with good animal welfare have the opportunity to continue to hold teams. The others have to look for changes in animal husbandry or find something else to do. With the change that the majority has made, we facilitate relations for the serious and good players in the industry on the one hand, and we ensure better animal welfare on the other – a win-win situation both for industry and for animal welfare on the other. It is important to clarify, even though animal welfare requirements are now strengthened, that the fur industry is of the best animal welfare animal husbandry. Strict demands, close follow-up and skilled fur farmers have significantly improved animal welfare in recent years. The industry itself has gone into the brink of reporting police unprofessional actors, excluding them from the FarmSert certification scheme and also excluding unprofessional operators. There is no industry that is followed up more closely by the authorities than the fur animal industry. A new regulation was introduced in 2011 to improve animal welfare. The industry itself has its own animal welfare action plan, which goes much further than the regulation in several areas. They have also intensified efforts to avoid fearsome animals and have introduced, inter alia, mandatory health services with at least three annual veterinary visits — all to demonstrate that this is a good industry that ensures good animal welfare. As I said, the industry has done a lot to ensure this, and the industry should also be commended for their openness and interest in showing up their farms. Anyone can ask for a visit to a pet farm. It's no longer necessary to break in. Finally, I will be allowed, in a day like this, when one looks at both the weather and at the debate, to quote Knut Hamsun, from the book Pan: "It can be raining and storming, it is not where it comes to, often a little joy can empower one on a rainy day and cause one to go aside with his happiness." Then I think that I would like to welcome the debate with this. I hope that there will be a good debate and that we will finally get a good result.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1336	Furnace industries have been in dispute in Norway for many years, and when the Pels Committee's suspension was sent to the hearing, there were several professional environments, such as the Swedish Veterinary Institute, the Norwegian Veterinary Association and the Animal Ethics Council, which sought the closure of the industry. The majority also asked the government in its decision of 11 December 2014 to assess the ban on fur production in the follow-up to the Pelsa Committee. The government concluded in its setting by continuing the industry with intensification suggestions. In particular, this prohibition on group holding of mink applies. In the course of the consultation, several teams found that the last few years of budgetary changes, together with proposed reinforcements to group teams, would lead to uncontrolled closure of the industry. According to the notification for a 1 000-minor breeder, this prohibition will require investments of between 3 and 3,4 million. kr in order to be able to continue the same production as today. In addition, this and other intensifications will significantly increase operating costs. In the majority vote, it is stated that a general ban on group teams of minks should be introduced, but that it should be provided for group teams under certain clear conditions. The impact of this proposal on both animal welfare and profitability cannot be seen at present. We have been clear from the Workers' Party that unless animal welfare in fur farming is improved, the industry must be discontinued. It is apparent from the media and the monitoring of the industry by the Food Authority that there is a breach of the law. The Labour Party also has its own national resolution on managed winding-up. We record that through the notification the government has assessed it as fully possible both legally and practically to implement a controlled closure of Norwegian fur farming. The Workers' Party believes that what the government has proposed is not sufficient, and we note that the industry's view is that the overall government's proposal will provide so weak profitability that it is likely to lead to uncontrolled liquidation. The working party considers it important that those who have operated in line with the legislation, invested and built up their activities in relation to fur breeding should be maintained through a sound resolution plan. For the sake of both animal welfare and industry, we believe that the liquidation period must be short. From the Labour Party we want to support Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian food production. Therefore, we will facilitate the transition to new agricultural activities based on the resources of use. If it is not possible to convert the farm into other agricultural activities, another compensation must be considered. Furthermore, we believe that it would be better with a properly compensated winding-up than with new restrictions that starve the industry. In our proposal, we therefore ask the government during 2017 to promote for the Stortinget a separate case of guided closure of fur animal nutrition and to ensure that necessary means of conversion are made available during the liquidation period. With that, I take up the proposal on which the Workers' Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1351	The representative of Odd Omland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1356	On 4 November last year, the Government presented the breeding notification of the fur animal industry, concluding that the industry should be maintained with enhanced animal welfare requirements. The majority of the Committee supports the proposal for sustainable development for fur animal nutrition and for a general ban on group husbandry of minks but provides for group farming on farms participating in an animal welfare programme which meet strict animal welfare requirements measured by objective and verifiable animal welfare indicators. Fur animal nutrition is an industry with long traditions in Norway, back to the early 1900s. Norwegian fur animal nutrition is an important part of Norwegian agriculture and contributes to the creation of value added and jobs in several places in Norway. Most fur farmers live in Rogaland, Oppland, Hedmark, Sogn and Fjordane, Møre and Romsdal and Trøndelag. During the hearing in the case on 24 November, it was found that opinions were shared on the results of research on group teams of minks, and whether this is in itself the most risky factor for harm to animals. There are results showing that the difference in animal welfare between farms, regardless of the number of animals per cage, is greater than the difference between husband and wife and family. This research suggests that care factors and genetics are more important factors in animal welfare than the number of animals in each cage. It was argued that this is not adequately stated in the wholesale notification. Furthermore, several suggested that the extension of the prohibition on the use of neck seaweed by chest control and insemination could lead to a significant increase in the risk of injury to animals. Several also pointed out that the proposal to ban group teams would be very costly for the industry and would in fact lead to uncontrolled closure of the industry. At the hearing, there was also a desire for regulatory confirmation of the requirement to relate to animal welfare programmes in order to ensure that animal welfare is under control and improved and that documented results are presented with continued permission for group management. The model mentioned sets out strict requirements for animal welfare. The starting point is that couple housing is required, as proposed by the government in the notification, but fur-bearing animals certified under the animal welfare programme are allowed to have group-holdings according to current rules. Verification under the certification scheme is carried out annually. The non-consisting person loses the certification and has to bring the crew down to the same accommodation. The model also provides a regulatory mechanism with strong incentives for improvements in animal welfare. It may also provide a more stable and predictable framework for this industry. Fur farming is carried out in a number of countries around the world. China and Denmark account for 25 p.m. of production. In Norway, we only have 1 pst. of mining production and 2 pst. of the fox production, broken down by approx. 200 farms. But it is an important supplement for many farmers. In addition, residues from both fisheries and agriculture are used in the feed production of fur animals. In the event of closure in Norway, this production is most likely to be carried out by other countries. The right is concerned with sustainable production and that good animal welfare must be at the bottom of production, but we have no tradition of cutting down profitable industries and jobs, especially at a time when we need every single job.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1379	In the context of this communication on fur nutrition, there has been one word that has been important for the Christian People’s Party – throughout the process, it is “animal welfare” that has been our focus. Based on our ideology and administrative responsibility, we believe that we are responsible for the proper care and management of our resources, and with it also caring for animal welfare. Therefore, we are upset when we see pictures from fur farms that do not treat the animals well, and where it is quite clear that Norwegian rules are not being followed. We're not going to have it that way. Animal welfare shall remain a priority. Even today, fur animal nutrition is subject to stricter legislation and supervision, and this is important to ensure that these animals have good animal welfare. We know that in Norway today they all, most fur farms, have good animal welfare, but then we have exceptions that don't have it, and that means we can't be satisfied with today's situation. There were different considerations that were not sufficiently addressed in the hearing, such as: freedom of movement and activities. Like all other industries, fur animal nutrition should also be sustainable. Yes, if we are to have an industry, it must be economically sustainable, but it must also be sustainable when it comes to animals and their welfare. The Christian People's Party was therefore pleased that the government proposed restrictions to improve animal welfare, and that the majority of the Committee agreed to introduce a general ban on group teams of minks. Derogations from this prohibition, as opened up, shall only be made in cases where the farm participates in an animal welfare programme and shall then be assessed on the basis of objective and verifiable indicators of animal welfare. An important step is also being taken when the requirements for the use of activity objects are tightened so that the animals become more active. This will give more natural activity, reduced fighting with other animals and less fur nagging. Today, we are taking new steps to ensure better animal welfare for fur farming. It's the Christian People's Party very pleased, and this has been our goal in this work from the very beginning.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1393	Pelvic sac is a matter that arouses strong feelings. I respect the commitment that is. But when we are going to design the policy, it is necessary for me to base that image of the industry as it appears to the party – and that, based on the information we have access to, and also the information we have collected. I've visited a lot of fur gardens around Norway. What does one experience there? Well, a farmer who is happy in his animals, a sees animals who are well. And it's absolutely necessary for one to get high quality on the skin, so that one should get a high price when one sells them. I sometimes feel that it is such in this debate that a neighbor has to complain that one is for us to have a fur nutrition in Norway. I definitely don't. I think it's an important industry, an industry that takes animal welfare seriously. I want to borrow a few words that the oil minister used at the Sola at Stavanger yesterday – he said it should be allowed to be proud to work in the oil industry. I want to say that it should be allowed to be proud fur farmers in Norway. What is interesting in today's debate is that we have no proposals on the table to ban the translation and import of fur. So the question we're going to decide on is not whether we're going to have reefs and creases in cages, but whether we're going to have reefs and creases in cages in Norway. That's what this is all about. This was something that was also pointed out by the Pelsa Selection in its NOU. They said that if there is to be a closure of the industry, it is natural that it is combined with a ban on the translation and import of fur animals. There are no suggestions today. 98 pst. of the reef and 99 pst. the reduction is raised outside the borders of Norway. The number of mines in the world will not change, the demand will not change what we do in Norway, and I'm pretty sure that many, both reefs and minks, in other countries would like to have been subdued by the Norwegian animal welfare regime. Now we've had a full review -- we've had a NOU that's been listening, we've had a message, the committee's been listening -- now it's time to draw a conclusion. The central party’s primary position was that we took important action in 2011, leaving them to work, but we found it necessary to engage in dialogue with other parties in order to secure the main direction: sustainable development for the industry. So I think when it comes to group holding for mink, we have come up with a solution that is better for animal welfare than the government's original proposal. So the main estate is sustainable development. It's in the government's notice, it's in the majority's proposal. So we've been some people about the sanity, and it's been important to us. And then I see that there's a proposal from the left on the table. I wonder a little bit about it, because when one has a view of holding a mink group, is it that one also supports the proposal for Decision I, from the plurality, simply to have a viable development? The wording of proposal No 2 may suggest that there is a bit of a political game you ask for, when you refer to it as ‘the government’s own big message’. Today we shall make a decision, and I believe that for the sake of animals and animal welfare, there is a need for calming down around fur animals, so that farmers dare to invest in animal welfare. No one will do if one has a constant threat of closure hanging over it. Therefore, if you want to strengthen animal welfare, and if you really are busy with the welfare of the fur animals, then you have to give the industry peace and opportunity to operate in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1411	We're going to make a decision today, but it says that a great job for both government, administration and farmers, to follow up the decisions the Storting has made. But I mean – and I'm proud – to be part of an important decision for jobs and animal welfare in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1414	Back in 2003, when Lendens Lars Sponheim was Minister of Agriculture, Stortinget adopted an animal welfare report that gave the fur industry a ten-year period to deal with the many animal welfare problems that one saw in the industry. It's not ready for fur nutrition. Now 14 years have passed, and the professional judgement of the Veterinary Association, of the Animal Ethics Council, of the Food Authority and – yes – of the Pels Animal Selection Committee is that the situation in fur nutrition is still insufficient, and that one has not achieved the goals set in the 2003 Animal Welfare Communication. So it's not like that, that one can get the impression from the representative Pollestad's post, that there's commitment and emotion that's what drives them that thinks it's now time to say that enough is enough. It's quite a lot of professional documentation, as a good one to ignore. So I would like to stress that that one has not reached the goal of the animal welfare message, not necessarily because of the individual breeder. I myself have been on several fur gardens, I know several fur breeders, and I can sign what is said: that most of them want their animals the best. But it's not like one can get the impression from previous posts that because one gets to sell the fur, by definition, it's good animal welfare. That's the logic that underlies. When conditions are not better than what they are, they are due to the very form of operation, which is not good enough, and which is hardly going to be good enough with the size that is agreed today. Nevertheless, the government party, the Central Party and the Christian People's Party will give the industry another postponement, another chance, even if a large minority today will vote for a controlled liquidation. I also record that there are significant counterclaims within the government party in this matter. It is otherwise also backed up by a large and ongoing plurality in the Norwegian people. I think it's safe to say that fur nutrition lives on borrowed time, because the ethical consciousness around animal welfare is constantly growing, both in the people and in the political parties, and because more and more people see it as the Left sees, that wild animals don't belong in small cages. The animals we breed in Norway have natural needs: the need to hunt, to dig, to sympathize; the needs that they cannot and cannot escape for in a life in a small netting cage – before they are converted into the luxury product to be exported to China and Russia. That's why this call from the Center Party to impose an import ban is a blow to the air. We can introduce an import ban for the left hand side, that's okay. But here's an export industry. It's not Northmen who drive and dress up in giant fur lockers, it's Chinese. Of course, all forms of animal husbandry result in a weighting, one on the one hand having to look at the desirability and usefulness of animal husbandry and, on the other hand, how animal welfare is preserved. Here we have a lot to do in many sectors. But at least it should be possible to gather that having fur animals in small cages to make the fashion product of those beaks is a very heavy consideration when you see the poor animal welfare being documented on the other side of the scale. There are also some positive estimates in the message. There were some suggestions in the message. The most substantial was a ban on grouping of mink, which would have led to far fewer injuries to animals. It meant the Right-front party government was a good suggestion. But the Right and Advance Party on the Stortinget don't think that's a good suggestion. In the committee position, it is stated that the government parties, together with the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, will not support the government's proposal. Rather, one suggests a diffuse model with great possibilities for exceptions, which is likely to undermine its full purpose. How can the Minister of Agriculture live by not even finding support for his own proposals among his own at Stortinget? It's hard for me to understand. But the government's going to have another chance. I would like to raise the Left's proposal, where we ask the government to introduce a ban on the holding of a mink, in line with what has been outlined. And then it's a very difficult thing to ask the government party to vote for the proposal of their own government, but I have a hope that they might want to do it anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1433	The representative of Sveinung Rotevatn has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1439	Animal welfare in fur nutrition is bad. It's well documented. It is only someone who has such a God-given gift, as the representative Pollestad, who can go on a completely own journey around and come up with entirely own conclusions, contrary to what professionals have come up with. What makes sense is to give up this industry, or at least do everything we can to limit the suffering that the animals are suffering. Thus, it was an important step in the right direction when the government in the fall produced a fur message that streamlined the industry legislation. The most important proposal was a ban on the holding of a decrease in cage groups. Mink is not a flock animal, and like most other fur animals, they are not animals that adapt to a cage life. They suffer, are stressed, understimulated and respond by attacking each other or harming themselves. Now the Central Party and the Christian People's Party have joined the government party in a spin-off operation. Now, however, there is no plural prohibition on group retention of mink. Group cage mink shall be permitted as long as they are part of the «animal welfare programme». The suggestion is a word game, not a real animal welfare program. There are two things that are special about this reverse operation, first of all that the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are more extreme than the government in this matter. Where was it from the administration of the Christian People's Party, where as a human being we have a duty to God to manage nature in his image? How can the Christian People’s Party argue that ever unnecessary suffering is in line with the moral principle of the party? And what place does animal welfare actually have in the Central Party of Agriculture? Has animal welfare played out its role? Is everything allowed and to be subsidized as long as it has something to do with farmers? The other special thing is that government parties could have a different number in this case. SV, the Labour Party and the Left stood with open arms to substantially support the original government proposal. Why has the government turned around? What new fact in the matter has emerged that has necessitated a reversal? While we have an alliance for fur breeding on the Stortinget, the Norwegian Veterinary Association, the Veterinary Institute, the Animal Ethics Council and the Food Safety Council say that it is impossible to ensure good animal ethics with today's forms of operation. The Veterinary Association reports that they have several veterinarians in the Food Safety Authority who experience great professional and ethical burdens by carrying out inspections in fur farms. It does not listen to the alliance for fur farming. Section 3 of the Animal Welfare Act states that animals shall be ‘protected against unnecessary stresses and loads’. It is difficult to argue that fur farming is necessary, especially not under today's conditions. Hence, SV is working to reduce the feeding of fur animals through controlled winding-up. Combined with nutrient conversion agents, we can become a country that takes animal welfare more seriously. When the food ban is in place, it is natural to establish an import ban on fur from farming. There are no legal barriers to saying that enough is enough. The Ministry of Justice and Defence itself states that Norwegian laws do not ‘provide protection to fur breeders against the imposition of a ban on fur farming’. On the contrary, the department wisely pointed out that «the consideration of animal welfare, where appropriate for ethical reasons which could be behind a request for a ban on the production of fur animals, are recognised societal reasons on which the legislator can unquestionably emphasise as a basis for a prohibition». The purpose of fur animal nutrition is to use fur for the mink and for the fox. The rest is waste. But the coat is hardly anyone in Norway who buys. He's being sent abroad. One might wonder why it is so important for these parties to subsidize an industry that leads to great suffering and where the market is rich Chinese. Prior to the presentation of the message, 143 000 signatures were collected for the cessation of fur nutrition. There is no everyday food in this room. Neither were all these human beings listened to by the Alliance of Fur Breeding.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1460	SV is considering supporting the proposal from the Left. We're coming back to what our position to that is.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1464	When the Storting dealt with the animal welfare notification in 2002, it was a clear premise that a significant improvement in the welfare of fur animals had to be made by 2013. It is quite clear that this has not happened, not because Norwegian fur breeders are worse people than us – they are doing a great deal to drive their industry – but because the mode of operation itself is impossible to combine with good animal welfare for predators, some of the most advanced organisms that exist here on earth. Putting them in small cages can never lead to anything but poor animal welfare, and we can't keep talking away from that. Then we'd better be honest enough to say that we ignore that. It's nice that all parties want to make more stringent demands to improve animal welfare, but there are two things it's important to take into account. One is that it is not possible to combine the mode of operation with good animal welfare. The second is that the type of adjustment proposed to prohibit group holding of minks, but nevertheless to allow it for farms of so-called good operation, is contrary to the industry's own economic interests and to the biology of the animals. Group-holding of mink is forcing solitary animals to be together. They don't like it, and they're never going to like it. It is also important to remember that there is a difference between predators, not least here where we have a president – although there is a president with a different color of hair than the one sitting here now – who is demonstratively interested in predators. The wolf is a social predator who likes to be in rivals in flocks, and who should be allowed to do it. The decrease likes the opposite and should be allowed to do it. The Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice and Defence has assessed this in such a way that a prohibition is enforceable within the Norwegian law and that there is no need for a long transitional period for legal reasons. Menon Economics estimates that a managed liquidation is socially viable. The proposal we've received from the government, and which the majority will be in favour of now, I think is a pollination of the fur animal nutrition in line with the chirping we're doing of the animals in that industry. It is also important to be aware that the Food Safety Authority, which is required to keep an eye on these activities, is faced with a very difficult situation when, at the same time, they deem the establishment ethically unsustainable, or at least not in accordance with the intentions of the Animal Welfare Act. We can be proud of Norwegian agriculture. Sustainable agriculture has a central place in business to drive the green shift, and good animal husbandry is a prerequisite for this. But then that animal husbandry must take into account the basic needs and natural behaviour of the animals and the professional knowledge of those animals. If we don't, we don't keep animals; we do commercial animal plague. The Green Party has previously proposed the closure of the fur industry, and we are therefore pleased that the Left, SV and now also the Workers' Party agree that a managed winding-up is best for both animals and industry, with proper compensation packages ensuring transition to other businesses. We are voting in favour of the proposal from the Labour Party, the Left and the SV on a guided winding-up, and we will consider voting in favour of the proposal from the Left to ban group cages. We shall therefore be voting against the proposals for Decisions I and II by the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1485	I would like to start by thanking the majority of the population for the fact that it is largely in line with the proposals contained in the government's communication to the Swedish Government on fur nutrition. After listening to the introductory articles here, you might get the impression that you are now going to continue the basis of an industry that one thinks doesn't have enough animal welfare. But that's not correct. The majority today say that we should continue the basis for an industry that will have a regulatory framework that will ensure adequate animal welfare. This I mean it is possible to do with the Storting today. The starting point of this message is that it should be possible to feed fur animals in Norway, but with an animal welfare of sufficient quality. Today, several representatives work back to 2003 and the decade in which the industry gained sufficient animal welfare as an argument for a now implementing managed winding-up. But there is little evidence to suggest that when Stortinget dealt with this work in 2002 and 2003, the animals would no longer be in cages and Norwegian fur farms would not be cage-based, but it is the main argument one today uses when one says that one will have liquidation. So the argument is not consistent if you first use the 10-year term on one page and the argument you use for controlled winding-up today. I think all the actors in this are thinking that we're neat in our reasoning. The majority of the population today secures the possibility of running an industry in Norway that is important in many districts, but with a clear commitment and clear expectation that animal welfare will be sufficient. Nor is it the case that everyone knows about the interpretation of animal welfare in the fur industry. Many veterinarians believe that animal welfare is already sufficiently good – I don't think so, then I wouldn't have suggested some of the things that come in this message. The Scientific Committee has produced reports that say that the welfare of animals is largely preserved, and there is also a professional disagreement about this. But the message that we have provided is intervening for the industry, and it is intervening for one reason alone: it is that we are totally dependent on the production we are producing in this country, having sufficient animal welfare on one side, but also sufficiently low the risk of damage to the other. For this reason, the government has made several proposals to support it, whether it is work, systematic, to prevent biased bone position or risk reduction by bans on the holding of groups, which are actually agreed today. There is a general ban on group keeping, but it is possible through a programme that must ensure the same good animal welfare as a clearer if one only has them in cages, even if there are several. This will allow animal welfare to be reduced, while at the same time it will provide the basis for production to be carried out on Norwegian fur farms. For me, it's important, because when you say that we can freely import, we can freely translate fur animals in Norway, I don't think the collective animal welfare is better off moving profitable jobs in Norway out of Norway. For this reason, I am constantly pleased that we are now streamlining the legislation and ensuring that animal welfare is generally improved, and that animals are stimulated to higher activity in cages, but also that we ensure that the risk of production goes down, because we cannot see the extent of damage as we have seen in the individual case in the time we have behind us, in the future. At that, I want to be completely ready in the end, because it's about the eggs of fur nutrition. The bulk of the population that is now gathering is scarce, and the government has tried hard to get this in place. There is no ringing daemon for fur animal nutrition at this time to understand the seriousness of the problem. This plurality is so fragile that now people are standing up for fur nutrition – now fur nutrition has to come in line with the order Stortinget makes. I'll make sure that in the future, too, in the legislative design.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1498	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1503	The resolution of the mink group was the government's great step towards improving animal welfare, and the majority position says, as we have been told, that a new regulation should have a general ban on group teams, but that group teams should be opened up if one participates in an animal welfare programme. Does the Council of State have any opinion on how many or how much percentage of the mink fur farms that can maintain the team based on the decision now being taken? Or does not the proposal, which is currently being adopted, in practice imply any difference in relation to what the government proposes — according to the Council of State’s statement that it is essentially the same decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1510	Today, the majority imposes a general ban. I'm going to think about that. Then we're going to work on the regulatory design. But it's strange to right the argument of the Labour Party, because they're on both sides of the debate at the same time. Now they argue that if only one imposes a ban on the group, it is good enough animal welfare. But that doesn't mean the Working Party. They will, on the contrary, liquidate the industry, no matter what we propose today. So at least one must clear up this debate. I mean the proposal adopted today by the Storting will ensure a ban at the bottom. If one is part of an animal welfare programme, an operation must be of as good and sufficiently low risk as one would have had a ban — in the fur farms that then escape it. It will be a significant risk-reducing grip for Norwegian fur animals. It's important to me, and it's important for the great majority. Therefore, I am satisfied that we are landing such a solution today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1519	What the Workers' Party is saying is that we are going for a guided winding-up, and on the basis of our argument, this winding-up of the team is not economically sound and sustainable for the industry, and – as was said in the hearing – that the industry will then have an uncontrolled winding-up. My question is, once again, is there a difference between what the Storting decides, and what the Council of State has proposed? Because it is essential for the industry to know what economic conditions will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1526	The answer to the last one is yes. There is a difference between what I first proposed, and the majority of people voted today. As a minority government, we are obliged to seek solutions, and we have done so in this matter. In general, however, there is a general ban, but there is some flexibility for those who are able to maintain adequate animal welfare through a welfare programme in the run-up to the ban. Nor is it the case that there are hearings from the Biggest People who have placed the Workers' Party where they are today — that is, the national meeting decision. It is one of the few challenges we have today, that many of us are debating this matter, have been in a position to address this issue in advance, without considering the substance contained in the government's proposal today, which is in the position of the majority. That seems to me to be a pity – especially for the many fur farmers who either only run with fur animals or run in combination with other agricultural productions, that one does not take their interests more seriously than it does well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1533	Before the debate started today, my question would be a bit banous, but when one listens to the debate, a few impressions may be that there is a ban on group membership, which is the government's policy, and what one has put forward a communication on. In my view, it's part of a wellness system. I just want to challenge the Council of State at one point: Is there a ban on group-holding that is government's fur policy, or is it robust development, as described by NOW, Storing Message and now setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1538	It is primarily robust development based on adequate animal welfare, with a low enough risk for the fur animals. It adds the whole message by saying very clearly that there should be a basis for it. We have tried to collect multiple numbers for that in Stortinget, too, that there should be a basis for furthering Norwegian fur breeding, but there must be sufficient good animal welfare – there will be a tight grip on it in this message – and there must be a low level of risk. What I mean is that the Storting today solves in a satisfactory way when a general ban is used, and says that if one is not to be covered by the ban – as one well-introduced – a better animal welfare than we do today, with measurable criteria and sufficiently low damage potential. What I mean is a good way to balance the concerns, and the government is therefore satisfied that we are essentially getting multiple numbers for the grips that we propose for today's fur nutrition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1543	The Council of State says that the government is essentially getting an impact here today. It's tempting to ask if it wouldn't be nice to get full penetration, as I realize that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party support the main line of government that one should have further operations, and that there are multiples to impose a ban on group holding of mink. It should be preferable for a government council. I want to go a little further on that track, because what is highlighted in the debate as arguments from the Right and the Progress Party for the spin-off when it comes to decrease is that there is new information, which it is called – one has learned more. Then I would like to ask: what is the basic work done here by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food? Is there any actor who was listening here in Stortinget, who was not in contact with in the preparation of the message? Is there any argument here that had not been made when the Dale Government Council proposed a ban on the grouping of mink, without exception?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1549	No, basically, my evaluations in this big message are based on the audio recordings that came, after the hearing of the NOU, and my own assessments from both the ministry and me, of what is needed to ensure a sustainable development in fur management with adequate animal welfare and low enough risk. It may well be that Stortinget has assessed something different than what I have done. I have respect for that in that case, but in some cases I feel that there is little new. In sum, I also feel that we are essentially getting through. It sounds like we're not currently implementing a ban on teamkeeping, but we're doing it. We're essentially establishing a ban on group ownership, and one must, through a proprietary program, show sufficient evidence that a group member can maintain the animal welfare that we demand for those who don't have a group, in order to be allowed to continue. That makes me think that these matters are taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1554	Now is the time to show how big these exceptions are, as the majority of the population and the committee configuration say nothing about the level of this animal welfare. I'm allowed to take the council of state on the floor. If he doesn't see that it's de facto a prohibition, I assume that here the department is going to lay such strong leadership that that's what we're talking about. At least that's my hope. But I want to ask you another question. It is clear in the message and in the settings that evaluations from the Pediatrics, Food and Drug Administration and others are that one has not reached the animal welfare targets set in the message from 2003 – they have not been reached. However, the Ministry and the Council of State write that we are on the right track. You can always say that. But then my question is, what if one still hasn't achieved these goals in a few years? Would you like to get a new release, with a broken multiple, or is it really not supposed to achieve these goals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1561	It's definitely the idea that these targets should be achieved, but I don't think we are when they if the Storting's minority today spend all its time in the years to come undermining the vast majority that are now establishing themselves. Because we actually need to be careful for the players to make investments. Some of them have to convert their output. Two of them have to take down their pet number. There's actually a lot of grips they're going to take. If the uncertainty that the Left and others are trying to contribute to this discussion gets to live, it is harder to reach the goal. I believe that the majority of people also have to decide what they are actually concerned about. Are they aware that when the bulk of the population decides that we should continue the basis for this industry, it should be done with the best possible animal welfare, or should a talk be based on a primary desire for liquidation? That's the dilemma here. I think we all have to take responsibility for being clear about what kind of commitments the industry now has to stick to. It did the government, and it does the big crowd today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1566	The majority of people in the main hall today are going to have a continuation of fur farming in Norway. There are also clear tightenings that this majority has put themselves behind. We have been concerned that we are now imposing a ban on group teams of mink. To get an exception for this group team, you have to be part of an animal welfare program. It takes a year to see if you can get involved in it, because it has something to do with the decrease's biological clock. But my question is when such a program can be in place. In the setting, we say that the authorities need to have some time to design. [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1573	I'll be able to get in touch with actors from the industry soon after this debate, whether it's the Pelsa Team, the Bond Team or other actors, to ask for suggestions from them on indicators. Then I'm going to make a self-assessment of them measured against the statements the Storting has made today. The size indicates that the authorities must both approve and verify the requirements that have been laid down. It gives us good opportunity to design legislation that provides both adequate animal welfare and low risk. It will be a priority work in the department. That's two things. It is also necessary, based on this, to introduce a general ban on group ownership. It will also require a lot of work. I will return to Stortinget as soon as we have an overview of progress in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1578	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1586	I am very pleased that a majority in the Grand Duchy today adopts a sustainable development of fur animal nutrition. There are strict demands for animal welfare, which I believe should be an example of how we can stimulate good animal welfare also in other animal husbandry. By allowing keepers who can demonstrate good animal welfare to continue holding groups of minks, we provide carrots that stimulate the care of their animals. As late as 2011, changes were made to the regulations for keeping fur animals. Large investments were made in better installations. All animals have received frost-free irrigation facilities and activity objects. An important basis for the amendment of the Regulation was the 2008 Scientific Committee on Food Safety, which said: ‘Positive consequences of group teams have also been identified as minor fur rodents and minor stereotypes and less protected aggression.’ Furnace nutrition is the only animal husbandry that has made stricter requirements for itself than the applicable legislation and has its own certification system. It gives itself, among other things. imposes a maximum of two reduction per cage on herds which do not comply with the requirements of FarmSert and require their own veterinary supervision outside the supervision of the Food Safety Authority. Food surveillance has also had a particularly stringent control regime for the follow-up of fur animal nutrition, but has not found any more fractures in fur animal nutrition than in other animal husbandry. I will claim to know the fur industry well after more than 20 years as a full-time and part-time practitioner in districts with large numbers of fur animals. All animals shall be treated with respect and have a housing that gives them the experience of having it well. This means that they should have food and shelter, they should be healthy and harmless and be able to live with their behavior as best they can. Good animal welfare is about so much more than direct wounds and injuries. Sometimes it's actually better for both animals and owners to use mechanical devices to fix animals so that they get calmer. It gives less stress than people having to hold on to them. This is done, for example: by insemination of all animal species. That's why I'm very pleased that the majority of people offer opportunities to use instruments in different interventions, which actually provide better animal welfare than if you didn't get access to it. We must not lose sight of the fact that etiology is about how animals themselves perceive that they live their lives. It's not about how we feel about the animals. That an animal thrives and has it well, is shown by that it grows, has good fur, is fertile, has confidence in humans and does not have elevated values of stress hormone in the body. Studies on stress hormones in fur animals show that the level is no higher than that of other farmed animals. It's not going to mean that we're not going to go on working to make the animals even better, and it's going to apply to all animal husbandry. But perhaps the most important factor in facilitating good animal welfare is to ensure that the industry is economically sustainable and provide predictability. I hope we can do that through the decisions we are making today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1606	In this discussion, we get the impression that it says about Norway when it's all about fur keeping ahead, which is not a reality at all. But if animal husbandry were to be established, Norway would be one of a few countries with a control system that lasts for animal welfare and has regular control over the respect of the law. So, the reality is that if a person ceases to feed fur here to land, it will continue to increase in countries where animal welfare is significantly more challenging. This is the reality, and a country with 1 per million of the world's population is not determining whether there should still be fur animal husbandry in the world. And yes, it has our example here to land that animal welfare has not been as we could expect, but then it has been taken into account, and we expect that a further focus is still very much on this within all animal husbandry. Unfortunately, it has also been the tragedy of different kinds in other animal husbandry, and great suffering has been detected, yet we have not seen demands for the closure of whole nutrients. But let me stress that animal husbandry is important, and a joint committee agrees that it should be in a defensive and good way. This nutritional activity of fur farming has been largely driven in nutrient-poor rural areas in our long-range country. As a representative of More and Romesdal, I have visited facilities several times, and I think in particular of a visit to Hjørundfjord where the owner proudly showed his crew. Hjørundfjorden is in the company of Geirangerfjorden of great interest also in the tourism industry, especially through cruise ship visits along the fjord. They experience well-stocked gardens along the fjord, where one manages to keep his livelihood through gardening and fur keeping, without there being any other alternative. When the Labour Party wants to put down this industry, I ask: what is the alternative in a steep li where one has the fjord below, as in, for example. Hjørundfjorden and parts of Geirangerfjorden? No one. Regrowth and removal will be the result when work disappears, and gradually the values represented by these curtains through the cultural landscape will disappear and become less attractive to travel as well. This means that there are contexts that cannot be overlooked. Then it's also that it's about feeling up to a legal and important nourishment for many. Let me just make sure right away that this is a legitimate industry, in the layers of many others that contain animal husbandry. But as a consumer is free to use the market power of saying by not buying clothes with fur. As a society, we are increasingly removing ourselves from reality, and more and more people believe that food and pay come from an activity rather than a computer. To some extent, this is right, but what one experiences from the computer and from Facebook and similar social networks is not always anchored in reality, which we could see through the Kendis-Farm, where we saw that a slaughtered pig, and it created huge riots.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1621	A bit of engagement is as powerful as animal welfare. We also look at the involvement in this case. It arouses feelings, even the minds of some, because the majority position does not give the desired outcome to the fur resistance, namely the closure of the industry in Norway. But if we put our feelings aside and look at the facts, we see that hardly any country on a global scale will have a stricter regulation and a stronger relationship with animal welfare than we do after the adoption of today's majority voting. And just animal welfare is important for the Progress Party. That's why we've been working for years for the establishment of our own animal police here to land. Finally, we have had a positive impact. I believe that maintaining the fur animal industry is subject to even more stringent provisions and with a general ban on group teams is not a contradiction to this. Because it is important to stress that with a few very few exceptions, we have skilled and serious fur breeders in Norway. Compared to the Norwegian legislation and the strict official controls on the industry, Norwegian fur production is among the best in the world. Demand for fur products is increasing on the world market, and then it may be worth recalling that 99 pst. of the mink and 98 pst. the fox is reared outside the borders of Norway. A total ban in Norway will therefore have little to say about the totality of world fur production. Then I am more comfortable with the fact that we are continuing an industry that operates responsibly, under strict control and with a continuous focus on animal welfare, which I myself believe I have seen, among other things. through a visit to a fur farmer in Hallingdal, in Buskerud, which is the county I represent. I am reasonably sure that if we ban fur farming in Norway, production will only move to other countries with more liberal legislation and less control, and where animal welfare has a lot worse condition. I think it's a thought that says 'out of sight, out of mind', and it doesn't solve any problems, but it might make someone feel like they've washed their hands and got a better conscience. It is also important to stress that fur animal nutrition is economically viable, is district-based, and is an internationally competitive export industry capable of securing jobs and the economy for several farms. That's about. 245 fur farms in Norway, half of which also have other agricultural production. It shows that animal feed is also important for many, by contributing to the possibility for farmers on smaller farms in rural areas to use the farm resource base, which in turn increases employment and value creation in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1630	I understand that the representative Grimstad has taken a look at the Kendis-Farm and that we are moving further and further away from our roots through Facebook etc. I have not seen the Kendis-Farm, I do not know when it is intended to find a place, but I can say that in that case it must be a good piece out in the 20th century before any fur animal operation should be there. It's not like our roots in agriculture are growing mink and reefs and selling fur lockers to China. This is a rather new industry in Norway – for good reason. I note that the main argument from those from the Right and the Progress Party who are up here and argue with quite strong pathos about why it is so important to carry on with this is that one has it in other countries, so there the need will be met. It's a bit of a variation of the argument that if Norway doesn't pump up the most possible oil and gas, others will do it instead. There is a better argument, because the need for energy is quite great and still. But one should be good on the right side to think that the need for fur lockers is kind of a constant factor. In Norwegian fur industry, a rather fierce marketing is driving to sell their products, including: in China. Of course, it is allowed to do so, but it is not such that a loss of Norwegian production is automatically filled by others. I want to add that there is not so much difference in the way one produces fur animals in Norway and in other countries. There is also no reason to believe that a follow the logic of those who are up here, because it is said that by definition it is good animal welfare because the fur becomes fine – then it must be good animal welfare. Well, how will other countries sell their fur if they don't have good animal welfare? This is not a matter of intervention – to borrow the Minister of Agriculture's words. A point was made that Stortinget never asked for a cage not to operate. This is so far correct, but what is in the setting is ‘The Ministry notes that both the selection of fur animals and the Food Safety Authority consider that there are still welfare challenges in Norwegian fur animal husbandry and that the lack of documented alternative modes of operation, without the use of netting cages, has made it difficult to significantly improve animal welfare as requested by the Animal Welfare Communication.’ So of course, a draw gets its own conclusions from it: is this really an admission that with such an operation we will never achieve these measures? It could be of interest to the Minister of Agriculture's point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1648	I have to say that it was basically quite illustrative: I have to admit that it is not so often I saw myself down and watch TV, but when I saw on Kendis-Farmen that one was going to drive a garden, and one came to the piece when one had to slaughter the animals to survive, and it became so difficult because one was happy in their animals, that was the opposite. We know that every farmer who drives a garden is happy in his animals. They too, most of them who have fur animals, are happy in their animals and show them with pride. That was my point with the visits I had to Hjørundfjorden, and the example from Hjørundfjorden that I drew up. They are happy in their animals, they show a well-stocked garden, they show animals that apparently have it very well. I am not a veterinarian, but it also has our veterinarians who have had the word today and who say that this is essentially going well. Then we have a few exceptions, as it is also in other industries. We've seen tragedy where the entire crew has grown all over the booth, but there's no requirement for one to reduce the milk production or the meat production of the same thing. What's my point is that one can't generalize within one part of a sector and say that this should be dropped because it's unethical, and because animal welfare isn't taken care of, when one knows that this is a legitimate industry. This is a industry that is basically driven in a proper and proper way. Respect for those who are driving is also challenged. I understand that for those who are fur keepers when these poor specimens come out, it's painful to represent the industry, but fortunately it's the exception. As I said, this reflects a lot of emotion. And once again, if we don't want fur keeping to be a part of everyday life, each one of us does the best through the power that we as consumers have - let's buy clothes with fur collar, let's buy fur lockers, etc. That's the best way to do it. Again, I argued that this industry, like other animal husbandry, is being driven in a way that ensures that animal welfare is maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1660	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1745	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No 3-5, by Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA Proposals Nos. In the course of the debate, 4 and 5 from the Greens/Greens/EFA have been converted into proposals for transmission. Proposal No. 4 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the government, as part of the implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals where we commit ourselves to ‘by 2030, half the share of food losses per capita, both in retail trade and among consumers, and to reduce losses in the production and supply chain, including post-harvest losses’, implement appropriate measures to increase people’s knowledge of food waste and its prevention’. Proposal No. 5 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the government, as part of the implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals, ensure that food loss prevention is included in the main field of ‘food and consumption’ in the curriculum of primary education and health.’ The President will propose that the proposals be submitted to the Government without any justification. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the development of new technologies and packaging that can help reduce food waste.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1788	President! I voted right, but I got up. So in case someone supported me, I ask for new voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1793	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1805	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to implement an awareness campaign to increase consumers’ knowledge of food waste and its prevention.’ The Central Party, the Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1822	There is a vote on proposal No. 3 by the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that, in particular, in the investigation of a food law, measures are considered to prevent full-scale food of uncertain size or shape being thrown into the value chain from the manufacturer to the store.’ Those who vote against the proposal are asked to stand up. That means everyone gets up except the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1832	President! We have announced during the debate that this proposal can be supported. [[Consented in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1837	So let's do it again. Those who support the proposal are happy to sit still. Those who are opposed are getting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1888	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Odd Omland on behalf of the Workers' Party, Left and Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Sveinung Rotevatern on behalf of Left There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a ban on group teams of minks, as outlined in the government’s own report on gross domestic product.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Socialist Left will support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1914	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Left and the Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘During 2017, the Government requests the promotion of the Stortinget’s own case of guided closure of the fur animal industry and to ensure that the necessary means of conversion for the establishment of new agricultural activities based on farm resources are made available during the liquidation period.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e1946	The Labour Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-10.ana.ud437e2072	Then the matters on the current map have been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
