ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e25	The representative of Snorre Serigstad Valen is applying for leave on 25 and 26 April to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e45	The representative, Mr Sigbjørn Tuskedal, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e50	On behalf of the big business representative, Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to make a proposal on other forms of reaction than expulsion in the event of a breach of the Foreign Affairs Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e55	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e60	On behalf of Rigmor Andersen Eide, Hans Fredrik Grovevan, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative to step up efforts to exploit children in human trafficking.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e65	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e70	On behalf of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e75	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e91	On Wednesday 12 April, the Stortinget received a communication from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e100	Work is the key to so much in people's lives – own income, support our closest, equality, integration, to mention something. Before Easter, the government’s briefing came, and it told us something about the importance of work for Norway’s further development. It documented how our future ability to finance well-being in our country depends on work. It's more important than the oil. We don't live by the work of others in our country, we live by each other's work, and the sustainability of our model depends on as many as possible being at work. That is why we must combat unemployment. But it's something more and fundamentally more serious we have to face than the fight against unemployment alone. The proportion of people at work is now falling in Norway, and it continues on that course. While other countries affected by the financial crisis are experiencing an increase in employment, it has only continued to decline since 2013 from over 78pst. by us in work in 2008 to under 74 pst. today. It's very alarming. So we feel that the number of people who are unemployed is going up, and that the number of people who are at work is going down. Before the 2013 elections, Erna Solberg was concerned about all those who were outside the labour market and said that a new government should ‘release the human talent in Norway’. The government has failed. In 2013, Norway had the third highest employment rate among OECD countries. We could give lectures all over Europe that we had a lot of people working. Now we're in the 9's place and on our way down. The OECD also shows that in particular men in their best working age are now excluded. So their talent is not being used. My question is, how does Solberg explain that her policy does not work when it comes to keeping people in work?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e113	Let me begin by saying that I fully agree with the representative Gahr Støre that work is important. Work is important for the state and finances and for the development of well-being in the future, but it is also extremely important for the individual. We now know a lot about how important work is in social context, how important it is to get mastery feelings and experiences. For this reason, it is important that as many people as possible get to work and that as many as possible have a connection with the labour market. That's why I'm also worried about the developments we've seen since 2008, at a falling employment rate. In 2008, there was a very high number, a high number in terms of labour immigration and other but high levels of employment. However, we have seen a steady decline in employment in Norway since 2008. Of what was last summer – approx. 4.6 pst. decrease in employment rate – 3,3 pst. under the previous government. So there's nothing new about this happening. Therefore, the leader of the LO has also been very clear that since 2010–2011 we have created too few jobs in relation to the number of people. Therefore, this is a common challenge that is important for all of us to address. Economic and structural issues are at the heart of the decline in employment. And as we know, we've been through a recession created by a special oil price shock in the Norwegian economy. We have lost many jobs in a sector that has driven growth in the future, while we have created new jobs in other parts, but not in the same room. But the employment rate began to fall under the previous government and fell by 3.3 pst. from the peak year 2008. Structural changes take place, among others: That we're becoming an older population. This means that the employment rate is decreasing because there are several older people in the part we're calculating. But I agree that we have to do a lot to reverse this in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e124	There was at least nothing here about what the Prime Minister thinks is important to do. I agree that there is a common problem, for the whole of society is affected. I think the social partners are important here, but it is now the Prime Minister who is responsible for these four years. She said this was a main thing for her in 2013. Development has continued in a negative direction. I think it's important things to do here with familiar tools, but there's also a need to go new ways. For what happens when young men in their 30s – up to 20 pst. of which – standing without work? Does it have anything to do with knowledge and qualifications? It has something to do with understanding the technological change to do, the link between our educational institutions and the labour market – a wide range of instruments. It also has something to do with unprofessional conditions in parts of our working life, which causes some people to turn away from the labour market. I'm not really asking for a joint analysis of the importance of work. I think we agree on that. The question is that the Prime Minister, at the loss of his period, really has no policy to meet the very alarming sign that the employment rate continues to fall in Norway, as opposed to very many other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e133	The representative Gahr Støre is completely wrong when he says that the government has no policy for this. We have had policies for this from day one since we entered the government offices. We have doubled the appropriations allocated to Competence pluss, which is an action that helps people in working life to strengthen their skills so that they can remain in working life – just to ensure that when the major technological changes come, yes, people are better equipped to do so. We have changed many of the labour market measures. We use wage subsidies more. We have made many changes in structural measures, and there is an interesting difference in the outsourcing of the labour market that occurred under the red-green government, and the one that has happened now. The output of the labour market under the red-green government was against health-related benefits. More and more of them went over to that kind of scheme. Under this government, a few more people have probably retreated, among other things. There are several young people who do not have part-time jobs when studying — they are full-time students because it is a difficult labour market. It is therefore important to be aware of what is cyclical and what is structural. We have to grab both of them. Fortunately, the time off goes down a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e138	There will be follow-up questions – first Day Terje Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e143	I heard with interest that the Prime Minister said that less should have changed to health-related benefits, but the most recent actual figures we have show that the number of people on disability, which is a health-related benefit, has increased by 4 pst. In particular for young people, the rate of disability has increased by 37 pst over the last two years. And then the prime minister stands here and says that the share of health-related benefits goes down. However, the question raised by the representative Gahr Støre concerned the worrying developments, such as: is pointed out by the vice-president of the Eika Group, Jan Ludvig Andreassen, who says that yes, now Norway really has a problem, because the employment rate is falling. But it's like the number of people going to work every day is going down, and it's the first time in a very long time – last year: 11,000 fewer people go to work every day. Not just the proportion, but the number of people at work goes down. Does the Council of State agree that it is a difficult challenge for Norwegian society that we will soon have to deal with?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e150	We have taken this into account from day one, but we have undergone a major cyclical change, and the Labour Party is now consistently pursuing a policy in which, as if we have not had the biggest oil price shock in the Norwegian economy, and that it has had a meaning. Of course, it matters when we lose 50,000 jobs in oil-related areas. That is why we have a cyclical challenge, and then we have a structural challenge. As for the figures for what is health-related, I'm going to be allowed to send them over to the representative Andersen, because he doesn't believe in the prime minister when she says it from the Parliament's pulpit. So what's happening now is that there's more of them that's drawn out. We need better numbers to know if we're going to tackle it, but we have increased competence, we've increased pay subsidies, we've shifted the youth effort, so we have a more targeted youth effort. We have a long list of measures we have put in place, precisely to address those who are weakest in the labour market, so that no cyclical change will become a permanent exit from the labour market, as we have seen during previous periods of unemployment when the Labour Party has been running. Then you have been outside the labour market for a long time. This government has an active policy to prevent it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e157	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e162	We are several parties that can stress that work is important – despite all the important things. When you compare with e.g. Oil income, which many think is extremely important, is much more important because human capital is much more important. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important in this period to bet on early efforts. I think you have to do something to get e.g. these prime hours workers to which the Workers' Party refers must be prevented from dropping out of school. It is one of the most important things — teacher involvement early in school, follow-up of those who start to work at school, and, not least, increasing the amount of the apprenticeship grant in order to increase the number of apprentices at work. We have been involved in entrepreneurial grants, in seed capital to start new businesses and not least in being able to do something to secure the jobs that are there. In any case, my point is that this is a broad range of measures that are important to re-establish employment. Now we are on the brink of this period and are entering a new one, the Prime Minister is going to elections and is absolutely sure that this will be one of the most important measures. Therefore, I challenge the Prime Minister: what is the most important thing she will do to increase employment when she is faced with a new period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e170	I agree that there are two sets of measures that need to be taken to address this challenge. One is cyclical measures and the other is structural measures. So one of them is investing in creating more jobs. The government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left on the Biggest, has done a great deal for that. We have also done a lot for business start-ups, for business activities and for better tax framework conditions, which means that we now see more jobs coming in the private sector. We see that there are increased investments in industry. There's a lot of positive signs, and luckily, unemployment is going down at the moment. The second part is to ensure that it is invested in people, and we have done so through a number of changes in labour market measures. For example, the obligation to work for young beneficiaries of social assistance is: in order to prevent entering a sphere where being outside the labour market actually causes one to lose one’s own ability and self-confidence to do so. We have Competence plus – and it is important that we look at both of these measures. We must both create jobs and strengthen individuals through education, by following them up if they fall out, and by better focusing on mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e177	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e182	It is a fact that participation in employment is declining. It weakens people's ability to stand on their own economics, and it weakens our ability to finance our collective welfare schemes. People from new EU countries in Central and Eastern Europe currently account for more than 200,000 people and have been at the forefront of employment growth in Norway since 2008. The employment rate in the rest of the population has been slightly reduced. Norway is currently in a situation where the supply of labour is higher than the demand for labour and thus more people withdraw from the labour market. Is it possible to increase the participation of workers in the free movement of workers from the EEA countries with high unemployment rates and far worse pay and working conditions than Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e189	Yes, it is fully possible to increase professional participation even though we are part of the free movement of labour within EU countries, but it is a matter of making sure that people are qualified for the jobs that are available. What we are now seeing is that those with the greatest challenges in the labour market are young men with low formal qualifications. That's why we've put so much emphasis on making sure they can fill the formal skills. That's why we've said we're introducing an adult right where once you've completed your secondary education, you don't have the waiting period you've had before, so it's possible to come back and take a vocational education, become an apprentice, have a few formal qualifications. That is why so many of our labour market measures are targeted at just the youth group that we see need to fill skills, and that is why we, among other things, are. has made a new youth effort that we have rolled out first in the five states that have had the greatest need for it. It is important to say that we have to do two things: we have to create more jobs, but at the same time we have to make sure that people are qualified for the jobs that are created. It requires more competence in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e196	Pål Farstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e201	One of the most alarming trends is that there is an increasing proportion of men aged 25–55 who fall out of work, as the Prime Minister has also been here. One of the main reasons for this is that there are a number of jobs that previously employed this group, which are rapidly phased out. Our common challenge is to create new jobs and opportunities for them. In the view of the Left, such an option should be to make it easier to start on its own. The problem is that too many people feel that they are too squirmed and too uncertain to do just that. Over the last few weeks, the Left has promoted a number of proposals in the UK on improvements for self-employed people. It concerns simplification, tax rules and a better social security network. The question is: does the Prime Minister agree that it makes sense to facilitate more people to start their own business and can the Left count on the government's support for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e208	We fully agree that it is important that more start their own business. The fact that more people become self-employed is not an end in itself, because I believe that what Norway needs most of all is several new growing businesses that employ more people, i.e. not just a sole proprietorship, but a larger enterprise. Maybe that's where our biggest hole is that we don't have enough growth businesses in the new areas. But when it comes to the question that those who leave the labour market are men between 25 and 55 years old, and the answer there is to create their own business, I'm not sure it's targeted and met. It is good for the Norwegian economy that there are more people who do it, but there I think we actually have to look in their eyes that there is a mix of individual factors related to mental health, the skills needs and the skills challenges they have. When the job changes, they can't keep up with the job change, or if their business is shut down, they don't have the qualifications of other companies. Therefore, it is important that we put in place both labour market measures and systems to do something about adult skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e215	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e220	The longer we get in the period, the better the Prime Minister gets to blame for everyone else. There's at least one area where the shape curve goes up. That should be the opposite, of course, because the longer Erna Solberg has been Prime Minister, the more responsible she is for the reality she is set to rule over. It's strange that it's going to be so hard to admit. There is a close link between the growing inequality of power and wealth in our country and the fact that too many remain on the sidelines of working life. I have noticed that the Right in connection with a coming party meeting is now very excited to tell you about all the negative effects on employment it would be if you were to think about, for example. to increase the level of taxation close to what it was before Erna Solberg took over. I wonder if the security around the negative effects of tax increases means that Erna Solberg can now prove a positive effect on the employment of the reduced wealth tax, or is it still just the most expensive blow of the time in the air?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e227	I understand that it is painful for red-green politicians who have now boasted of how amazing everything was on the labour market during their period, that I point out that the greatest fall in the employment rate occurred in the last four years of the Red-Green politicians' time. However, if we are to have a different analysis and well targeted action, we need to know what is the background, what is the cause, and what is the picture related to this, and then it is important to say that even in a period before the oil price drop, before the biggest cyclical change we have experienced in Norway for a long, long time, the employment rate in Norway fell because we did not have well enough targeted measures. It should be understood that there is a need for stronger structural measures, measures of competence — and understanding it. In terms of tax relief, I believe that when we need both to create new jobs and to provide skills and raise for people who need changes, tax will be the wrong answer. If we are to increase the specific taxation of Norwegian workplaces, there will be fewer jobs – simple and straightforward.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e234	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e240	The tragic events of July 22, 2011, showed that Norway as a society was not sufficiently foreshadowed by a terrorist attack. Afterwards, we have learned how important it is to coordinate resources better, how important it is to achieve good police and defence cooperation, and how important it is that societal critical objects are well secured. Prime Minister Solberg took hold when she took over. The Prime Minister created a national emergency and security element at the Prime Minister's office, and the government platform was clear: security and preparedness should be prioritised, Norway should be safer. However, there is still a serious lack of security in Norway. The Court of Auditors' judgment is harsh. Important objects are not certain, and failure can pose a danger to life and health. Each government must take such a judgment from the Riksrevision in the utmost seriousness. The Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Defence have not ensured that police and defence cooperation is strengthened and enhanced, as the Stortinget has stated. Important measures to ensure good cooperation and preparation have not been implemented. The National Audit Service believes that it is likely that neither the police nor the Defense, together or separately, will be able to exercise adequate protection of important objects in a threat situation. At the same time, the Riksrevision writes in its unupgraded report that the government does not provide an adequate explanation as to why the work on object protection and basic protection is not given the necessary priority. My question is therefore: was this image of the object protection drawn by the Riksrevision, known to the Prime Minister, or was there new knowledge received by the Prime Minister through the report of the Riksrevision?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e249	It is that when we joined, we started working on object protection and what challenges it was. The challenges we then saw for ourselves were something different from those that the Riksrevision has examined. First of all, we saw that there were too few civilian objects that were reported, and that there was too little cooperation. That's why we made changes in two steps. One was amendments to the Security Act adopted in Stortinget last year. Then we set up the Traavik committee, which has proposed a whole new safety law, which makes it clearer what kind of objects in the civil sector are to be reported, and what requirements are to be set for that reporting. What the Riksrevision has done is to review the basic security based on the regulations adopted by the previous government, of individual objects within the direct responsibilities of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence and where the police will be. The Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence were familiar with some challenges, but the government as such was not familiar with the picture of the overall challenges. In the case of individual areas, we also deal with them in the Government Security Committee. In particular, the safety of government agencies — i.e. the government quarter, the size of the population, other areas — is being reviewed to be safe in these areas. But it was only when we received the preliminary report from the Riksrevision that I believe the Ministry of Justice was aware that the first report they had received was that it was okay, not right – they have done great follow-up actions after that – and the government was jointly informed that we had done too bad a job. Therefore, major actions were put in place in spring and autumn 2016 to implement the measures that had not been implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e256	I thank you for the answer, which also shows that not everything is as it should have been in this area. It is also serious that the Riksaudition has produced a summary that was meant for the public. The Christian People's Party believes that the government should have allowed the publication of that report. At the same time, we have respect for the warrants for classified information in the security laws, and we think it would be to cross a line if the Storting were to publish classified information against the government's will. Because if the Storting takes ownership of secret government documents, the result can actually be less openness and no more. It must be equal to practice, and respect for the law of security must be equal to whether it's a plural government as its own, or whether it's a minority government. But I have to ask this question to the Prime Minister when it concerns the secrecy of the Riksrevision summary, because it can be perceived as an attempt to avoid and avoid criticism of the information. It may seem like this secret is because one is afraid of the criticism that lies here?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e263	It is not that there has been a lack of criticism in this matter, and the criticism of the Riksrevision is well known. The criticism of the National Audit Office is well known and well documented in all the country's newspapers in this matter, so it's not that the government has managed to avoid any inconvenience with it, but that's not the background either. I also respect the provisions of the Security Act, which says that it is the relevant authority, here the Ministry of Defence, which is responsible for assessing what is classified material, and what is not classified material. They have made a clear professional assessment that this is classified material, which they believe cannot be published as the Riksrevision has done. We don't do another assessment of that from the rest of the government. Then we had to have our own state council, and it would, in my opinion, be a completely unreasonable mistrust of the Ministry of Defence's assessment of these questions. I believe that the Security Act is precisely why we should not politicise these questions, even if I see that there has been a bit of discussion about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e268	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Line Henriette Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e273	As politicians, it is our responsibility to provide security and security for the citizens. Then securing critical objects in society is absolutely central. One of the main points mentioned in the National Audit Office’s report is the lack of coordination between the police and the defence. The National Auditor uses the term «serious weaknesses» to describe the cooperation between these two departments. My question to the Prime Minister is then: How could this kind of failure in coordination between the Defence and Object Security Police have been picked up earlier by the government and then also been resolved at a time earlier than in the autumn of 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e278	Firstly, the government has worked a lot on the issue of police-defence cooperation in general. We believe that it has significantly improved in the context of preparedness. In areas other than this, we believe that we have made simplified procedures for assistance, and we have made our own Røksund selection in order to establish a new instruction for maritime counter-terrorism, which has been among the major issues in the conflict between what should be the responsibility of defence and the police, respectively. What is important is that we have supervisory bodies in these areas that should have the opportunity and the power to go in and look at how cooperation actually works, and make recommendations. In addition, of course, it is the responsibility of the government and the government to follow up on the fact that we have good cooperation between these areas. Once the Riksrevision has documented this, it means that the government attaches great importance to ensuring that the Riksrevision findings are corrected as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e285	Jette F. Christensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e290	This is not a secret government document that Stortinget will downgrade, it is a document from Stortinget's Supervisory Board, which the Riksrevision will publish itself, but which is stopped by the government. It's a very strange situation, all the time a lot of this has already been in the paper. The size cannot discuss why Storting's will has not been followed up. Does the Prime Minister think that the Riksrevision is irresponsible? Does not the Prime Minister think that it would be best for the Storting to discuss why it has been so late, and why not the will of the Storting after July 22 has been fulfilled? All that time so much of this is already out, can't we be allowed to discuss this openly in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e297	All the information is in Stortinget. The entire classified report, which no one proposes to be degraded, is in Stortingen, for the work of the Control and Constitutional Committee. There is nothing in this case that prevents Storting from going deep, looking at what has happened, going into the details. For the time being, someone has chosen to make this a question of just following the Safety Act and grading. It is fully possible to go into all the questions, far down in it, to do the job the Stortinget is assigned to, to control the government. It has to be clear. No one is preventing the Storting from going into detail, with detailed questions, but it can't be in the open room, because it will weaken our security. I assume that when a broad majority in this process have adopted a safety law with a clear and clear division of responsibilities as to who decides the graduation issue, who owns the information, and who makes the safety assessments in Norway, it is considered and there is a responsibility placed. Then it's the body that owns the information, and that's what the government follows up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e304	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e310	Willingness becomes more important, and it's not good at this. We know that when we sit on the control committee. But the Riksrevision's report on object protection is confidential, and the government won't degrade it. Therefore, the size in plenary does not know the reality of the failure of the object protection. These include key military objects, which are important, and not least civil key objects related to electricity and communications, which are essential for the functioning of society. The central party believes that we need to increase the security of people, and the key objects need to be secured. My question is: Will the Prime Minister ensure that the defence points out the necessary civil key objects and enables the Home Protection to secure and protect these key objects?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e317	I fully agree with the representative's post that important objects should be secured. That's why we, among other things, have made a proposal for a new Security Act coming to Stortinget to ensure that we have good security methods also in the civil sector for items that are important. Securing may take place in several ways. It can happen through physical security, through security forces to be there in crisis and conflict, but perhaps the most important safeguard in a new and vulnerable society is to have good cybersecurity. There are many of the threats that appear today. That's why we do things both where we keep objects, how we handle them, and other security mechanisms, and we make sure that civilian sectors that are critical have enough redundancy – because you can't, for example. in the case of the electricity system, calculate that the Home Protection System shall ensure all parts thereof. You have to create a system that is robust enough to hold it in a crisis or in a conflict, and make sure that there is no cyber vulnerability there, as we have seen in other countries related to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e324	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e329	In 2013, we could hear from the Right that Norway would be a safer country with Erna Solberg as Prime Minister. Right-wing Notified: ‘The operating centre had been better rusted, the crew had been better and the helicopter had been previously in the air.’ The Prime Minister — the one then before him — himself said that ‘management is an important part of the conclusion of the Gjørv report’. She followed up by saying, ‘I note that the July 22 report was a crushing report on how the Norwegian society is governed.’ Now the same Prime Minister is standing on the floor of Stortinget and says that the government has done too bad a job. The contrast could not have been greater, so I wonder if the Prime Minister would like to reflect a little on the contrast between his own slip security in 2013 and the Prime Minister we see today, who won't even let an open big deal discuss the matter in its full breadth.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e344	I think we always have to admit that preparedness can be better in areas. In one area we have not done a good enough job, and I think it is honest to admit that we should have come further with object protection. But we've done a lot of the big grips, which makes us better equipped for object protection in the future. One of the conflicts that was under the previous government, which was at the beginning of our government, was just about which civil areas are going to be covered by this, and what requirements are being imposed if it comes under the Security Act. That's why there's going to be a new safety law, which is important to make sure that in the future we also have a broader object protection and a better protection of vital institutions. Otherwise, I would like to say that I stand for Norway as a safer country today than it was in 2011. I said that both the previous government and this government have contributed to this. Today we have helicopter capacity that makes you e.g.. can shoot, so there's a way to do it. We've done the training we're about to do, we've got better helicopter preparedness, and we've met almost all of the points from the work done in the Gjørv Commission and in the Special Committee on Stortinget. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e351	There's no time for speech. Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e358	Through the 2004 and 2011 Robbery Settlements, Stortinget has provided clear leadership for the Robbery Policy. It has helped to mitigate the level of conflict in predatory wildlife policy. Last summer, the Stortinget decided on stock targets for wolves – a broad settlement. Lucky is the minority government that gets such a broad majority behind such a difficult case! The more sad it is to see that in time the government – and the government alone – has managed this in a way that has created great uncertainty and anger. The level of conflict in wolf policy has never been higher than today. The Ministry of Climate and Environment’s refusal to license wolves was a violation of Stortingen’s stockholding decision. The way this was done questions whether the government has complied with its obligation to provide information to Stortinget. The fact that one trained the case until the last working day before Christmas meant that the fall of the wolf's license in winter could not be carried out in line with the Stortinge's decision, and the result is that the wolf population is increasing and far beyond the stock target set by the Stortinge. It is in many ways that the government has set aside the wolf settlement of the Storting. That it creates strong reactions in people and in the Storting is not nice. Through its action, the government has helped to increase the level of conflict, increase the uncertainty of those living in the wolf zone, the uncertainty about the decisions taken by the Stortinge and the uncertainty about what will actually happen in the future. It's done well in half a year. People feel that they are not being listened to, and that their position has no value for the government's central government, despite the fact that the Storting has made a decision in this matter. My question is whether the government is behind the goal adopted by the Stortinget last summer. And what does the Prime Minister really think about the government's follow-up to the clear decision taken by the Stortinge last June?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e371	It is such that, following the Storting decision last year, 20 wolves have been authorised to be killed during this season. 13 wolves have been subject to that quota. So significant amounts of wolves have been taken out during this year. In addition, there have been 62 complaints, and only six of them have been converted by the government. So it's not like the government hasn't helped extract the wolf. We certainly have. What has arisen is, on the one hand, a problem that was outlined in the big message that was the basis for the predatory settlement, and, on the other, the challenge between the state of law and setting a stock target. That is why the Minister for Climate and Environment has taken a decision saying that there is no licence in the wolf zone, because there is no legal basis for doing so. It is the case that a legal basis is stronger than a plenary decision in Stortinget, and it is unfortunately so too – or, unfortunately, it is totally wrong, I am from a very law-abiding party – that the law must be followed by a council of states, and it has been one of the dilemmas in these matters. It's not that a majority in the Biggest can just go through with it. It is necessary to take decisions in the form of laws in order to make changes to the practice in question. Now I understand that Stortinget will complete the work on the amendment of the law proposed by the government, and will create any new legal work. Then we have to look at the result of that. The government supports a stock target and has agreed that the stock target should be as decided by the Storting. But we as the government can't go beyond what's legal, even if there's a plenary decision in the Storting behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e380	This is a continuation of what the Minister for Climate and Environment has also said in Stortinget in the past. This does not prevent many people, including the Storing, who believe that the decisions taken by the Storing are within the legal base needed and that respect for the decision and follow-up seems to be the major problem of the government. When the Minister for Climate and Environment reported on the wolf case in January in Stortinget, he was told to change the interpretation of the law and the regulation, so that it was adapted to the Stortinge's decision. He was given a deadline of 10 March to present a case to the Stortinget about how the Stortinget decision was to be followed up. The Council of State's response has been a proposal to amend the Law on Natural Diversity through a new second paragraph of Section 18, and the Council of State says that it is his proposal for a solution to the conflict that has built up between government and accumulation in this matter. How does the Prime Minister view the change in the nature diversity law presented by the government to the Stortinget? Does she think it is appropriate to mitigate the level of conflict in predatory game policy and to comply with the Storting decision in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e389	Legal assessments of individual cases and decisions must always be made. We would also have to do that with the proposal that we put before the Stortinget. But I think it would have provided a greater basis for managing within the wolf zone, based on principles other than what is the guiding principle for administration within today's legislation, where the damage potential is being assessed. The damage potential is low in the wolf zone, because there is little sheep there, and the sheep that is there is largely managed in a different way than in other areas in Norway, as a consequence. I understand that it is very difficult for people living there, that because they have adapted, they have to live with even more wolves. Therefore, it has just been possible to take on larger and wider social conditions, such as the fact that the burden in the wolf zone becomes too heavy by having many wolves in that area, as an important basis for the proposal the government had. I think that would make it possible to manage the wolf zone in another way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e394	There will be follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Violence Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e400	Prime Minister Erna Solberg has allowed the top bureaucrats and the Right State Council Helgesen to run the wolf policy. People who have been affected are in revolt. The elected regional predators have withdrawn. The will of big business has not been followed up. So my question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister trust the work of the State Council Helgesen in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e407	I have confidence in the work of the State Council Helgesen in this area. We have gone through the legal basis and the opinions available – from my point of view as well. That means that today there is no licence hunting in the wolf zone, because it was not a damage potential that was documented at the time, I believe was a correct assessment, based on the legal advice given to the government. The government must balance the relationship with Norwegian law, including in this type of appeal proceedings. When Norwegian law has a flaw, in our opinion, in being able to put other issues clearly into the law, our proposal was to make changes related to it, which means that we could also take into account the burden that is in the area, to have many wolves, and the burden that it is for other social dimensions, than just what is the potential for harm to animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e414	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e419	In June last year, when the Workers' Party decided to enter into a wide-ranging settlement on wolf management in Norway, the intention was to mitigate the conflicts. Then later, we have shown with all clarity that the government's lack of ability and willingness to follow up the bulk of the population has made you have increased conflicts, and one has created a situation where trust in government is really totally absent. It is – in our opinion – a hopeless situation to live with. The government has pushed the law in front of it and excused itself with it. Then the government has promoted a case for the Storting about changes in the law on natural diversity, where one believes it is the basis. When the committee in its proceedings invites the jurisprudence to express its opinion, the jurisprudence expert in Norway rejects the government's amendments to the Law on Natural Diversity as a basis for following up the majority of the Storting. What's now the result is that you don't need a change in the law to follow the decision of the Great Britain of June...
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e426	The representative must come to the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e431	... last year, and therefore the question is: Will the government ensure that what is the majority position of the Storting this time, and which we give later today, is followed up, and that one practices the management of the wolf in line with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e436	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e441	I do not know and cannot comment on a setting that Stortinget has not yet issued. Of course, we need to read it. It's not public, and it's outside of curfew to comment on it until it's actually public. What I can comment on is what we've been thinking: we've thought that a stronger basis is needed to be able to enter a different relationship than the question of animal damage potential. We did that with a change of laws. It's possible that it's possible to do it in other ways. Of course, we should follow the decision of Storting. But it will ultimately be up to the court and the courts to assess whether the possible new leadership of the Storting has sufficient weight in relation to the changes and decisions of the Stortinget, and in relation to the interpretation that we believe has been decisive for us, that we do not have the right to license today. We have the right to take out pests, but we don't have the right to license hunting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e448	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e453	In the 2011 predatory agreement, it is assumed that there shall be a low threshold for the harvesting of predatory game in priority grazing areas and an even lower threshold than before for the extraction of predatory game constituting a potential for damage at the front of the grazing season. Here we are – in front of the grazing season. In a short time, the grazing season begins in large parts of the country. My question to the Prime Minister will then be: Does the Prime Minister know for sure that the administration, both the formal and the operational part, has the will and capacity to follow this up effectively?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e460	The government has emphasized to the government that we need a low threshold to take out pests, and that we are going to have a quick procedure in these cases. It's important to the government. We're serious. We have also received criticism that we do it too quickly some times, among other things. related to the harvesting of bears that caused damage last year. But it's just that we have a low threshold. We believe that pests should be taken out. This also applies in areas where we have not reached the stock targets for animals, for example: for bear, where we are not yet in the stock targets, but where in between it is necessary to take out bear when it does great damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e466	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e471	I am pleased with how the Prime Minister responds to the interpretation of the law as to how we must follow up the Berne Convention and the Law on Diversity, and also that the interpretation of the law must go ahead of what is a simple decision in Stortinget. According to Rovdata, we have about the same wolf population this year as last year. There are 52 heroic wolves – nine fewer than last year, quite rightly because the Slagås team is considered a border group this year. So far, there are four pups of pups, six in border revirons, i.e. seven in total – two in number than last year. Then you have to take seriously the concerns and challenges that exist in areas where there are wolves and established wolf flocks. There are several ways to bring about conflict mitigation. My question to the Prime Minister is: Is the Prime Minister willing to look at conflict mitigation measures in municipalities with wolfevir, for example. that one also has financial compensation and support in the areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e482	It is among the measures we now have to consider — looking at the other types of conflict mitigation measures we can have where there are pressures on the local population with what they have taken. And I think we should be very clear that there is an area of Norway in which they today undertake to be the manager of our responsibility under the Berne Convention in respect of wolves. They then get a greater natural experience, as someone will call it, but there is enough to experience too many as a greater burden in their vicinity, a greater uncertainty. It's natural to look at opportunities to compensate and find solutions for them. What is difficult is to find proper forms of compensation that go beyond the question of compensation for animals. So it's like that it's important to say that today's legal state is given by what's past work. Now Stortinget has a case for treatment. Once they have completed that treatment, there could also be a basis for a new legal status.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e489	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e494	Government has been a credible driver and partner to raise mental health during this period. The golden rule that the growth in drug and mental health should be greater than in somatic conditions has been reintroduced, and free treatment options have so far been priority drugs and psychiatry. Psychiatric health was raised in the Public Health Communication – Mestring and opportunities, and the government has followed up with a 10-year public health programme. In 2016, the country and Norwegian youth received for the first time their own youth health strategy. With the Left and Christian People's Party as proponents it has been granted over 1 billion. kr more to strengthen the provision of services in municipalities, with several health sisters, midwives and community psychologists. However, the resources of mental health protection for children and young people, contrary to the golden rule, depend on the somatic nature of waiting time, cost, annual work and activity. Children and young people with mental health problems lose most in competition with somatic diseases. If we go to the interaction reform, it is also difficult to see that children and young people have become winners. Children and young people in Norway are generally well off, but some people are not well off. We need to give everyone a good start to life. It usually lasts for life, and the community gets a lot more. Norway is a success story in terms of physical public health work – vaccines, smoking laws, dental health, wine monopoly regime and, last but not least, that the government will have less salt and sugar in the food, in cooperation with industry and the retail trade. Heart and masculinity cost us about 105 billion. kr per year. Without the smoking law and the effort to quit smoking, we could double it. But in the field of mental health, we have no action, despite the fact that mental illness costs us 185 billion. kr per year. The costs are literally in the process of growing us over our heads. The growth of mental health among children and young people is a major challenge today. The Prime Minister, and the government of Solberg, can be historic by being the first to complement the Norwegian public health success. So my simple question to the Prime Minister is, Will she contribute to the success of children and young people in life and become historical herself by investing money in building up the country's mental capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e505	The answer to that is that I would like to – not necessarily to be historical, but because making sure that children have an upbringing that allows them to experience mastering their adult life is perhaps the most important thing we do, and perhaps the most important politicians should be concerned about. That is why I am pleased that we have had many results during this period, which are improvements to the offer that is, but I think we have not come far enough. I mean one of our biggest challenges is that there's too little learning of the good examples. We know, among other things: that in Mandal we have a very good example of a collaboration between the municipality and the specialist health service, which comes out early, helps before insertion, manages to handle it – a very good example, which should have been copied several places, but unfortunately it doesn't look like it. It becomes a little person-dependent what you get, and how it is. But we have good results so far in this period. We now have almost a triple of the number of psychologists in the municipalities. That means that there are many more psychologists available, and that's important. We are also going to legislate for municipalities to have psychological competence in 2020, so that we are sure that there will be psychological resources available through municipal responsibility. We know that we have significantly increased health oystering. That means there's a lower threshold for young people to have someone to go to. We also need to work with the voluntary sector, which has many good projects aimed at young people. Then there is part of the anti- bullying work that is also better mental health work, where the government has also put forward proposals and makes clearer and clearer follow-up proposals that contribute to this. But we need more competence, we need children and young people to gain more competence in how they can also work with their mental health – in a public health strategy. It's going to be the government's priority, and I hope for good cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, as we've had it in other areas. The largest increase in the number of annual work in municipalities is now targeted at mental health and drug work among young people — youth-related annual work, which has increased by 7pst. from 2015 to 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e516	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer and for the willingness to continue – we are far from on target. Money is easy to obtain in a rich country, but, as the Prime Minister has pointed out earlier in the Questionnaire today, structures are important, and they are often more difficult to change. The organisation of the mental health field still seems to me to be something old-fashioned. VG’s roll-up of coercive use in psychiatry in the last year shows alarming wide variations. Yellow patches are widely used instead of ICT systems, and they are failing management. Under half of Norwegian municipalities have psychologists, and almost no doctors have psychologists. Health-sister education dates back to the 1980s, and so to speak, all health-sisters in Norway are women, less than ten are men. Health stations are an invention from the previous municipal reform, in the 1960s. It was before we had kindergartens. Today, all children go to kindergarten, and we should have had four years of control in the kindergarten. We have major structural challenges. The next question is whether the Prime Minister will be involved in a structural change and a lifting of competences in the field of mental health in order to get the money to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e525	It's too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e530	It's important to say, of course, that we have two different levels of health work. One thing is going on in the specialist health service, where I think there is a lot to go about in terms of the quality of the offer given, seeing better models, but I especially see the interaction between the specialist health service and the community health services as perhaps the best way to reach young people, which means that those young people who are on the way to developing serious mental illness can get help at home, in the home community, rather than moving to an institution. We know that one third of the admissions to mental health protection could have been avoided if we had been better at prevention. That is why I am pleased that we are now seeing a build-up of the number of posts – in line with what we have said. Then it's clear that it's also important which competences we have attached to them. We have a carelift 2020, where we spend 1.2 billion. kr in the State budget of the year to increase the competence of municipal health services in different areas. Here, too, mental health competence is important in all parts of the care sector targeted at young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e537	There will be follow-up questions – first Iselin Nybø.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e542	During this period, the Left, Christian People's Party and the government have granted 5 million. to the interaction of students with measures to improve the mental health of students. The previous SHOT survey showed that every five students say they have severe mental distress. It is twice as high as the population otherwise in the same age group, and the increase is highest among women. Many people experience study life as challenging, both because it's exams, submissions, pressure — success, good grades, doing well — and because solitude comes over many students. My question to the Prime Minister is, what does she think we can do more to improve students' mental health, and to enable them to master the everyday life they experience as students?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e550	If there's one thing I know a lot about, there's a mental health intervention among students, since my mother was a secretary of mental health for students in Bergen for 30 years. The association in Bergen chose to establish mental health protection and send people to normal doctors, because it was good medical coverage, but poor with psychological services. In Oslo you did the opposite, and so have many other places. Therefore, there is a lot of experience in Bergen about how important it is to have an offer with your own psychological services to be able to provide help to students in a very difficult situation. And that's why I think that student relations should look into whether they should have a special offer around, and see if it's part of the framework they should have, or whether they can conclude cooperation agreements with the more clear and clearer municipalities, so that there is a psychological service available. But the basic thing is that when we've almost tripled the number of psychologists in the municipalities, there's also a more accessible psychological service for the students. But, as I said, there is experience from the University of Bergen that shows that this is an important measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e555	Tove Karoline Knutsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e560	The government's ambition to introduce the golden rule into the specialist health service, i.e. that the growth of psychiatry and ru area should be greater than that of somatics, has proved to be far from striking. The last numbers we've got are actually surprisingly bad. According to the Norwegian Patient Register, in 2015 11,000 more patients were referred to in the specialist health care system compared to 2014. This was managed by increasing the proportion of patients who were rejected, from 18 pst. 28 pst., which meant that 11,000 referral patients, i.e. the whole increase, were rejected from treatment. The same trend emerges when we look at the figures from other tertiary 2016 — actually a lot worse. The proportion of rejected patients within orthopaedics is comparable to less than 10 pst, so the difference is alarming. Given that the Prime Minister is increasingly boasting of shorter waiting times and your two waiting lists, what does she think of these new and dramatic figures for mentally ill patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e567	I assume that if a patient is rejected, it's based on a medical basis, that it's a different offer than the one offered by the specialist healthcare service. Indeed, what is clear and clear in the regulations, the guidelines, is that health businesses should do. The fact that more people are referred to will include: of greater transparency about mental problems. There are probably several people who are also seeking help in the specialist healthcare service and who should have received a better offer in the primary health service. That is why I am pleased that this government has ensured that we are now getting better mental health protection in primary health care. We have almost tripled the number of psychological positions; we have contributed to a significant increase also in the competence effort related to these areas — and for example. to the health sister’s side. But I can't assume anything other than that if an increase in the number that's rejected gets treatment, it's a treatment assessment of it. If not, they should be on a waiting list for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e572	Olaug Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e577	In a Norwegian document, we meet Silje Marie Strandberg. She was treated for ten years in her best youth with extensive medication, coercion, electroshock and other treatments. So one day the angel came, and Lone, the psychiatrist, came to change the life of Silje in total – with closeness. She spends a little longer time than what is accepted in healthcare. Medical use goes down, coercion goes down, self-harm goes down. Diagnosis may not be the way they should be. Silje says she's lost ten years. What does the Prime Minister think about this story? Unfortunately, it is not unique. When it comes to where and how we work – do we succeed when young people experience this? Or should we turn the cards around and think completely differently?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e586	I just get sad when I hear such stories, because it shows that we are unable to adapt healthcare to the needs of users. One of the goals of the government is to create patients' health services; we need to be more focused on what measures are being taken; we need to be more effective at seeing the whole of a patient. Not least, it is important in psychiatric treatment. So we know that psychiatry is a subject area where many of the top specialists say that many methods are used that don't work and that you don't have professional coatings for. You have too little research on what works, and what doesn't work. You have too little knowledge in many areas. In terms of the basis for treatment, much more work is needed on the treatment modalities, the quality of the treatment provided. It's not just a Norwegian challenge, it's a challenge because it's been a low priority area in health care and research. That's why the methods aren't good enough. But it's sad for every youth who loses so many years of his life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e593	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e598	Hardly any task should be more important to the policy of our time than to counteract the growing inequality of power and wealth that we see in all Western countries, and also in Norway. It undermines trust and community, it leads to money and power over the future being gathered on fewer hands than before, leaving small elites from the rest of the population, while others inherit poverty and exclusion. One would think that a Norwegian government would do its utmost to take care of the best in Norway, namely the small differences. Instead, we see that the government that is now doing its best to continue a development towards greater inequality – through great gifts to the economic elite combined with petty cuts to people who have little. Step 1 if one wants to do something about such a development, is to recognize that it exists. We already know that the Prime Minister has had a challenge with climate negators in his ranks. Now it looks as if she has also had a challenge with dissidents, because when the Minister of Finance was here in Stortinget last question hour before Easter, she said the following in response to the representative Kirsti Bergstø: ‘It is simply a mistake when the representative Bergstø tries to produce it as if the differences in Norway were increasing.’ And later, to the representative Per Olaf Lundtegen, I quote Siv Jensen: ‘ Again, it is not true that there are large, increasing differences in Norway, rather on the contrary.’ Does the Prime Minister think that this claim from the Minister of Finance is correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e617	I believe that there are no large, growing differences in Norway, but there are some differences that are increasing in our society. And then it's important to talk about what strategies we have against it. I have noticed that SV attaches great importance to an SSB report on the increases, which the SSB researcher himself says cannot be taken into account for this. He says that this can be so much an adjustment that when we reduce corporate tax, other forms of tax increase. So there's a part that's taken out more dividends, for example. in 2015. One has to have a little longer time before making such a bombastic — as SV claims — that there have been larger increases in this, because, as we could see in 2005–2006, there are often adjustments and changes in the tax system that can make annual deviations different from this. But that's not what I think is the most important challenge of inequality in Norway. The most important challenge of inequality is precisely what lies in the question of power — the feeling of mastering one's own life, of being able to participate in the working life, the feeling of abstinence. Now it's important to trust in our society, that everyone feels that they're being cared for, and that they have an opportunity to participate in our society. That's why the government's strategy is the best against small differences. It is to provide systematic training, work on how to ensure that those outside the labour market can get into the labour market, it is to work with mental health – with the efforts previously documented here have become much greater under this government – it is to work towards people falling out of school, early effort. It's all these things that over time help more master their lives. It's getting smaller differences, it's having a good integration policy. I believe that SV has a humiliating way of dealing with what is the inequality problem, we should see that much, much deeper. I believe that SV does not have a strategy against it – they sell out money, we make sure to rust people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e630	That's good. The Prime Minister then confirmed that the Minister of Finance was wrong, and that SV was right. We have an inequality problem in Norway, and then we can discuss what to do with it. Let me then talk about the unfinished ones. No group has been as thoroughly failed by this government in this period as they failed. 37 million. kr per year is the sum that the government has chosen to take from families where parents are too sick to work and already poor. It is the cut that has been carried out in children’s supplements for disabled dependants. I wonder how the Prime Minister now toward the end of the period will reflect on the cut and how it has turned out. What will she say today to the afflicted, to the families and the children who have been hit by this cut? Has this led to more people getting into work despite their inability to do so? Was it a necessary sacrifice for more rich families to retain their wealth or to inherit more? Or what really made it necessary for the Prime Minister to make more poor families poorer?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e640	I think the questioner knows the answer to that. This is part of a line of work, where the changes we've made help you not get more paid out than what you would have had in the job before. All of the statements about why we were going to do it for 37 million. kr, falls on its own unreasonableness precisely because there is very little money in the big budgetary context. But we believe that one of the big ways forward to make sure that we get less inequality is to make sure that people who can work will work a little bit. And a lot of bad guys aren't 100 pst. completed. You're partially exhausted and given the opportunity to try again. If you have a system that makes it unprofitable to try again in the workplace, it's harmful to people. That is why we have said that the working line should be consistent. I know from SV's history that you didn't mean that. It was thought that ten years of transitional benefits were correct. The experience of implementing the transition aid reform in the 1990s showed that it was an important measure of poverty. Several women with poor background came out to work, and it got better for their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e647	There will be follow-up questions – first Snorre Serigstad Valen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e652	A crucial competence for being a government council is to answer something other than what is being asked, in an elegant way that allows you to hope not to get the exact same question again. What the representative Lysbakken asked for was what the Prime Minister has to say to the families hit by cuts in the children's supplement. The Prime Minister's answer was a longer explanation that people who can work should preferably work instead of receiving social security benefits, and that it should not pay off not to work. There's no one in this room who disagrees. But a claim that someone is for not working is one of the most stupid elements in the Norwegian inequality debate. Some of those who have been deprived of not only 10,000, but 20,000 and even NOK 30,000 per year – are families with disabled dependants who cannot work. The question is, what does the Prime Minister have to say to the families affected by these very hard-handed cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e659	Now the question was also why it was necessary, from the representative Lysbakken – and I answered why it was necessary. I believe that it is important for everyone concerned that we have a good malpractice system as a security. However, it is also important to ensure that the disability scheme does not constitute a barrier to entering the labour market. I also dare to say directly to the disabled, who have the child supplement: we have to make sure that we have measures that make it profitable to work, and then we have measures that help children not to experience child poverty, that the family has difficult finances, as a difficult situation. That is why this government has also launched a number of measures to ensure better access to leisure activities, better cooperation with non-governmental organisations and a separate approach to child poverty to help children experience participation even if the family does not have such good advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e666	Dag Terje Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e671	I can first confirm that I have received the answer from Minister of Finance Siv Jensen that the differences do not increase, but later got the answer to a written question to the Minister of Finance that the fact is that the differences are increasing. There's no doubt about it, and one has been involved in some of the things that do. One of them is that more people are going crazy. I don't know if the Prime Minister intended to contest my figures instead, but it's so that according to Nav's figures, the number of disabled people from 2013 to 2016 has increased from 305,889 to 318,244. The number of people between the ages of 18 and 29 has increased from 10,446 to 14,340, i.e. an increase of 37 pst. It would be nice if the Prime Minister decided whether she disagreed with the Nav figures. But the most important question is: does the Prime Minister think that there are more ports of disability and more going on social assistance, while at the same time some of the richest in Norway get a lot of tax relief, increase or reduce inequalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e678	To answer the question. I said in my earliest answer today that the exit from the labour market under the red-green government went more to health-related benefits, while the departure has now gone more to people not in work, so you don't find them in health-related ones. So it's the way health-related benefits are made up of two things: it's unsuitable and AAP, and the AAP share goes down, so that's the sum of the two things. So I don't think we disagree, I just think that's the sum of the two things that make there a little difference to this. Now we've cleared up that question. So it's like I think that the tax relief we give, both what we do on corporate taxes, which the Workers' Party agrees to is growth stimulating, and what we do on wealth taxes, which I think is to create room for more business start-ups, larger businesses, more jobs, actually makes it better for very many people to know that there are more available jobs, and we have to have a strategy for both jobs and to equip the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e685	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e690	The government has increasingly underlined the need for a green tax shift and has pointed out that it must be cheaper to choose environmentally friendly and more expensive to pollute and destroy nature — and the government has actually done a few things to follow up on this. They include: added a small increase in the diesel price and the petrol price, and they have added a small fare. These measures are so small that they have very little effect. The Green Party has proposed measures that will provide the emission cuts that the government itself promises, but which they are very far from delivering. We have proposed full deployment of national electric car charging networks, support for low-collective district electric car purchases, a five-kron increase in petrol prices and the diesel price, which is re-distributed in a climate-reward scheme. We have proposed a seat charge of 600 kroner, half of it in areas with poor alternative public transport, etc. There are measures that will work. But the government's actions are, at least in principle, correct. The working party, on the other hand, reacts in the opposite way when concrete environmental taxes are proposed. They went to the full fight against the fare and, as far as I know, have no measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from aircraft. And now the Forces in the Workers' Party are proposing to increase competition with the Center Party to become the worst party in the fight against greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector, because they will thus cut the fuel price in the countryside. In the debate on the fare, the Prime Minister was ready. She said, if we're going to follow the polluter-pays principle, we have to help make the air travel more expensive. The question is: will the government – unlike the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, apparently – stand firm by the fact that the polluter has to pay and opt for higher charges on flights and fossil fuels?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e703	We believe that the polluter should pay, and that is a good basis for doing so. There are several ways to get the polluter to pay. One is to make sure that what is polluting has to pay as much as today, and that what is environmentally friendly alternatives pays less. We're also doing some conversions that make the price difference make it easier to choose something that's less polluting. Looking at some of the effects that come from actually bringing down emissions in the non-quota sector in Norway in the future – significantly down to 2020 and beyond – some of the important things will be the conversion we have made from the one-off tax, which is now a strong incentive to buy cars with low emissions or zero emissions. It costs a lot on the state budget. That's 9 billion. kr less in input from car charges now than it was in 2013, but there are strong environmental impacts of the conversions taking place. This also means that we stimulate the purchase of cars that have lower emissions. The second strategy is what we have done in common with the Left and Christian People's Party on the Storting, to have a strong stepping-up for biodiesel, which, not least as a district measure, will be important, where there are longer distances and more difficult to rely on just having zero-emission cars in the short term, and where, therefore, alternatives are needed. So I would say that the repertoire is a little wider than the representative Rasmus Hansson thinks. We are concerned that there should be a shift. As we increase taxes on environmental emissions and on climate emissions, there should not be a new, unilateral tax approach. That is why we must have relief at the same time. But we're not going to go to the elections for special increases of this, but the principle in the Right Program is that the polluter should pay. We do not disagree that this means that you should also have fees increases that reflect it. But we will not, in sum, increase the tax burden on people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e714	I thank you for your answer and move on to the transport sector, as the Prime Minister mentions. There, the Storting and the Government have decided that Norway will enter into a binding agreement with the EU to cut 40 pst. greenhouse gas emissions in the non-quota sector by 2030. The Prime Minister has stated that there is an agreement that is so stony that a certain Rasmus Hansson will appear as a flexible solution for comparison. According to the government's new perspective report, this means that it has to be cut from 27 million. tonnes to 16,5 million. tonnes in the non-quota sector, i.e. close to 11 million. tonnes, while the proposal for a national transport plan states that in the transport sector only about 2 million are to be cut. Ton – so very far from the 7 million. Ton, or 40 pst., which must be cut in the non-quota sector, most of which must of course be taken in the transport sector. The question to the Prime Minister is: Does the National Transport Plan mean an ultimatum to the EU from the government that Norway has no plans at all to cut the 40 pst. contained in the original EU agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e720	We have an ambition that when we implement the agreement with the EU, we will be able to implement everything we have promised. 40 pst. is in our opinion within the reasonableness. Now I can't go through exactly what numbers you think of in connection with the national transport plan, but it doesn't have the means and effects of very many other conversions. For example, the one-off fee will deliver quite significant results in the future, and in the case of new car sales, we will mainly have zero-emission passenger cars from the mid-2020s onwards. What we are working on now is better measures for the transport of goods and goods. We've looked at different models to stimulate so that we can take out the potential that already exists for electric cars, for smaller vans, and that we can take out more hydrogen-related in the future. Therefore, hydrogen capacity expansion in Norway is a lot of work. I think we should be able to achieve these objectives. I think it is quite optimistic about the new emission projections, which show that the policy of the government is working. Emissions are moving downwards towards 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e725	We go to the next main question – from Tore Hagebakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e730	The Solberg government has increased the budget deficit to new records. Oil money use has increased so much that if you continue the same way, the fund will run out early in the 2040s, according to estimates made by NHO's chief economists. After almost four years with Erna Solberg as Prime Minister, a conservative writer has created the saying: Using money as a full Right People – to describe the government’s economic policy. The contrasts to the promises of the campaign could hardly have been greater. Then the Right was to be the backbone of responsible money use, according to the Prime Minister. The right spine is now more a suction pipe into the oil fund, was the summation from the political editor in today's business. The decision-making commitments on responsible economic governance were put in a drawer at the moment that this government took over the offices. More oil money went east from the very first moment, and it is done on every occasion – and long before the unemployment became record high or the oil price had fallen. The government has announced that the next governments must just forget to spend money in the uncontrolled way the government of today has stood by. The economic space for action in the future is calculated for approx. 6.5 B.C.E. kr per year, according to the national budget – i.e. far below the right-wing party government has disposed of. Nevertheless, we can read in the Class Battle that the Right goes to the election on a party program that will increase the deficit further, sums up to almost 10 billion. kr. I would like to ask the Prime Minister who is going to pay the bill for the lack of financial accountability of the Right. Is that our children and grandchildren? Are most people being cut off in well-being — increasing child care prices and increased taxes? Or are the vulnerable groups that are to be paid for the tax cuts to the rich?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e739	A majority of the Stortinget made up a government budget with a deficit of about 10 %. 225 B.C.E. kr, which was what was used by the oil fund. The Workers' Party settled its alternative budget for 221 billion. kr. The representative's posts are an article of the kind I've heard many times in my long political life. Right where the Workers' Party is, the sky is -- on the other hand, it's just hell one way or the other, I'm sorry to say that, President. It's an exaggeration of dimensions when the Workers' Party later uses significantly less money in its state budgets, while they criticize us for spending too little on an entire pile of areas. The difference is 4 billion. kr. It is absolutely right to spend money when you have a cyclical situation that is demanding. It would be strange if we were not to spend money in a situation where people become unemployed. And we have applied it to measures that are not persistently increased expenditure, but measures that have contributed to employment in the private sector, by using them through municipal budgets, but for maintenance. The Labour Party has spent its money on increasing its public budgets, so that there will be lasting increases, not earmarked for areas that can be reversed. That makes our budget healthier in the long term than the Workers' Party's alternative budget is. In addition, we have strong incentives to ensure that we create new businesses, so we do what the previous government did not. We have raised the innovation effort, and we have raised the issue of nutrient-oriented research – in the areas that in the future we will see progress in new areas that create new businesses. It takes time, but it's going to turn out to be the right policy. A responsible economic policy is not only about how much money you spend, but also what you spend on it, and about whether you sustainably raise public expenditure – and the Workers' Party has raised sustainable public expenditure significantly in its alternative budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e746	It's true that we're giving quite a different priority. That is why I am not surprised that it is tax cuts for the richest who have taken priority in the Höres programme for 2017-2021. After four years of extremely biased tax cuts, the Right goes to elections on a distribution policy that is more biased one at a time, and that says a little bit. And they do this despite the fact that in almost four years' time the government has not been able to prove that the tax cuts of the richest actually increase employment or increase growth in the economy. The only thing you can point to from results is increased deficits and increased differences between people. Why does the Prime Minister think that the country within a much less economic space of action than now, as a seaman says lies ahead of us, can afford to spend even more money on new tax cuts that do not work, either in terms of creating jobs or economic growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e753	The maximum number of billions we've given in tax relief, we've given to ordinary people. We have made sure that a couple of ordinary incomes have received approx. NOK 8 000 in tax relief. We have given some tax cuts that also go to pensioners, who I have registered that the head of the Workers' Party, Jonas Gahr Støre, repeatedly sniffs off. But in a situation where it's difficult, where we actually regulate pensions in a way that makes the real wage decrease bigger for pensioners than others, we think it's reasonable that they also get some tax dollars attached to it. So it takes time before we see changes in the investment rate based on tax relief to business. This applies both to corporate taxes and to property taxes. The interesting thing is that the Workers' Party tends to say that corporate tax has a lot of positive effects to create new businesses, but we can't read it out of the numbers yet, despite the fact that we started the reduction in taxes already in the autumn of 2013–2014, which the Workers' Party usually boasts. So it takes time to see investments, but fortunately we see that industrial investment in 2016-2017 is on its way; we are on our way out of a recession. Our tax policy has contributed to a long-term transformation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e760	It opens for one follow-up question – Irene Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e765	We have now heard the difference in heaven and hell, and to continue a little bit on that theme: in the class struggle today we can read that it can be expensive for Norway if the Right gets to rule the country for four new years. The 26-billion-billion-dollar action room. is quickly eaten by all the options in the Right Program. Only decisions on transport and defence will increase government expenditure by 21.6 billion. kr over four years, and further promises of a cut in the property tax will cost NOK 7,5 billion. kr. Only with that is more than the action space already used. In addition, we know that there is a need for increased efforts in health, care for the elderly, school — to mention something. The right fiscal spokesman defends the election promises by saying that there will always be a priority between different proposals in the programme and, after all, it asks what is going on in a government platform. Can the Prime Minister tell you what the Right will cut off all these election vows in the next period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e772	We're going to vote on the program we've adopted, and we're going to fight it to implement it. But it's like it says in the program that we always want to adapt what and how much we can implement in different areas to the economic situation. I think it's quite possible to do re-priorities. The biggest difference between the Labour Party and the Right is that we believe that it is possible to streamline, and therefore we have a fundamental efficiency reform into all our budgets. That makes us force re-priorities and changes in different state agencies, which the Labour Party has been opposed to, but that gives us beyond 1.5 billion. kr more to prioritize for each year, as the Workers' Party then takes away because they do not want to re-prioritize; they just want to spend more money on everything. We have proposed a number of reforms that provide us with savings over time, which will enable us to improve the quality of services, even if we do not necessarily need to spend money. The fact that we're a reformist party also means that we can turn around and spend money in a different way. Unfortunately, there are a couple of reforms we haven't got through in the Storting, which would give us less bureaucracy and paper moving and more money for services to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e781	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-19.ana.ud2e795	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
