ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e78	The representative Elisabeth Vik Aspaker, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. From the meeting alternate representative of the Hedmark County, Lasse Juliusen, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget on Thursday 8 June under the authority of the representative of Anette Trettebergstuen, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of the Hedmark County, Thor Lillehovde, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e106	Three permit applications are available: by the Workers' Group on the welfare leave of the representatives of Torgeir Mikalsen and Jonas Gahr Støre, respectively, on Thursday 8 June by the Group of the Left, on the welfare leave of the representative of Mr Sveinung Rotevatn, on Thursday, 8 June Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternates of Oslo and Sogn and Fjordane counties respectively, Prableen Kaur and Gunhild Berge Stag, there are applications for exemptions from meeting in the Stortinge under the leave of representatives Jonas Gahr Støres and Sveinung Rotevatn respectively for welfare reasons. Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: for the Province of Buskerud: Laila Gustavsen for Oslo: Vegard Gröslie Wennesland for Sogn and Fjordane counties: Marianne Øren – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e176	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and members of the Government 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e189	Some people say it's rare, others don't, but this big message we're now handling is lengthened. The Norwegian student organisation took it as a say in itself that it was made. They can also take note of some victories in terms of content and with good reason. This is a good day for the students. This communication and treatment in the United Kingdom give a unique signal to all universities and colleges: Education and training are as important as the research mission. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for the commitment to better education quality and for good committee work. The consensus gives an important signal. The working party believes that we could go even further. I will come back to you later in this article. The Committee is aware that the role of universities and higher education is becoming increasingly important. Science, knowledge and competences are crucial for how well we can meet our societal challenges, as well as building on the ability of industry to succeed increasingly on the ability to take on new knowledge through innovation and increased skills in the workplace. As a result, there will be increasing demands on the quality of both the research results and the candidates we receive from our universities and colleges. We are therefore clear that education and research are just as social tasks for the institutions – that is what everyone in the Committee believes. An education system in which everyone is entitled to equal education is fundamental, and institutions and students must be given a framework enabling them to achieve a high level of education. We believe there is a lot of good going on in the university and higher education sectors. However, there is a need to improve the quality of education. It is important that the students are included in the professional and social community as soon as they start their studies. Active and varied forms of learning produce better results than the more traditional and passive ways of teaching. Feedback practices and assessment of learning are essential for learning outcomes. Here we have a little bit to go on. The study barometer shows that feedback and guidance are least satisfied with the students. It is a fact that research shows that more is being stimulated and encouraged in education, more is being brought with it. This is underlined by the State authorities and the fact that the individual institution also ensures that it does so. Various incentives, status, career paths and other conditions favour research today. It is not surprising, therefore, that the culture of good teaching is not good enough in many places. A unanimous increase will support the government in introducing authoritative education and the requirement for basic skills and learning experience in employment in all professional positions. These systems are now being developed, in slightly different directions by different institutions, and they have clear disadvantages. Creating such systems requires resources, and this should be coordinated. Another argument is that a national merit system will allow a scientific employee to take the merit forward to a new employment relationship. But the reason used to do it locally is that it gives better legitimacy to employees. But the Workers' Party and we, representing the minority, note that the major trade unions in the sector – in fact, all – want a national system. That is why it is a pity that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left vote against this. A continuous feature of education, from kindergarten to doctoral education, is the importance of feedback – that the child, youth and adult student receive individual feedback from the pedagogue in kindergarten, from the teacher at school, from the teacher at the university and from the supervisor in practice. It itself prevents non-response, and it produces better results. We still struggle to get this done. This report also states that the professional community should strive to provide more and better feedback to the students in the course of the study, but the Workers' Party is critical that there are no more concrete actions. Being a student at a university or college is a new professional everyday life where you have to find out about the unknown terrain, and where you have to make many choices that have consequences for what you qualify for further in the workplace, without knowing so much about neither the working life nor the study life nor what's going on in the subject. When you don't have enough knowledge of your own subject, it will be difficult to make this choice without better follow-up and better guidance from a scientific employee than we see today. This lack of follow-up and guidance is what students want most, and for the fourth consecutive year, this area is the least satisfied with, shows the study barometer from 2016. These are very important factors in student learning outcomes and motivation, as well as the experience of being part of a professional community. 50 pst. students have never discussed their professional development or their results with professional employees. In addition, the Norwegian student organisation indicates that many students lack a professional affiliation to the study and that professional membership can play an important role in determining whether they continue or not, and whether they fall from or not. If the institutions are to combat non-retirement in higher education and build up under the student's professional motivation and well-being, yes, new students must be included in the subject environment to which they are linked, and this should be done early in the course of study. A mentoring scheme will be a way to include students and ensure closer follow-up. The working party is in favour of such a scheme, but this should be done in a way that is feasible at the level of the various institutions and at the level of the various disciplines. In addition, we believe that more targeted work needs to be done with student recruitment, improving the admission methods and the organisation of studies. Much greater emphasis should be placed on the ability of students to succeed in education and working life when the studies are planned and organised. All students shall meet a properly adapted study burden and a closer follow-up and guidance on their study. That should be a goal. There is also a high potential in digital aids. Although the education sector is one of the areas where there will be the greatest changes in the future, we still see that there are many behind it. We believe that digital evaluation and assessment should be the general rule of universities and colleges. It will free up time, and technology can be of good help. In addition, providing high-quality education throughout the country will make it easier, and continuing training will also make it easier to achieve a greater degree of digitisation of higher education. The period of practice is important for the quality of education. It is discouraging that over 40 pst. students report that periods of practice are not used as a teaching form, so there is a strong potential for improvement. The government describes it, but does not come up with any measures. That's too bad. This applies to practices both in traditional professions, which have a long experience and tradition of practice, and in the disciplines of humanities and social sciences, which should get more practice. The mantra of the blue-blue government is more competition. Therefore, they have the ambition that the financing of higher education should be based more on competition. The working party is afraid this will weaken cooperation between students, researchers, trade unions and institutions and weaken the working conditions of employees, unless predictability and increased temporaryity are predicted. National competition venues in education are one of the few concrete measures in the notification, but we in the Workers' Party want good education for all; we want it not only where someone has reached a national competition in a few, selected environments. Quality requires stable and solid basic appropriations throughout the sector, and here, in our view, there is a distinction between research and education in terms of the nature of the activity. So although competition can function well as a research tool, it is more doubtful whether it has the same effect in education. Finally, a few words about internationalisation: it is absolutely essential. The university and higher education sectors need to have a high degree of internationalisation. There must be a goal in itself of several students going abroad. It is important to provide facilities at all institutions for this to happen, and it should be done to a greater extent than we see now. There is one area that is demanding, and it is about those who do not receive recognition of their education in Norway. We've seen more things about that lately. There we have put forward some proposals – some get a majority, others don't – but this is something I will come back to in a later article. I would also like to say a little bit about social relations around the studies and student representatives, but Martin Henriksen will elaborate on the Workers' Party's point of view on that. In the end, I will also mention, as far as the number of places of study is concerned, that there has been a conflict around the number of places of study, especially in ICT, and there is a clear cry in the workplace for more people with technological skills. Although the government has allocated money to several places of study, it is obviously not enough, and it is also far less than what was allocated in the budget for 2017. We find that regrettable. It is important to focus on ICT in the university and higher education sectors. Finally, I would like to address the proposals on which the Workers' Party is involved in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e229	The representative of Marianne Aasen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e234	The message we are handling today is an important message about the future of Norway. It's about how we're going to ensure young people access to high-quality education. It's about how we can create a culture of quality in Norwegian higher education. From now on, the government has given priority to higher education and research — in words, in figures and in action. We had high ambitions when we took the government offices in 2013, and already in the first budget we strengthened the investments in higher education and research saw that monnet. Since then, we've done it every year. But politics is not just about beautiful words and increased use of money. It's probably so much about drying out making changes and how we set up the systems to achieve the goals we set ourselves. The Quality Communication is the third phase of a three-stage rocket to enhance the quality of Norwegian research and education. In autumn 2014, the government presented the very first long-term plan, and in 2015 the structural reform came. In the long-term plan, the course was strung out, and the government's goal was reduced. We need to strengthen the quality of our professional environments, and we need more professional environments of the highest class to develop Norway into an innovative nation that can secure our welfare community. Structural reform involves major changes in the university and higher education sectors, the aim of which is to improve quality, secure professional environments and ensure good access to education throughout the country. In this context, it is worth mentioning that the so-called Stjernø Committee presented its report in 2008 which concluded that Norwegian higher education is not of sufficient quality. They pointed out, among other things: the dissemination of resources for thin externalities and the presentation of concrete proposals for structural changes. The red-green government put the whole report in a drawer, and even though the time was overdue to make changes, it happened very little. The more happy it is to record that we are already seeing the results of the Right Policy – new institutions and environments that gather forces to enhance quality. Already in 2013, an overall opposition consisting of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left promoted a proposal to present a separate report on quality in higher education. The opposition may repeat its mantra too little and too late, but the truth is that we have had the initiative in this matter, we are doing the basic work, and we are promoting one thing after another to ensure the quality of higher education and research. Today, students and the quality of teaching are at the center. With this message, the government provides universities and colleges with several tools and the framework needed to develop a quality culture along several axes. The aim is to raise the status of education and to facilitate the provision by universities and colleges of education relevant to a changing working life. The message is a clear invitation to universities and colleges to take a leading role. It's about universities and colleges helping to make it as good a teacher as an excellent scientist. New study programmes will be more widely assessed by disciplines and will be developed together with the labour market. Good education must become a collective responsibility for both professional and working environments to a greater extent than today. Today, young people need to look at several sites to find information, and now all information has to be collected in one quality portal. The government will also have institutions set up a merit system to give the best teachers the recognition they deserve. Good education can be learned, and then there must be a community of professionals in education. Institutions also need to make their own admission to education more demanding. By recruiting motivated and qualified students, universities and universities will also be able to improve the learning environment and quality of education. In order for all students to use their full potential, the government proposes to stimulate the development of offers for the most talented and motivated students, e.g. with research lines in more studies than at present. The notification also signals clear expectations that more students should use the opportunity to take part in their training abroad. In the last ten years, we've had a huge increase in student mass. It is positive because knowledge and competence are important to our ability to meet major societal challenges and create values. But with so many students, we need to think anew to make sure that students meet institutions that can offer them good and relevant education, including a teacher who takes learning seriously. Then we have to make it attractive to do the important job it is to teach, for a university or university employee, it has to be as given to bet on education as on research. That's exactly what we're doing with this message. Finally, I would like to mention that on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, I am promoting a concrete proposal to help clean up a difficult matter that affects Norwegian foreign students who have taken a professional training abroad. In our opinion, they have been in an entirely unsustainable situation, and therefore we will ask the government to look at what compensatory measures can be taken to help these students.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e262	The representative Kristin Vinje then addressed the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e267	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good cooperation on the communication. This is an important and good communication which the Committee has considered in depth and contains a number of measures that will help to promote the development of a quality culture in higher education. Several evaluations of the 2003 Quality Reform show that we still have study quality challenges and too low throughput, but the Progress Party-Higher Government has presented a number of actions that will have positive results for the future. The Progress Party will point out that the Communication is well integrated into the range of quality promotion actions in the education and research sector launched while the Progress Party has been in government. There is a clear line between the Teacher Lift, increased entry requirements for teacher training, the record high construction of student housing, the structural reform of higher education, the long-term research and higher education plan and the Fagskolelift. Quality must be promoted and rewarded. We in the Progress Party are particularly pleased with the emphasis that the two core activities of universities and colleges – research and education – are equal. Being an excellent teacher is just as nice as being an excellent researcher. We in the Progress Party believe that the Academy contributes to the promotion of deep-thinking, understanding, innovation and development. Academic activities at a high level have a self-esteem. At the same time, it is important that academics are also aware that part of their societal mission is to contribute to a better society, and a better society depends on value creation. We are therefore pleased that one of the main objectives of the communication is that the students are to receive training relevant to working life. We now expect universities and colleges to interact well with social and work life at both study programme and institution level. The study programmes and descriptions of learning outcomes must be designed in cooperation with the labour market. The Progress Party believes that a valuable contribution to better interaction is the creation of the position as a professor of practice. Practice professors with long and solid experience in the workplace can provide the study environment with much concrete and practical experience and contribute to more diversity in the academic environment. Policy professors will also make visible the value-creating role that students will play in normal working life. Furthermore, the Progress Party is very positive that institutions are given the opportunity to set their own admission requirements for individual training courses. Such an option is of course part of the autonomy of the institutions. It will be involved and ensure a high level of studies and will contribute to the preparation of students who are admitted to special studies for the professional challenges they will face at their university or college. The main task of universities and colleges is to acquire and disseminate new knowledge and to educate the adult population according to the needs of society. The UH institutions play an important role in social development and must therefore play an important role in lifelong learning. The Progress Party therefore expects more dialogue between the world of work and universities and higher education on the development of continuing education. Such offers are important in order to allow workers to fill their skills while at work or to acquire new skills relevant to a new profession. The party considers that students who have taken training abroad are very reluctant to be informed that the professional training they are taking or are about to finish is no longer approved in Norway — this is because the Directorate of Health has changed the practice for the approval of the study. This is what psychologists now experience, and the Progress Party believes it is unsustainable, either for students or for society, who are in great need of psychologists. At the same time, it is important to stress that patient safety considerations ensure that healthcare professionals are granted authorisation and licensing in line with Norwegian legislation in this area. With this in mind, the Progress Party, together with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, is about the proposal that Mr Vinje promoted in his speech. The Progress Party is pleased that a Joint Committee proposes that students applying for study aid for training abroad be informed that the training provides the necessary authorisation or recognition necessary for the pursuit of the profession in Norway. Finally, students have the right to good teaching and to a good learning environment. That is what the representative Sandaune will come back to in his statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e295	Perhaps it may soon be over that staff in the university and higher education sectors talk about their educational obligations and research-free. Maybe now we can manage to raise the status of being a good teacher, a good intermediary and a good trainer to the same status as being a good scientist. And maybe we can now manage to put in place a system that underpins the opinion of an overall committee in the position, that the two core tasks, education and research, are equal societal tasks for the institutions in the university and higher education sectors. I am pleased that the government has now presented a major report on quality in higher education, which the Committee has now been given the opportunity to deal with. This is a follow-up to an initiative of the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left in the previous period. We have already done a lot to strengthen the university and higher education sectors and to facilitate better education during this major period. Structural reform is important in order to create robust institutions and sound professional environments. We've adopted a long-term plan for research and higher education, we've strengthened the funding of universities and colleges, we've made some changes to the funding system, and we've increased student support to make it easier for students to concentrate on the studies in their studies. The government also promotes several good proposals in the communication we are now discussing, which can help to improve the quality of higher education. It is a good idea to introduce requirements for basic pedagogical competence in employment in all professional positions, and it is a good idea to introduce a merit system that can help to value good teaching. But I think it is important, as many hearing bodies also point out, that a national framework is being developed for this merit system. It is not least important for scientific staff to be able to take this merit further into a new employment relationship. I therefore believe that the government should engage in dialogue with the sector in order to develop such a national framework. Then it's a good idea to set up research lines for more education, as an offer to students who are especially motivated for research. But at the same time, it is important that all students are given the opportunity to participate in research, and that the research lines are not established in a way that cuts off other students from that opportunity. It is a good proposal to introduce clearer incentives to stimulate progress and completion of degrees, but this should not be done by the conversion of loans into scholarships being linked to the completion of a study at a standard time. There may be many different reasons why some students need a little more time to complete their studies, and the purpose must be to launch a degree, not to punish those who need a little more time to complete. What is not a good proposal is to allow institutions to adopt their own admission requirements more fully. The government itself points out that this has several problematic aspects, and the Education students in the Education Association are among those who are critical, because they fear that this could lead to an A-layer and a B-layer within, for example, the EU. teacher training. Nor is it a good proposal to set up a new national educational quality competition venue. When the objective is improved quality, increasing competition is not always the best instrument. Increased competition is not necessary to increase quality, and it is not certain that it will contribute to it either. On the contrary, we can risk further strengthening those who are already good, while those who really need a quality promise are coming out worse than today. There is an unwise policy when the goal is high-quality education across the country. A last proposal that is also not particularly good is to allow universities and colleges to offer vocational education to a greater extent than today. There's a difference between colleges and colleges. This committee has high ambitions for the vocational schools, and we are committed to maintaining the special nature of vocational education. Then it's a bad idea to let the universities into this field. The last post-secondary education needs to be academic. That's why we have to let the universities do what's good at, and then we have to let the colleges do what's good at. In this Communication, therefore, it is both good and less good proposals, but it is all a good communication and an important day for the Norwegian education sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e320	Then the four-year period is soon over, and finally we are going to discuss quality in higher education. I have previously said that I believe the government has worked backwards in terms of higher education. The centre party believes it would have been more logical and sensible to start a discussion on quality, and then to ensure that both the funding system and the structure of the sector were changed, so that it would actually support quality work, both in education and in research. The status after this four-year period is a higher education sector consisting of eight universities and eight higher education institutions, of which several have university ambitions, as well as five universities. Only a few have concluded that they will stand alone. It's a paradox, but this transformation has happened without any particular discussion. My prediction is that the discussion does not come before the study offer is dropped. So to the message, what is the definition of quality? The overall objective of government is knowledge of new recognition, societal development and competitiveness, as well as competence, development and active participation in society. This may be a bit diffuse, but it should be common to all disciplines as well as to the sectoral objectives. In addition, the government believes that learning outcomes, relevance and implementation are essential for quality. The last points are the same as the basis for the Quality Reform in its time. Also at that time, the background analysis was as follows: Too little and too little research was made, and the goal was to increase learning outcomes. The flow rate was too low 20 years ago, and it is still. The relevance was not good enough, and the colleges and universities were not close enough to work. The government's responses to relevance, flow and learning outcomes lie mainly in the changed structure: join and grow. The same applies to the disbursement of the funding system: bring you together, and we will increase competition between each other by shifting more of the basic appropriations to the performance components. The government’s need for larger institutions has been raised to truth in the period. The question is whether it is well thought out. Let's do throughput: the statistics show that it's the smallest institutions that have the best throughput. They are the ones who produce most of the candidates for the broad professions that teach, nurse and engineer – professionals we need across the country. In the opinion of the Centre Party, the possibility of taking higher education regardless of where you live is a separate quality of our education system. But decentralised structure is not only about the number of campers, but also about where power and authority are located. As in all policies, this is also about the allocation of resources and conflicting interests within an institution. It is obvious that centralisation of power will put small disciplines in a more vulnerable position. So on student quality and learning outcomes: the quality reform contained many proper measures, but the measures had a limited impact on implementation. The National Audit Office also pointed this out in relation to the handover of Documents 3:8 for 2014-2015, the National Audit Office’s study of the implementation of higher education studies to the Stortinget: ‘The situation is similar to before the reform, and Norway is among the OECD countries with the weakest conduct of studies.’ Students continue to demand better follow-up. Once again, it is the smallest institutions that come out relatively well, both on follow-up and through-flow. The growth in the number of students has been enormous, but the larger institutions have unfortunately not been good enough to follow up. The financial system has also provided for some institutions to take up too many students and gamblers with someone falling off. It's unfortunate, and I hope they end up with it now. The centre party is strongly critical of the strong performance components of the funding system. In addition, the fact that completed degrees are expected to result in better counting than the number of study credits could lead to the need for institutions offering annual, continuing education and training to focus more on degree studies. This, in turn, could result in further pressure on important vocational training courses, especially in smaller places of study, and thus go beyond the overall objective of quality, which, in turn, may lead to fewer continuing training and, in total, less competence. Finally, I would like to mention that the Central Party is pleased that the majority in the UK does not want the universities and colleges to operate in specialised schools, and I am asking the university and higher education sectors to note this. We think it would be very unfortunate to combine the two educations, and that there is a danger that vocational education too would become more academic.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e355	Let me start with the criticism that Marianne Aasen raises, about the lack of investment in ICT. I fully agree that there is a great need for more places to study. I fully agree that we are not ashore, but I mean absolutely that we are on our way. We've given courses in ICT in the past. Not later than this hour. 10.00, when the revised national budget is presented, there are 250 new ICT places of study. We have a way to go, but we're definitely going, because this is what we're really going to do. Quality culture in higher education is a big message many have been waiting for. After large-scale investment in higher education and research in recent years, not least following a reform that has led to larger institutions, it is natural that we now also have the opportunity to discuss quality. One of the things that both the paper and the committee are raising is that the two core activities of our universities and colleges are education and research, and that they are equal. For the Left, the important thing is that we ensure our citizens a high-quality education and give everyone the opportunity to develop what they are good at and to acquire new knowledge and skills. Being a student is going to be one of the finest periods of life. But we also know that it can be quite demanding. Too many students are struggling mentally, and many are not spending enough time on their studies. These are things that matter to learning and implementation. I am therefore pleased that we have addressed this with mental health for students, but we still have a way to go. When it comes to repatriating the full-time student, I think we too are doing well. We build high-ranking student housing, which is important both to get a reasonable place to live and to get a good place to live. And in these days, the first week of what's going to be eleven months' student support is paid. There has long been a large majority who have wanted eleven months of study support, but a Left and Christian People's Party had to negotiate with the government to get it in place. In the programme for the forthcoming enlargement of the left, we have programmed that the study support will in the long term have to reach 1.5 G, so here it's just to keep working. In this case, the Left, together with the SV, promotes a proposal that the government should submit a proposal to give all students of higher education the right to a professional supervisor who will accompany them through the course of study. Through the feedback we get from students, we know that some of the things they are least satisfied with in their study is the professional follow-up. As a student, you are ready to be challenged professionally, but you also need support and guidance through the study period. Today, many students can go through the study without really having any special contact with the employees of the university or college. The left wants to fix this, and we think it's natural that students get a professional mentor who can support them through the studies. There is also something we know about from other countries. This is something NSO has asked for, and more people believe it can have an effect on the dropout we see in higher education. After Trump became president in the United States, we see a country that's more concerned with itself than they've been for a long time. Through Brexit, we also see a United Kingdom turning inwards instead of outwards. But if it's something we're totally dependent on cross-border functioning, it's education and research. Dissemination of knowledge and cross-border cooperation is a central task of the Academy. Especially for a small country like Norway, it is important that our students go out to study, and that we attract some of the smart minds abroad, so that they come to us. At regular intervals, issues arise where Norwegian students have studied abroad and in retrospect have difficulties in obtaining recognition of their education in Norway. This has been a challenge especially in the field of health. I am therefore pleased that the Committee is working together on a proposal asking the government to ensure that students travelling abroad are informed of whether the profession they are training for requires authorisation or approval, and whether the education in question will qualify for such recognition. There's a desperate situation for many of these students. I also refer to the solution proposed by Mr Vinje. This is something we have to try to avoid as far as it goes. It is a pity for the individual student who has an education she or he is not allowed to use at home in Norway, but it is at least as bad for society, who is not able to use valuable skills. There is a lot I could talk about in connection with this message, but at the end of the day, I just want to deal with the suggestions that the Left is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e374	The representative Iselin Nybø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e380	Available and good universities and colleges are an important prerequisite for ensuring and further developing both a well-functioning democracy and a society that can meet the skills needs of both society and working life in the future. It is therefore essential, not least at a time when the economic inequality is growing, to ensure an education system in which everyone has equal rights to education and where institutions and students are given the framework conditions that enable them to achieve high quality education. Therefore, the SV is concerned that the basic appropriations need to be increased, and we are critical of several of the measures in the Communication, which we believe will contribute to increased competition for resources in a way that could both threaten academic freedom, undermine the free principle and lead to unnecessary centralisation. Therefore, the SV does not support the government’s proposal to introduce a national competition venue. The Government's ambition that funding for higher education should be based more on competition is to weaken cooperation between students, researchers, professional environments and institutions and to weaken employees' working conditions in terms of less predictability and increased temporaryity. That's the wrong way to go. Free education is a pillar both for our democracy, for the welfare state and for the fight against inequality. A society that provides free education, with the opportunities that it gives, is something that we all earn. It is therefore important to focus on the free principle and good universal support schemes. We believe that the government's proposal to change the study aid scheme is motivating. There are many reasons why some students do not complete education at a normal time. Students who have children, who have physical or mental health challenges, or who have financial concerns are some examples of students who may have less study progress than others. Therefore, we will warn against changes that favour the fresh, well-adapted full-time student at the expense of good universal support schemes and the weakening of students' general rights. The results of the 2015 study barometer contain very clear signals that students are too little part of a professional community. Therefore, SV agrees with the Norwegian student organisation that changes are needed to ensure that students receive better help in choosing a professional direction for their studies. That is why, together with the Left, we are promoting proposals to give all students in higher education the right to a professional supervisor, who will follow them through the course of study. We are also concerned that student representatives will become an opportunity for all students. The NSO has called for all institutions to be required to have a student representative. We agree with that, and we propose it together with other parties. The situation of teacher training is worrying. The applicant numbers for primary school teacher training from 1 to 7. and 5-10. This spring goes down. The government's misunderstood math-related recording requirements have further exacerbated this problem. We believe it is important that measures for teacher training which can do something about this are now being followed up. We are also concerned that the master's programme for primary school teachers who are now coming should be both professional and research-based for all students. All masters must qualify for further doctoral studies, given that they have a qualification level that qualifies for admission. That's why we don't see the need to establish research lines. Finally, a few words about the Y way. SV believes that it is more necessary to facilitate the specificity of the different training courses and to be governed on their own premises. Unfortunately, the government has not made a single proposal in this communication on admission based on real competence. The Y-route is referred to as an exception to the general study qualification requirement for admission based on professional competence from higher education to specially organised study programmes within the engineering study. We know that for many years the graduate candidates have made it clear better than ordinary students in comparable theoretical subjects, and have had a greater degree of implementation. That's why we think it's time to extend the Y-way further to other disciplines.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e397	I am pleased that the Committee has had a thorough review of the notification and the framework for quality of education. In this setting, there are also a number of issues that have been addressed in other contexts, but which may equally be of importance for quality of education. Under this government there has been no severance in the university and higher education sectors. Already early in the government period, we put forward what we wanted to do, and we've followed up. Quality has been the leading star of work all the way. We have increased appropriations, we have introduced a new funding system, we have invested heavily and massively in research, among other things. through a long-term plan that not only contained beautiful words but also had binding rapprochement plans, we have implemented a structural reform that has changed the Norwegian university and higher education landscape, in order to create better and more sustainable academic environments, we have introduced a new teacher education, a five-year master's education, students are now receiving eleven months of student support, and record-breaking student housing is being built. This quality message is a follow-up to all this work. The quality as such in the Norwegian higher education sector is not bad at all, it is consistently good in many ways, and the best practice we have in Norway is well compared to the best we find internationally. One example: In the last Shanghai ranking in the category Sport Science, Norway's sports school is no. 4 out of 360 in the world, no. 2 in Europe and No 1 in the North. Equally full is this entire government's mantra that there's always room for improvement, that it doesn't last when the whole world is betting on knowledge and research, that we're doing well -- we have to be excellent, we have to have higher ambitions. Our starting point is that the quality of education becomes local at the institutions in meetings between students and between teachers and students. If the quality of education is to be raised, it is precisely here that there is a need for change. Therefore, the principle of the communication is also to give confidence to the institutions, not unilaterally to have more governance and regulation on the part of the ministry, even if we also propose powerful action. We're not afraid to control the sector, but there's enough ideological difference in the government's approach to how universities and colleges should be governed, and parts of the opposition's approach, which want more detailed management of what should be largely autonomous institutions, of course within the established political framework. Leading a university and a college is complex and challenging. There are many things that separate academic leadership jobs from other leadership jobs. There are many critical voices and resistance. You can also find that elsewhere, but in the academy, it's a necessary ingredient. Professional freedom is essential to enable so complex organisations with a diversity of education to carry out good quality development and innovation. It is the administrations that have to take responsibility and balance all these considerations when managing their responsibility for the quality of education. Therefore, increasing the quality of education requires more than State detail management, in fact, state detail management can often be counterproductive. It requires continuous work. That's why we're doing that in the communication, but nevertheless there are tough priorities and hard work in the institutions and in the professional environments that will really make a difference. The key is that institutions have ownership of the measures, with room for local adaptation to the professional profile. The subjects, students and studies are different, with different problems and different solutions, complexity is high, and all this speaks for local solutions. What we want to achieve with the message is, of course, higher quality in education, and then it has to teach a little higher status. We simply have to cultivate a culture where being an excellent teacher is just as given as being an excellent researcher, or as the representative Tyvand said: get rid of that one ‘requirement for education’ and the other ‘free of research’. We have seven targets for the message. It's all students shall meet demanding and engaging studies; meeting all students as responsible participants in their own learning and being well integrated into the social and academic community; the study programmes shall have clear learning objectives and soundness and coherence; that all students should meet active and varied learning and assessment methods, exploiting the digital opportunities; the development of study programmes in cooperation with the labour market; that all students shall meet with a high level of professional and educational competence; appreciating education and education There is no simple recipe for how to build a quality culture, but in the message we suggest several things to make it easier to take this responsibility. We propose, for example: higher education institutions and higher education institutions should be able to impose stricter admission requirements, such as: to professional immersion or to grades other than those applicable at national level. It will give clear signals that the professional prerequisites that students must have in order to pass the studies must be present, and it will also give institutions greater scope for action. Today you have a certain opportunity to do this, but there is a system where you have to apply to the ministry for permission. We need to have study programmes with a solid knowledge base developed in close cooperation with the workforce and the students themselves. Then we need to modernise and transform the forms of teaching, and we need to have a good link between ambitious and relevant expectations of learning outcomes, learning and teaching activities and, in particular, assessment forms that build on the desired learning outcomes. All institutions need to go through their study programmes to ensure this. We want to demand sensor guidance on all exams. Systematic use of it will contribute to the quality assurance of the established learning outcomes. This Communication shall enhance the quality of Norwegian higher education. At the same time, we also call for us to be even more good at investing in the talents of higher education, among other things. by stimulating the development of offers for the most talented and motivated students and the use of research lines in several studies. We propose a merit system – that all universities and colleges should have merit systems. It is a central and important part of raising the status of education. Furthermore, we propose that basic pedagogical skills and educational skills should be required for employment in all professional positions. We also need to assess whether we have good enough career paths to focus on education. We will continue to work to compare job structure and career opportunities with those of other countries and to look at the possibility and needs of possible changes in the Norwegian job structure and career opportunities. We propose to consider the use of a profession as a professor of practice, just to connect the working life more closely, and then we propose to establish a national competitive venue or arena where educational environments can apply for additional resources to develop good education. It is important for me to stress that it is not about the introduction of a new competitive indicator in the funding system, but that it is an arena for mobilising professional environments and educational innovators to the knowledge-based development of education, to disseminate good educational practices by requiring peer evaluation and providing education and good teachers with visibility, performance and support. Today it's 0.6 pst. by the means of training which are illuminated through the competitive arena. In comparison, it's about 20 pst. of the research funds. Even in the case of stepping up competitive support for education, this will form a minimal part of the overall budget for higher education. At the same time, it is important to say that this is not a continuation of schemes we already have today to develop good education, for example. The SFUs. It's to hit the upper secondary education. It is based on the same principles of assessment and competition that are quite common and well-known in the academy, and why it should be an abomination in terms of education, I have difficulty understanding. At the same time, we want to make it easier for the students. We're going to gather all the information that says something about study quality, in one quality portal, to make it easier for them to compare the offers. At the same time, we do not know enough about what the Norwegian labour market needs in the future. It is therefore also important to mention in this context that the government has set up a selection of skills to help identify what Norway needs. A few weeks ago, we were able to read in Today's Economy about the 22 factories that Borregaard has at its plant in Sarpsborg – factories where wood is treated before shipping into the world as raw material for everything from building materials to cosmetics. In 1966, there were 4,000 people working there. Today it's only 750. To keep production going at the 22 factories, only 25 people are needed on each shift. It's a 10-year half-life. This is what it's all about in practice when we're talking about words like robotization and digitization. And when we talk about developing a culture of quality, it's also about developing the ability to constantly renew to take care of some of the basic features of our higher education system. We know that we are going to need professionals in a whole range of areas, both in the social, humanities and technical fields and in our major welfare professions. All of these students are going to get a high-quality education.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e465	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e470	Four years ago we adopted in this Chamber a unanimous long-term plan for higher education and research. In addition, we also agreed, on a proposal from the Right, that we should have a report on quality in higher education. It was also unanimous. So the Right and Torbjørn Røe Isaacen came into the government offices, and I figured that the first thing that happened then was that they made a long-term plan for research and higher education and a big message about higher education. But that didn't happen. We got the long-term plan, and there was hardly any higher education. So we're now in the last month of these four years dealing with quality in higher education. Was it hard to write this big message? Were you empty of ideas? Wasn't it important enough, or what's the reason why this is the last thing you deliver in this big time period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e479	We can certainly discuss the order of things, but the truth is that during this period there have been greater changes for Norwegian higher education than likely in 20 years. We presented a long-term plan – and that is quite right, it could have had even more on higher education – that set a new standard for research policy in Norway by having binding concrete promises of escalation. We thought it was important to start with what had been left hanging and disrupting the sector for many, many years, namely the idea of cooperation and concentration, i.e. structural reform. It took a lot of energy in the sector to have non-committal conversations and flirtations without getting married and merged. That's the first thing we did, but of course with quality as a starting point. It's a natural follow-up to the fact that we start quality education and deliver this message. Then I think the message, and in particular the support it receives from the majority of the Storting show that there has been no lack of good ideas and good action.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e488	In another room on the Stortinget, while we've been sitting here, the agreement for the revised national budget has been published between the government parties and the Left and Christian People's Party. On the list agreed, there are 250 places to study in ICT, and the price of that is 14.3 million. kr. At the December state budget reading, the majority adopted 500 new ICT places of study. It was 136, so it was a significantly lower number in reality. Why does the Council of State say one number, and why is it in the agreement, when the real numbers of institutions are much lower? What is the real number of these 250 ICT students from the fall of?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e495	Although, of course, we provide information to those on the Stortinget who sit and negotiate, I have not looked at the final figures in the budget agreement. It came at 4 p.m. 10, when I sat in here. Those details I have to take the next time. However, with regard to these 500 study places in the budget, it is quite right that the representative Aasen says – and also in the budget agreement – that there are 500 new study places, but no new coal is being financed. That is, one gets funded one coal, but not new coal. In the case of the number 136 from the Coordinated Recording, that doesn't give the full picture. We've been looking around this a little bit. Most institutions may refer to an increase in line with assumptions. But it is that one institution has a slightly lower admission because an extra expensive study offer is offered. Three of the institutions need to use the resources to develop the study offer before start-up, a shift from 2017 to 2018. Two of the institutions have chosen to allocate the fixation evenly over three years, giving a lower admission in the first year and then a gradual build-up. It is also worth mentioning that there are several places of study that are ICT-relevant without thus becoming part of the ICT category in Coordinated Recording.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e504	One of the things the students give feedback about is that they don't feel good enough professional follow-up through their study. We know that this varies enormously between institutions and between studies. There are studies where you can go through an entire course of study almost without talking to a professor or other professional staff at the university or college. We know that being a student is tough, and that the professional follow-up can also help with the drop-out, which is actually a problem in this sector. Now SV and Left have joined forces on a proposal where we want a mentoring system. The Labour Party also has a proposal that does not go as far as the Left and SVs. I wonder, what does the Council of State see? What will the government do to follow the students professionally in a better way than what we do today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e509	The whole starting point for this communication is, to put it slightly simplified, that what students were promised in the context of the major university and higher education reform at the beginning of the 2000s, the quality reform, was not fulfilled. There was not much closer follow-up of the students or much higher educational quality etc. This means, among other things: that all the grips we're doing, e.g. In order to strengthen teachers, in order to strengthen their programmes, students intend to receive better follow-up and better education. There are several proposals here that different minorities are behind, which in themselves are good proposals. It's a very good idea if a university wants to have a mentoring system. I also think there's someone working on it, like the University of Bergen. The problem is that the sum of all these detailed adjustments becomes too large. I believe that we must, in general, set some framework, but not go in and govern the institutions in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e516	The Christian People's Party and the Red-Green parties promote a proposal in the position where we ask the government to come back with a proposal for a change of law that obliges all educational institutions to establish a student representative, either alone or in cooperation with others. The Government Parties and the Left respond that they believe that the institutions themselves must choose whether to have their own student representative or to organise that role in a different way, and that they will therefore not support the proposal that all institutions be required to have their own student representative. But we do not suggest that all institutions should have their own student representative. We will give the institutions the freedom to assess whether to set up their own representative, or whether to do so in cooperation with others. If we agree that it is important that all students have access to a student ombudsman in some way and in some form, can the Council of State then promise that he will take the initiative for a legislative change that will ensure it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e521	No, I can't do that. Student counsellors are good, but I believe that again there is one of the matters that is unnecessary detailed management of the universities and colleges, and that they must be allowed to decide for themselves. It's worth remembering that, unlike for example. bullying agents, which we are discussing in this Chamber, who are to represent children and young people attending school, have developed student democracy at universities. Of course, you have student councils and stuff in school too, but that's a different situation. That means that the student democracy, the elected, student-elected representatives, are also representatives. It's a good idea with student representatives, for all things, if you want to start it. But I'm a little skeptical about saying that if you don't have a student representative, the students have no speakers, because I don't think that's a proper description of the universities and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e529	As I said in my post, it's a bit of a paradox that we're here now, approx. 20 years after the Quality Reform, and actually discuss the same things that were discussed then, both through-flowing, learning outcomes, relevance and how we can increase the quality of higher education. It was also the whole purpose of the quality reform. The statistics show that it's the smallest institutions that have the best statistics, and I'll say it's like this, as we also talk about on the school page, that with more teachers per student it's easier to be seen and easier to be followed up. Then I want to ask a question to the Council of State, whether he can spin around a little bit if it might be too tempting for the institutions to attract extra funds, so run after this with doctorate, doctoral thesis, and become a university rather than thinking about the best quality for the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e538	At least that's how we work. Also, the message states that it is very visible when you are rewarded for research, for example. publications or awards from the Research Council. While the quality of education, which really constitutes a much larger part of the universities and colleges are paid for, because just completion and credits are the most important, are a little less visible. This may have led to, and has probably led to, higher levels of research, higher priorities than good education. That is precisely why this message comes, and it is precisely why this message is so important. I believe that we have put in a good way the process of becoming a university, to ensure that it also leads to a quality increase. But it is important to say that a university title itself does not automatically make you look better, for example. to provide good teaching.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e543	I would also like to come back to the matter of student representatives, because I think it would be too easy to compare student representatives with the students' elected representatives. They're going to be the students' voices in university and university democracy, while an ombudsman's role, as we're talking about here, often comes into the moment you, for example. has a more legal conflict between an institution and a student, which will be difficult to deal with both for a student on its own and for the student trustees. I think it's funny that the government parties in the vote use the autonomy of the institutions as an argument, because this is a government that is very eager to control the institutions in detail, for example. in the case of the economic system, where the Council of State will impose competition and go far into the details of the functioning of the institutions. So this is not really a matter of principle about autonomy, but about what you think is so important that it should be subject to national governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e550	I do not agree with that. Universities and colleges have a great deal of self-determination in economics, but we also have opinions about how the funding system is to be built up, that's quite obvious. Of course, it is a political task that we should think about how the funding system is. But it's something quite different to go into universities and colleges and detailed government how they run their economy. In the case of student representatives, there is a lot of positive about that arrangement. I guess that's also why it's growing up in more places. Our argument is simply that if we're going to do all these individual measures that different minorities on the Grand Duchy want, the sum of it becomes a larger detail management of the universities and colleges. There's no reason to think that it'll end here, there'll probably be more such proposals in the future as well. Then it's important to say no. Then it's only worth mentioning in the end that the Norwegian student organisation, which is very for student representatives, may not get through to it, but they've got a very big breakthrough in the rest of this message – so big that they made cake when it came.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e559	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e564	There are now more than a quarter of a million students in Norway. They are to fill important professionals as teachers and nurses, and they are to compete with engineers from China, designers from India and researchers from the United States – unless Donald Trump puts the education system in its midst – and they are to enter an ever-changing labour market. Then quality is crucial. Therefore, it is positive that the quality notification came — finally and in a high time — in time for it to be treated just before this large-scale period is over. But I just have to say, despite the Minister of Knowledge's last reply in the lines, that the result is halfway. For the students, it is said that the message came, and there are several good actions in the message. But the most obvious thing for the students is all the proposals that are not supported – such as the national merit system, digital assessment as a general rule, student ombudsman, mentoring for students, new living conditions survey, concrete career guidance measures or removing the uncertainty about student support. The Workers' Party wants more offensive measures for the students. One example is digital assessment. We are in the midst of a digital revolution, and there is no reason to have lower ambitions for higher education or for students than for other sectors. That is why the Labour Party, together with other parties, has a proposal for a decision calling on the Government to: ‘make digital evaluation and assessment the general rule in higher education’. It will release time, it will provide opportunities to give better and closer follow-up and guidance to students, and then we'll be well on our way to digitalizing the entire examination process. Unfortunately, the majority are against. The Workers' Party also wants student representatives. There are several institutions today that have it, such as the University of Oslo, the University of Tromsø and NTNU. They say it works well. The working party believes that this is something all students should benefit from. The NSO is in favour, and the University and Higher Education Council supports it, and a majority of the Committee writes: ‘A student representative is an independent actor with legal competence who can provide legal advice and assistance to students and who can follow up matters relating to students’ rights and duties in everyday study.’; Unfortunately, this proposal does not have a majority in the Chamber – the Right, the Advance Party and the Left put their feet down. The Workers' Party also wants a mentoring scheme for students. Students are expected to be awarded a professional mentor at the start of their studies, who is a personal contact person for guidance and en route selection. We know that follow-up and guidance have a very positive effect on progression and non-response. That is why the Workers' Party has proposed a mentoring scheme for several consecutive years. Unfortunately, it does not get a majority in the Chamber. Then the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV propose to conduct a new living conditions survey. These living conditions surveys have been carried out several times by the Ministry of Knowledge. They give a general overview of students’ study relationships, health, housing, family life, leisure habits, economics and employment — perhaps the most complete overview we have of the students’ life situation. However, the last life-cycle survey was carried out in 2010, and despite the fact that it has been included here several times, a new life-cycle survey has not yet been launched. It should have been. If we're going to have the right measures for the students, we need up-to-date information. Unfortunately, the government has said no to that, and they continue to do so today. When it comes to student support, the message is unfortunately a little fuzzy, and the right and right parts of the project are not working on it in the setup. That's why the Workers' Party, together with other parties, says that we're afraid that the changes can restrict students' rights to how the support schemes work today, and we assume that it doesn't happen. As far as mental health is concerned, we know that there is a greater incidence of mental health problems among students than in the rest of the population, and to be honest, work is going on improving the mental health situation too slowly. Having mental problems affects the study situation and progress, and there we should have had more offensive measures. I would like to thank the students, the Norwegian student organisation in particular, for making many good contributions to this message. The message would have been much better if the Right and Advance Party had also agreed not only to say no to the good suggestions for the students who have come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e598	It is an important and good notification the Committee has addressed here. A notification is also necessary. There is a lot of good work done at national universities and colleges, but there is also a great potential for improvement. Not least, we see that through the great decline in higher education. In addition to the fact that non-response is expensive both in terms of money and experience for the individual student, the large non-response cost the state enormous sums each year. Better counselling in secondary and secondary education is an important tool here, but also the individual higher education institutions have a great responsibility that they need to take more seriously. The progress party believes that there needs to be more emphasis on the individual student. Students have an independent duty to do their best and to be able to do their best requires good follow-up and education on the part of universities and universities. Here's a lot to go on. In Norway, the terms ‘educational obligation’ and ‘research-free’ are used. This gives wrong signals and undermines the importance of academic institutions training good students by providing high-quality education. Traditionally, the teaching role has just been central and connected with high status. The word ‘doctor’ comes from the Latin word ‘docre’, which means to teach, which in turn is abbreviated from the Latin ‘licentia docendi’, which means license to teach – and this meant that you had the right to lecture at universities. In this area, Norwegian educational institutions should take lessons and inspiration from the United States, where the role of teacher has a higher status. American professor Robert Marc Friedman is among those who have taught both in the United States and Norway, and Friedman has noticed that teaching and student contacts have a higher status among academics in the United States than in Norway: he has stated the following: ‘If a professor received less than 85 per cent of the student's evaluation at my institute at the University of San Diego, he or she was called to the institute's board of directors to explain himself. In several elite universities, employees are informed that they cannot put research ahead of education.» Students have the right to good education and a good working environment. In order to optimise this situation, a number of good measures are proposed in the communication from the government. The party notes that of the measures that have been discussed for many years, a student representative scheme is. Among those who have fought for this long time is the Norwegian Student Organisation, which has made good and concrete contributions to the message. It also includes a legislative amendment proposal requiring all higher education institutions to establish a student representative, either alone or in cooperation with other institutions. We in the Progress Party have a great deal of understanding of this proposal. Many suggest that there is a need for an independent actor with legal competence who can provide students with legal advice and assistance, and who can follow up on matters relating to the student's rights and duties in everyday study. However, we in the Progress Party believe that such a legal requirement is one for direct intervention in the institutions' right of self-determination. The autonomy of institutions must also apply to the organisation of student offers. The Progress Party believes that each institution itself must choose whether to have a student ombudsman. However, we would stress that we have a clear expectation that the institutions themselves are conscious of their responsibilities. We will also point out that several of our most important educational institutions have already set up student offices, and that we think this is positive. Finally, I would like to stress that the Progress Party is very pleased with the two proposals in this case concerning students who have completed professional studies abroad, but who do not receive authorisation in Norway as a result of changed practices in the Health Directorate. These are long and demanding studies, and there is no doubt that Norway needs this competence. It is important that the students involved receive clarification as soon as possible. With the proposals, the Progress Party hopes that the existing issues will be cleared up, while at the same time ensuring that similar issues are avoided in the future. A lot is at stake for these students, and they really deserve clarification as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e624	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e629	Over the last decades, there has become a greater autonomy and autonomy for our universities and colleges, and that's good. Autonomy means that the institutions themselves are far on the road responsible for quality in education. However, that does not mean that political responsibility is removed. When we deal with this big message here today, it's in many ways the last piece of the puzzle in this big period, even though quality work is a continuous process. The objectives set out in the message shall contribute to the education focus in the UH sector being as clear and strong as the research mission has been. It will strengthen both quality and implementation. We have heard in this process and today that the opposition parties – with the finger on the repeat button – are talking about too little too late. But I believe that the government has put stones on quality work – with the long-term plan for research and higher education in the autumn of 2014, with the grossing up message on structure in higher education in the spring of 2015, with the technical school message, which makes it clear the position of the professionals in the higher education system, and not least by giving students power back in the relationships, and with the other measures that have strengthened the students' rights and situation during this major period. This government has taken the students seriously. When students see this as their big message, it is about wanting and getting an education that is relevant to working life and equips them for the future. This is a clear call for universities and colleges to take the lead and ensure that students’ ability to adapt, convert and renew is rehearsed through the studies, so that they become innovative, attractive and productive workers — not only in the early stages of their studies, but also in the longer term. There is a lot in the message I might have liked to comment on, but I am particularly concerned with the relevance of working life. There is a big difference between how institutions cooperate with the world of work today. At the same time, we know that this is important for students' motivation. At the University of Agder, President Frank Reichert recently went out and said that during 2017, the university will have a plan for what is going on for all 13 000 students to have the opportunity to test their knowledge in a working life practice during the study period. It's nice and quite ambitious. I hope that this quality message will help students to feel that the interaction between research, education and practice is getting better and closer. Everyone deserves it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e642	Nearly 290,000 people, over 35 pst. of which between 19 and 24 years of age, are currently studying at a higher education institution. In ten years, the number has increased by some 66 000 students. It's mainly the girls who have taken a large amount of stomachs in numbers, and they are today in a clear majority of students. That was the quantity -- what about the quality, which is the starting point for today's debate? Two years ago, the Stortinget and the Church, Education and Research Committee debated Meld. St. 18 for 2014–2015 Concentration on Quality — Structural Reform in the Higher Education Sector. A few months earlier, the first long-term plan for research and higher education was considered. And even though culture eats structure for lunch, as a state secretary in the Department of Knowledge tends to say, they in many ways left the basis for what we are debating today. Having an appropriate structure is crucial to achieving a better quality culture. The structural reform was a reform which is very little discussed today, which was well received in the sector and which can already show positive results. The institution I know best, NTNU, is currently educating not only civil engineers, but also engineers. It educates not only psychologists, but also social anthropologists. It not only educates doctors, but also nurses. I think there are few who want to go back to the time when doctors and nurses basically didn't talk together until they started working at St. Olav's Hospital or another hospital. Obviously, it does something about the quality of education. It is clear that it does something about quality when the institutions are receiving a call formechanism with concrete escalation plans, which are followed up year after year, as has been done with the long-term plan. That's why I think it's a little hollow and groundless criticism opposition coming along when they claim that this government has done nothing to promote quality in education. Of course, it's the opposition's privilege to criticise – something that this opposition does for the rest of the time, we've become accustomed to – but I would have liked it sometimes to be better addressed than what it is. Fortunately, there is also some self-criticism — I think it makes sense — when they refer to the National Audit Office's report and evaluation of the Quality Reform, which takes into account the years up to 2013. I think the government has presented a good, but not least a concrete, big message. I believe that at the end of the day it boils down to the fact that it must be more attractive to teach in higher education. As many people have experienced before today, there has been a long discussion in the sector of ‘educational obligations’ and ‘research-free’. It is among the concepts that have built up the artificial distinction between research and education. I am pleased that this is addressed with concrete policy, and that hopefully something is finally happening to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e655	I want to say that I think it's very good that we remember each other about the Riksrevision report, so that we don't go into traps and do exactly what we did in the last ten years. Because that's very stupid of us. I also think it is important to remember that the funding system also helps to establish whether we have quality in the university and higher education sectors. Because if the money and the shine are in something that the universities and colleges want to stretch to, it's not certain that we're just reaching this with flow, relevance and learning outcomes. What I was going to use the three-minute post was to talk a little bit about the teacher's training, because the new teacher's training is going to start in the fall. We in the Center Party are a little surprised and a little disappointed that this government barely mentions teacher training in the message. Thus, unlike previous governments, today's government believes that a discussion in the United Kingdom about such important professional training, quality and content is not necessary. I think that's actually a little eye-catching. I think it would be wise for the government to invite the Storting to a debate on this. Last year I traveled an interpellation on the arrangements of the new teacher training, just to get a discussion about experience and the necessary measures to increase the quality and relevance of education. The fact that only a few years have passed since primary school teachers were divided into two, that there are a small number of applicants, and that character requirements have changed should in itself provide a basis for a debate. So I would like to reiterate my concern about the very core of professional training, the emphasis of practice. Theory and practice hand in hand are important for many training courses, but perhaps especially important for teacher training. Then I have recorded that a strategy was put forward for the new teacher training yesterday, and that it points to different measures there. It is well and good, but the number of days in practice, as I understand it, is not extended beyond the extra ten days that we have been notified of in the past. In our opinion, there would be a strength for teacher training if the number of days of practice had been expanded, and I would also ask the government to ensure that practical schools, or university schools, or what someone will now call it, beyond the whole country, so that schools further away from teacher training institutions will also have the opportunity to contribute with their experience and participate in the motivational injection it is actually to have students in practice. We have to make sure that as many teachers as possible complete their studies. Many of them are supposed to be teachers in District Norway. Therefore, I regret that the Stortinget has not been able to discuss new teacher training, and the government does not ensure that we discuss teacher training in connection with this message about quality in higher education, which the government had the chance to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e667	There is one thing I want to address here, because it threatens what is mentioned in the message, and it concerns internationalisation. It is the unpredictable framework conditions for the recognition and authorisation of foreign education, especially in the field of health. We've heard cases about doctors trained in Poland who have the threat hanging over them that they won't get authorization. That matter was settled in. Now there's another thing about psychologists in Hungary. After contacting many students, I am both stated and frustrated by the treatment they receive from the Norwegian authorities. Decisions shall be taken retrospectively. Education has been authorized and approved, and people have in good faith gone to Hungary to study to become a psychologist. It's withdrawn. At the same time, students are in practice, which means they don't get authorization, and they're just a few months away. There is a long period of time in the specific cases where this has happened. There is controversy and discussion about the facts, there is little information for the people concerned, the case has been complained to ESA, the case has been filed with the civil ombudsman, and now employers are starting to report – which is unable to get other employees in place, because there is a lack of clinical psychologists in Norway today. Then we have candidates who are almost in goal, and what they need is some supplement to their education, and I think the government has to put that in place. If not, then the students are going out when we say they're going out to take education, which we need to do. Today, a proposal from the government parties to ask the government to consider possible measures is promoted. It's too defensive. This matter must only be settled, it should not only be assessed, and it must be cleared up quite quickly. Training enough psychologists is hardly realistic in Norway. It is hardly realistic during this government – as many counter-conceptions as you have against creating new places of study. There is only one way to do this: they are trained abroad and they have compensatory measures for what they may be lacking. There have been a lot of things about this in recent years, and it's hardly going to be any fewer in the years to come. We have a single market for education in Europe, and we have Norwegians leaving, we have people from other countries in Europe, the EEA and EFTA coming to Norway, and the time is ripe to look at the entire authorisation system. It proposes the Workers' Party and is supported by some parties, but not by a majority. I think that's stupid. I wish we could get a review of it, there are many, many years since it happened. The education is now recognized by the creti and pelti, I should have said, by various directorates that are not necessarily close to the Department of Knowledge and have a lot to do with education. It would have been nice to get the Council's assessment of that particular situation. What's he going to do with the Stortinge proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e680	I would like the Council of State and the Government parties to support the proposal to oblige all institutions to set up a student representative, either alone or in cooperation with others. When the government parties write in the statement that they believe it must be up to the institutions how they organize and take care of what is the role of the student ombudsman, I would have expected the Council of State at least to ensure that such an offer exists at all institutions, and not just point to the student democracy. That's a bad answer. It doesn't help students like this. feels that they are not being granted their rights or that they end up in a dispute with an institution, that the Council of State Røe Isaksen points out that they have a student parliament, or that the representative Sandaune says that she expects the institutions to be responsible for it. What they need is an independent agent who can assist them, and I had hoped that the Storting today would guarantee all students that opportunity. Then I just want to warn that the Christian People's Party is going to vote for proposal No. 2 in the position, a proposal from the Workers' Party to determine how a mentoring system in higher education can be established. We believe it would be a good step forward to give students better follow-up and to prevent rejection, but we believe that an investigation is needed on how this should be done, before the Storting decides that this should be a right for all students.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e689	Thank you very much for the debate. I want to say something about the two very specific questions I got, the first from the representative Tingelstad Wøien. It is quite right that the question of a five-year master's education for teachers is not dealt with in this paper, and that is, of course, because it is intended and adopted. Then it is also that in practice this has been contained in budgetary documents, and it has been mentioned in budgetary documents, so I believe that the Stortinget has been given a good opportunity to stop it, if you were interested in it. Of course, the pluralities have also been given the opportunity to record it. Then we actually came yesterday with a strategy for teacher training, not a new reform, but a strategy for teacher training, such as: say something about the number of days of practice – which is otherwise a minimum and not a maximum. At least as important is the way in which practice days are used, the way in which practice is organised in schools. One of the things we announced yesterday was that we should use – the money was already in there, but we distributed – 44.5 million. to teacher training institutions throughout the country, just to finance partnerships with practical schools. Someone's been talking about colleges like that before. We haven't chosen to call it that, because of course there's more than one university that has a teacher's education. The largest teacher education is in colleges, so we've called it teacher education schools and teacher education kindergartens. This does not mean that you can have a special agreement with each and every practical school — which makes them or builds on the model of university schools, such as them. are in Trondheim — but they should be models for developing practice. So ask Marianne Aasen about the students who don't get the approval of their education. Just to say that, it's not hard to understand the frustration of the students. The representative of Aasen and others have been concerned about this before, and know well about the system where the authorization is located in each department. In other words, the Ministry of Health is specifically responsible for these authorisations, but I think I can certainly say that in the same way as all other things the Stortinget asks the government to do, this too will be followed up if it should have a majority. We have also done a great deal with the recognition of foreign education and authorizations, among other things. have we notified in a notice that we should simplify the system, gather the information and make it easier for the users. We have also given some new problems, including: with the approval of vocational training and vocational education, so that they are now responsible for their recognition throughout the course. It is also now in the revised budget that these 10 million. kr, which went into the previous budgetary settlement, has now come back in, so NOKUT will then get even a little more muscles to carry out the tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e700	Given that this may be one of the most important debates this committee has during the big time period, I have to say that I fully share with my co-representative Marianne Aasen's wonder that this is a matter that comes entirely at the brink of a four-year period. For eight years we heard that especially the Right Party, but also the Advance Party, was impatient about what the red-green government delivered. You'd think you'd put a lot of effort on the chair to start with all your new ideas and better solutions, but then you'd go four years before you get a big message that we honestly have to say is relatively crazy when it comes to the big measures. We have had a four-year period of very low growth in the number of students, at a time when we have 70,000 young people under 30 years of age outside of work and education. We have barely had initial investment in the sector. It's been a rest slice in many ways. 16 years ago, a major reform of higher education was carried out. Cand. Mag. and the main subject of Bachelor and Master, we introduced conversion schemes on the student loan side, we increased the grant share by NOK 10 000, we made major changes in the governance structure – none of this is seen in the message that is now here. A government that talks about productivity and efficiency in the economy should be extremely concerned about the waste of tens of thousands of students spending many years extra on their education. It does not cost society €60,000 extra in student debt, it costs $600,000, $700,000, $800,000 a year in lost GDP per year per student. There are tens of billions of dollars disappearing in the social economy, as well as the quality and intensity of education being too low. You should do something about this. But this is repeated in reform after reform — police, local authorities, universities and higher education. What's this about? It's about merging, getting bigger units, and that's the easiest thing to do, really, without doing what's hard to do with the content, the governance structure, the quality, the resource allocation -- what's actually going on. Now we're about to graduate colleges under state control. Everyone's going to be a university sooner or later. Is that a deliberate act? Is there a wish from the Right that there should now be no difference? Now Nesna has become a university, and now the Nord-Trøndelag University has become a university. You don't have a state-owned college north of Dovre. This happens almost without debate, without purpose and without meaning. There's going to be another click on this after the choice. In this way, we will focus on the flow, quality, intensity, governance, resource use, investment in more than one study site, investment in building stock and, above all, facilitate the lifelong learning project needed by the business community of the future and the public sector and education systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e715	The representative, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e720	First, I would like to thank the representative Giske for stressing what I used my five-minute post on, which was just about structure. What I thought I would say, as I forgot instead, is that the Central Party wants to support proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. I would encourage both the Left and the SV to support that proposal, because that means that we'll get a little bit on the way to getting a mentoring system in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e727	A small explanation of vote: together with the Left, we have proposed that students in higher education should be entitled to a professional supervisor who will follow them through the course of study. We believe that there will be an important mechanism to ensure both professional inclusion and better follow-up. Such a system will function in such a way that a permanent supervisor is assigned at the start of the study and then the student follows up throughout the course of the study as far as possible and acts as a contact person both for guidance and for choice of study. We think it'll be important to make sure that more people get the help they need to choose a professional direction for their studies. Then we see the proposal that the Labour Party has made, as somewhat less concrete, but nevertheless as a proposal that draws in the same direction. That is why, earlier today, we have also announced that we will support it subsidiaryly, and hope that we can contribute to it by a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e734	At the bottom of the debate, I just have to comment on Trond Giske's play that this period has been marked by pause and rest. That makes me just have to take the word, because it's on itself you know others, you could say. This government already started in its very first budget to raise investments in higher education and research historically. The first thing we did was to promote a long-term plan. So after we had raised the budgets and the student economy, we put forward the structural message, and now we're presenting the quality report. All these major issues contribute to raising the quality of higher education, because higher education is not quality unless it is high quality in institutions and a strong professional environment. We have worked systematically throughout the period of lifting higher education and research. The Red-Green Government had the Star Island Committee, which pointed to the structural problems and made clear recommendations on structural changes already in 2008. The red-green government put this in a drawer. We are already seeing the results of the Right Policy: there are major structural changes and the quality of the professional environment is improving. In the 2016 budgetary agreement between the Government and the Cooperation Parties, it was agreed to introduce 11 months of study support. This was a promise that the red-green government never made, and after three years of right-wing government, students can enjoy better economics. The government has strengthened support for the study beyond the growth of prices and wages every year. We have also made sure that the Student Cooperation Act has been amended, so that the students were again given full participation in the management of student relations, a right they were actually deprived under the red-green government. This means that with the right in government, the students have regained the trust they had from 1939 until 2013. Even though we would like to call this message the top of the crane sac, it does not in any way mark the end of the quality work. This will continue, and therefore we have systematically presented measures that we believe will contribute to better quality in higher education. The right went to the choice to strengthen higher education and research. We've delivered on that. No one wins choices on what you've done, but it actually builds trust, and we still have high ambitions on behalf of the knowledge nation. This means that we will continue to give priority to higher education and research, which can be trusted by the voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e749	Like the representative Vinje, I fully agree that there has been a lot of positive in this sector in the last four years. The UH sector has also been important for the Left. This has been a focus area in every budget debate we've been to, together with the Christian People's Party and the government. It's not without reason that we're now starting the payment of 11 months of study support. It is not without reason that we have a record large construction of student housing. We've increased the number of places to study. We're betting on scholarships. We have achieved a structural change in the sector, which has occurred internally in the sector – if not by itself, it has not been forced, at least not by the Storting. There's a lot of good going on in this sector. At the same time — perhaps more in this field than in any other field — it has to be a recognition that one does not get into goals, because one can never get into goals within academia. The whole point is that you always have to go further, because we can always get better, and so can we here. That is why the Left believes that we need to build even more student homes. We should have 3,000 a year. That's why the Left believes that when we're done phased into 11 months of study support, we have to raise it and attach it to the basic amount of population anxiety. That is why the Left has fought for 250 new ICT places in the negotiations on the revised national budget. That's why we always have to go even further, because we can always get better. One of the things I spent time on in my main post, and which I also asked the Council of State, was this with mentoring. That's one of the things that I think we have to introduce, precisely because we have to extend further, we can always get better. This is one of the points on which students give feedback that the institutions are not good enough. They do not get enough professional feedback, good enough professional follow-up, they do not get the professional strength and support they need through the study. That is why we want a mentor. Therefore, SV and Left have promoted a proposal that I had hoped we could have a majority. We're not saying anything in that proposal about how it's going to be designed, you're still free to look at how it's going to be done, but the point is that you should have a person who can support you professionally from a start at the study until you're done. We believe that's the step we're going to go to get further, to get better. When we do not get a majority in favour, we will also vote in favour of proposal No. 2, from the Labour Party, not because we think it's the best proposal, but simply because at least it's a little bit longer. It's not where we should have been, and it's not where we're going, but it's at least a little step on the way in the right direction. When you don't get what you want, you get a sheep. The left will vote in favour of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e760	Of course, the representative Nybø is right that positive things have happened. It was only to be lacking when oil money was doubled in four years, that nothing should also be dripping in the university and higher education sectors. It would have been a totally disastrous crisis if it hadn't happened. The Left and Christian People's Party will also be praised for having contributed e.g. additional study places in the comparisons. If you keep doing it now, you do it again and you keep doing it for a few years, you might get the 400 ICT places you promised. So it contributes. But it describes how little has happened, when the representation of the board in student relations here is raised as one of the great things that have happened over the four years. It shows how small one thinks in a technological and educationally revolutionary time — which profoundly changes the whole of society. Then we have to ask ourselves, have we increased the rankings in these years while the Right has been sitting? Has the flow of studies been increased while the sector has been controlled by the Right? Have you had more full - time students? Has it become easier to get homes for students? Has there been an increase in places of study? It does not even correspond to increased study propensity, and then we have a record high unemployment rate and a great need for more educated people. I remember the criticism we had of the number of engineers -- remember it, from the previous period -- when the Right had as his shine number that this was so disastrous. Lifelong learning, a place of study adapted to people who want to take part in continuing education – has anything happened here? With regard to ICT, the Committee was in Boston and saw how MIT and Harvard invest million in this. Is this what the Council of State is taking the initiative to do in the sector? Not at all! Stop, stop, stop, stop. Drip, drip, drip, drip. And to take what the Right said was the most important, the most important job, the teacher: what about the status of, the recruitment of, and the flow of teacher training? So we have – here I really want to use the word ‘crisis’ – hundreds of places that are available, heavy falls in the search for teacher training for 1–7. steps. Some colleges tell you about classes where there's only girls left, there's almost no boys in the studio. That's 50 pst. throughput after five years in GLU 1-7, and one of three — reported from the sector — newly educated teachers end in a short time. Thus, in the main project of the Right, there has been a total failure to increase the status of the teacher, the attractiveness of the teaching profession, the recruitment of teacher training and the flow. And what's the answer? Well, it's expanding by one year, adding 10 days of extra practice, and reducing the pedagogical profession by pressing in KRLE. This is quite the opposite of where one should go, because one should raise the professional status of the teachers, give greater confidence, make sure that the profession is attractive, increase recruitment and ensure that the most important job in the school is well cared for in the future. Again: four lost years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e775	The representative Audun Lysbakken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e781	I drew myself to help the representative Kristin Vinje complete the jewelry list, because there were a few things she left out. One was that it was the red-green government that proposed 11 months of study support, which was removed in its first budget. It's not so much to celebrate that it's going to be four years late. Secondly, when you talk about rest cutting, I think you're quite brave. For it is this government that has implemented so-called efficiency cuts year after year. You give to the sector with one hand, take with the other and say it has to be more efficient. But in reality, of course, it's quite real budget cuts, such as. The research association says that research and quality are affected. I think it also belongs to the list of inheritances after this government, and that makes the list considerably less impressive. The government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, among others. the last budget of the institution, by taking significant sums from the university and higher education sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e790	Anyone who has joined the debate and read the comments will see that there is some sort of ideological distinction here in the Chamber, which is usually not so clear in this area. But there is a difference, and the Council of State has also said that he refuses to go in and rule. He won't decide that, for example. shall be a student representative available to all Norwegian students. It's all the way up to the institutions. That's a fair point of view to have. The right prefers to steer through are signals. That is why we in the opposition have pointed out which signals are sent when the long-term plan has one and a half pages of higher education when it comes to both research and higher education. What signals does it send to the sector when simultaneously talking about ‘world-leading’ on the in and out rest? That was at least what happened the first half of the year, the first whole year and the first two years. It's gotten smaller because you've realized that it's also about other things, even though it's important to be world leaders in research. I have talked to many researchers who have taken the signals in such a way that there is research that is most important. But what's important today is that we signal that education is equally important. The two missions go hand in hand because it makes both research and education better that they go hand in hand, and not least because we are now in a situation where what's going on at our universities and colleges is going to be more important than ever. The rate of change that's around us is almost impossible to grasp. You can't always take it all the way in, but the technological change is going so fast that it's demanding to jump on the train. And which train should you jump on? There are many trains to jump on in terms of technological development. That's not a good enough shot. We don't have enough education. We don't have enough candidates. Then it becomes provocative that figures are rooted in the number of ICT sites created. It is provocative that in the opposition we are almost criticized because we stress that the government has come back in terms of quality of education and quality of education. That's the last chapter of their book. It's just like that. We are now in June 2017. This wasn't the first thing they did, and that wasn't the first thing they talked about. At the same time, this is incredibly important, both in terms of basic education, university and higher education, and not least in terms of continuing education and training. If we are to cope with the transition – transitions are about people who have to act differently – people need to be filled with education so that they can work in a labour market that changes continuously, all the time, and where the education they had ten years ago is not even valid anymore. There is a need to update here, and continuing training is hardly mentioned in a word in this big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e803	The representative Kristin Vinje has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e808	I think the signals we're giving today, the universities and colleges have come to a pretty good conclusion, because they're already doing a good job of improving the quality of their institutions. And as I have said before, the government has been working on quality in higher education throughout the period – through budgets, through other communications and through concrete additions. I also think it's a little special that Trond Giske minimizes the fact that we have given back participation to the students. It was quite special that they were deprived of the participation they had had for all of their years. That's why I don't think it's a trifle – it may well be the Workers' Party. I'm very happy that we're on the students' side and giving them participation over their own everyday lives. To answer a few more questions in the short term, it's actually easier for students to get housing with the Right Government, because we're building twice as many student homes as the average under the Red-Green Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e817	What made me take the floor was that there is at least a very large distance in the reality description of how the sector out there is experiencing the work of the government – obviously. When, for example, the representative Giske trying to draw their picture, the distance is really very large to how the principal of the University of Tromsø experiences his everyday life during this government. There is no doubt that the measures taken over the years by a civil majority in Stortinget have led both the university and research sectors to significantly improve the conditions for conducting excellent teaching, to carry out excellent research, and not least to facilitate students to have a good day of study, both economically and in-house and in other areas of quality of education. That is the quality we are discussing here today. I want to say that it is very happy to see how many people have given commendation and positive feedback on just this quality message, which is what we are going to discuss here today. Then I think the focus should be there. It's a problem to just 40 pst. of our students completing in normal time. Then we have to ask ourselves whether we in the university and higher education sectors are able to deliver the quality and the framework necessary for this country to better meet its challenges in the future. It is also a fact that through the structural reform, we have made some of our institutions better not only to deliver quality in Norway but to deliver quality in the world. The University of Tromsø – which I will again use as an example from my part of the country – now competes much better in the international arenas, especially in the EU system, in terms of research resources and excellent environments. It also makes my part of the country much better equipped to compete in international competition in the global world, which is getting smaller because both technology and communication make it get closer. Then we must not pretend that what has happened in recent years has not mattered. On the contrary, it has had an enormous impact on our ability as a nation to take advantage of the opportunities ahead of us. So I just want to say another thing, even if we were to focus on quality: it's also delivered significantly in terms of volume. I'm not just talking about dollars and cents, I'm talking about places of study. If we look at the places of study provided under this government and you accumulate them fully in phase, there are now 8 000 more places of study fully phased in. That's not a completely insignificant number of places to study, I have to say. In this way, I think most of the criticism that has come from the opposition here today is really quite meaningless.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e832	Political debate is rarely pointless, I completely disagree with the previous representative who stood on this platform. What made me take the floor – even though we are now extending this debate – was that again there was praise for things that are about research. This is an educational debate, it is quality in higher education we are talking about, and it is not competitive venues in the EU – not at all. That's exactly what's been a bit of the problem, and that's been the challenge in this period, that all the time it has to be up and down to winning the competitive venues for Norwegian research, getting better world-leading environments, excellence – that kind of thing. It's good, absolutely, it's great that we have environments that are world leaders, but we're talking about them, according to the representative Sivert Bjørnstad, well 280,000 students who go to their studies every day and who are going to get a good education where they are – all of them. And there's something else than that we have some or maybe quite a lot of good environments around Norwegian research institutions and universities and colleges. It is well and good, but the problem in this period is that the quality of higher education has become the stony child you haven't been so concerned about. I feel that the Right approach was basically that as long as the research is very good, it drips down on education, then it gets nice and good. But it's not that simple. There is a need to focus on direct action to improve education and training. Then it's with merit for career paths, merit in education, an instrument that I'm very happy that the government has put up with. Many people here have also said that we have praised this message – just to nuance this. This is a step in the right direction, but we still believe that more could be done, and you started this work too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e839	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e855	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e862	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. There was a bit of trouble in the setting when it was first prepared, but the staging secretariat has pushed around and corrected it. We now have a rich version of treatment today. In the government's proposal, there are several proposed amendments, and the Committee broadly endorses the proposals put forward there. It is proposed, inter alia: introducing a requirement for municipalities and county councils to treat health schools and public schools in a non-discriminatory manner in order to cover expenditure on special education. The Committee considers it important that students in need of special education have an equivalent right to training, irrespective of the type of school they attend. Furthermore, the Committee points out that it is an overall objective to contribute to the provision of a high-quality, pedagogical and specialised educational offer to children and young people in need of organised action and to experience increased inclusion in kindergarten and school, regardless of whether they attend a public school or a high school. In this context, the Committee has made proposals to explore the basis for the allocation of resources to in-service schools for special education and sharing of responsibilities between home municipalities and each free school in order to ensure equal treatment of pupils. The majority of the Committee also agree with the Ministry that the rules on unaccompanied pupils should be harmonised and therefore supports the Ministry in providing the basis for the Adult Education Act where regulations may limit admissions in schools of unaccompanied applicants in Norway. It is a majority in the Committee that is of the opinion. As I said, the Committee broadly endorses the proposals submitted in the case. There are several proposals, but I do not go into every proposal here. Once again, I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e875	First, thank you to the rapporteur who has done a good job with Prop. 78 L, which has now given a good account of the Committee's work, which has led to a broadly unanimous vote. However, I use this opportunity to highlight some points on behalf of the Workers' Party. For us, it is important that students who need special education should be entitled to equivalent training regardless of school type. It is important that children and young people in need of organised action receive high-quality educational and special educational services and that they experience inclusion regardless of whether they go to public school or to high school. We stress that there must be expert judgement before any decision is taken on special education. Although fresh schools have been delegated the power to take individual decisions on special education, schools are not free to decide what kind of education the student should have. For the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that there is a pedagogical-psychological service to investigate, provide expert judgement and address the needs of the student and that this is the basis for the decision. Let me link a few comments to what are called pupils without permanent membership in Norway, and the Christian People's Party's comments and suggestions on this. The Christian People's Party writes that some Bible schools are run by organizations that do international work, and for these, the admission of foreign students may be natural and necessary. That's to understand. That being said, it is a cross of thought that there are Bible schools that have a very high proportion of foreign students, among other things. Mountain Ton Bible School in Stavanger. This school has a share of 91,3 pst in the current school year. – or in other words, 21 out of 23 students. The year before, there wasn't a single Norwegian student among the 32 who went there. I can also mention Philadelphia Bible School in Oslo, which is the largest of all Bible Schools with its 155 students. 109 of those who have gone there in winter are not Norwegian. Now this is going to be the subject of a separate consultation in connection with the regulatory change, but it is time to ask the question whether the legislation we have today respects Storting's intention with the school team. Finally, it is important, once again, for the Workers' Party to stress that in the sense of not being able to operate in a commercial manner, in the sense that it is not permissible for owners to take open or hidden dividends arising from State grants or school fees. Unfortunately, we have seen examples of that in recent years. That is why it is good that the law now confirms that fresh schools should have statutes and that all government grants and school fees should benefit students.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e890	I don't intend to spend much time, but I want to mention it as the Christian People's Party also comments in the setting. We think it makes sense to harmonise the different laws in terms of restrictions on the number of students without permanent membership in Norway. Christian People's Party may also be involved in providing the government with a regulatory home that allows such restrictions to be imposed, including for schools approved under Chapter 4 of the Training Act. We agree that Bible schools that have more or less exclusively foreign students can be said to be difficult to operate in line with what is the intention of the law, and therefore I also see the need to have a limit. The Bible School that the representative Sønsterud mentioned, Fjelltun, has now been adopted — unfortunately. So I think it's important to take into account that there are significant differences in folk schools and Bible schools, and that there is also a great difference between Bible schools and Bible schools. It's not certain that a 10 pst. limit will be correct for all the Bible schools. As the representative Sønsterud read from the position and the comments of the Christian People's Party, it is quite right that some Bible schools are run by organizations that carry out extensive international work, and for these it may be both natural and necessary to have a share of foreign students who are higher than 10 pst. When it comes to higher education in general, we talk about the need for internationalisation. At the University of Oslo, I think they have about 15 p.m. foreign students, and then to set a fixed limit of 10 pst. for all Bible schools, regardless of the profile at school and the way they work, I don't think that's reasonable. That is why I think it is important that the legislation does not become too rigid, and I think it would make sense for the government to consider an overall ceiling for this sector, for example. 20 pst., and then with an opening for a slightly higher proportion of foreign students at the schools where appropriate. With this I will address the proposals that the Christian People's Party is behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e903	The representative Anders Tyvand has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e908	First of all, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough review of the matter. And as the representative, Mr Nybø, said, there is a great deal of consensus in the Committee on the proposals. It has also been at the hearing. In view of the fact that the Progress Party has received a good deal of news from various teams that financing of special education in fresh schools has at times been problematic, I need to comment on the amendments to the Law on Free Schools §3-6, which deals with the financing of special education in fresh schools. The feedback we get is that today's law of free school and regulations are unclear, and that this can in many cases result in health schools getting less money from the municipality or county in which the student is resident than they get in the public school. It is not difficult to agree that it seems unfair both to the students involved and to the schools. It also points out that the Ministry has been made aware of problems relating to the recovery of expenditure on special education through complaints, hearings and other information. This clearly demonstrates that there is a high time for a change to the existing legislation. We in the Progress Party are particularly pleased that the individual municipality and county council are now required to treat the health schools and public schools in the same way as the special education expenditure. For the Progress Party, it is important that students in need of special education have an equivalent right to training regardless of the type of school they attend. In the case of proposals for restrictions for pupils without permanent membership of Norway at Bible schools and other schools approved under Chapter 4 of the Adult Education Act, the Progress Party supports the government’s proposal. The reason for this is that some of the schools involved have a high proportion of students without permanent membership of Norway, and it has never been the intention that education should be taken mainly by foreign students. The party of progress will also stress that Bible schools are an important school type, and that we have recorded that when applying to set up schools, there is a requirement for evidence that society needs the education given. As far as I know, Bible schools are the only kind of school that actually has to prove that there are jobs on the market that are related to education. Feedback from applications shows that there is a great need for training. Both working life and organisations support the establishment of the school type and support the need for education. It is hoped that some Bible schools will be closed, but with the background of the successful schooling being given in connection with applications for new schools, I have faith that the school will continue to be a life - style, even though there will be intensification of demands for the number of foreign students at each school. The Progress Party believes that there is a need to harmonise the legislation in this area so that fresh schools, higher education institutions and Chapter 4 schools are assimilated. The Progress Party is confident that the government, in consultation on changes, will find a good solution, and therefore does not support the proposals of the Christian People's Party in the matter. We have full confidence that the government and the sector will come up with good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e927	The bill proposes several changes to the law on early school, adult education and the law on higher education, and there has been broad support for the proposals in the hearings. It seems to be also on the Storting, so it is not necessary to go through everyone in detail. I just want to mention a few elements. As regards the coverage of the expenditure on special education in fresh schools, the Government proposes to clarify the requirement for funding, while at the same time contributing to the non-discrimination of pupils in fresh schools and public schools, by imposing requirements on municipalities and county municipalities to treat health schools and public schools as regards the coverage of expenditure on special education. I have noted both the comments from the Committee and the request decision to investigate, among others. the division of responsibilities between the municipality of residence and each school, and of course I will follow it up. With regard to the supervision of the duties of municipalities and county councils under the Law on Secondary Education, we propose to clarify the Law on Secondary Education and to state that the County Council has the power to supervise the municipal duties of pupils in schools. The legislative requirement for fresh schools to have articles of association which indicate that all government grants and school fees will benefit students is a requirement to legislate what is in place today. But the Storting asked us to determine just such a requirement, and that will make it even clearer – if possible. Similarly, it is proposed to impose a duty to notify the schools of sale, merger, fission and closure, precisely in order to ensure good control. When it comes to limiting the proportion of non-permanent students in Norway at school approved under the Adult Education Act Chapter 4, I believe – in line with what we have proposed – that this quota rule makes sense. I think it'll be completely possible to practice in a good way. The latest changes are about the adult education law and provision in the Swedish Law of Higher Education, where we use the same practice as today, namely that we also have to provide grants and student payments to benefit students there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e944	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e960	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e969	Thank you to the Left, who is promoting these important proposals, and thank you to the Committee for constructive work on this matter. What was school without teachers? A school without teachers is no school. The teachers are the adults to be present, support, challenge, guide, advise and disseminate knowledge. The teacher is the most important factor in the learning of the students. The teacher is the school's most important resource to facilitate both a good learning environment and an environment where all students can thrive and learn. It is therefore important that we have teachers in classrooms, in the hall and in the schoolyard with a high level of professional, social and pedagogical competence, so that we can succeed in creating an inclusive Community school for all. Teachers must have good professional knowledge, understand the students' way of learning, be good at feedback, be good at running good class management, have good relative skills and be able to identify the learning needs of the different students. Since 2012, there has been a long-term commitment to the competence of teachers with the Quality Competence strategy. There is a broad political consensus on investing in the competence of teachers and providing good opportunities for continuing training. These are bets that the whole Storting is gathered about. Of course, we have to have competent teachers in the classroom, but it doesn't last alone. We must have several competent teachers – many more competent teachers. According to the forecasts of the Central Statistical Office, we in Norway may lack several thousand teachers in the next decades. This is also underlined by the Ministry of Knowledge, which highlighted in a press release in March that Norway needs more than 35,000 new teachers over the next 10 years. In other words, it needs a strong commitment to ensure the future's teaching skills. The search for the teacher's studies has to go up, and we have to make sure that the teacher's job becomes more attractive so that the teachers stay in school. In 2014 the government launched the Teacher Lift. I'm not sure if the teachers feel especially uplifted. A total increase has been ringing about the investment in continuing education, but something more is needed. The search for teacher training is poor. In North Norway, the total was 70 pst. of the places of study of teacher training not completed after admission in 2016. 600 teaching positions in high school are cut. The share of pedagogy in new teacher training is reduced. The government boasts of more teachers, but the reality, when you correct for students, is that there won't be much to boast about. Teachers repeatedly experience that it is cut in the budgets of their school. In the draft programme of the Right, no more teachers were mentioned in a single word. When the alleged teacher’s vow was launched in 2014, the professional teacher was barely mentioned. This does not make teaching more attractive, nor does it help more people to become teachers, nor does it help more teachers to remain teachers. There is a need for a strong commitment to recruiting more people to start teacher training and for much more action at national level in order to maintain more teachers in school. More trust and time must be given to core school tasks. Unnecessary bureaucracy needs to be cut, and far more teachers need to be employed, teacher density needs to be increased. The new master’s training for teachers needs to be improved with more pedagogy and more practice. It is these things that a new teaching promise should be about. It is therefore disappointing that the government parties repeatedly vote against proposals promoted in the Storting on these issues. We are in agreement with the Left on several of the proposals presented in the document. This is what the setting will tell you. The Labour Party will also support proposal No. 6, on university schools. Finally, I refer to the proposals that the Workers' Party is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e988	Then the representative Christian Thinning Bjørnø addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e993	Like the previous speaker, I would like to start by thanking the proposers and the Left for a good Document 8 proposal and helping to continue to raise the debate about the teacher role – what we should expect from them and give them. They are among the most important professional groups we have in this country, precisely because the teacher in the classroom is the first line in the knowledge society: those who are going to raise all the children, those who are going to see them, teach them the subjects they should be able to, and make sure that they become whole people who thrive and are safe at school. This is a continuous debate. I think and hope we in Norwegian society will never finish discussing the teacher's role, because it's so important to raise the weakest in particular. In the 2013 election campaign, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left together went to the elections on a change of pace for the teachers – to ensure that we get the level of competence that had been promised for many years, but not implemented. In the course of these four years, the four cooperation parties have ensured that the number of teachers receiving continuing training is tripled. Sometimes it sounds like it's just something the politicians have decided, but the teachers haven't necessarily asked for it. It is worth remembering that it was the most important requirement of the Education Association in the 2013 election campaign. The number of applicants for continuing education is more than 10,000 teachers, who each year ask for the professional supplement they wanted for many years – and who now finally get it. We have introduced skills requirements at school to allow all teachers to be immersed in the common subjects in which they teach – precisely because we believe that education works, and that it has something to say about the professional skills they have to be able to teach in different disciplines. We have increased the recording requirements for teacher training in common, and we say that in the next period we want to also increase the recording requirement in English and Norwegian, as we have done in mathematics. From the autumn of 2017, teacher training is no longer a four-year education, but a five-year practical master training. All of this, of course, is a very important piece of work that has provided teachers with a significant level of status. In addition, we need to think ahead and make sure that good teachers in the classroom can make their careers, without having to leave the classroom. So that's how we're going to have to do it. introduce specialist teachers who may receive extra pay and additional responsibility for the development of pedagogy at their school. The representative Thinning Bear used a lot of his post to criticise the things we've done in government. What we've become quite used to when it comes to the education sector, and in particular the teacher's vow, is that we come up with almost everything we propose. There's a lot of criticism, but very little alternative policy. So while some of the parties, including the Workers' Party, are proposing to introduce some kind of teacher's density standard – it's very unclear what it means – we say that our most important promise both during this period and next will be to make sure that all parents and all students who start school should know that they are meeting a professionally up-to-date, motivated and committed teacher behind the catheter. That's why we raise our skills as much as we do. In addition, the four cooperation parties have taken action to increase recruitment. In fact, you can now clear up to NOK 160,000 of the student loan if you train for primary school and work in Finnmark or in parts of Nord-Troms, precisely because we see that we have to make sure that more people apply for, train and work in these municipalities. There is much we have done, and much we can do, but the most important thing to increase recruitment and ensure that more people want to apply for teacher training is to raise the status of the teaching profession. Perhaps the most important thing that's going to be left after these four years, and the most important thing we're going to do in the next, is to make sure that the status and view of the teacher role in our society is getting better and better. That's why it's also the case, when you talk about non-qualified at school, that all of these grips are about making sure that those who work at school are qualified. It is worth remembering that once you have organized the school with local school owners, it is a responsibility for the municipality and for the school leaders to make sure that students as far as possible meet qualified teachers even in the event of illness or when no one can go to work that day. Finally, I would like to give an explanation of vote on behalf of the Right. The right-hand side is going to vote for III, which is: ‘The government is asked if there is a need to protect the teacher’s title.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1021	Thank you to the rapporteur for good cooperation, and thank you to the Left, who has made a proposal which has many good proposals in itself and which the Progress Party could support. I come back to why we do not support the proposals today. That being said, the cooperation parties and the government parties have followed up their cooperation agreement on the issue of teacher-leaving in school and have agreed on a number of actions during the period. There's a lot that's recognizable here. Many of the points look like they're taken straight from the Progress Party program, and of course we're satisfied with that. Here I want, among other things. present the proposal to assess alternative models of the right and obligation of continuing training for teachers. Here, there is a guaranteed room for innovation, the Progress Party believes, and as an alternative, the Progress Party writes this in the party programme: ‘The party will continue to invest in increased competence and would like to introduce a volunteer-based semester of competence every seven years, in which employees are given the opportunity to undertake continuing training, to research in their field of competence, to host businesses or to have other arrangements for developing their skills.’ It is positive that there is a broad consensus that the teacher is the most important factor for students' learning. Teachers with a high level of professional, social and pedagogical competence are essential for a good school. We are therefore pleased with the results of the historical effort on the Teacher Lift, which has trained thousands of teachers, and are pleased to see the introduction of more skills requirements and more stringent entry requirements for teacher training. These are actions that help committed teachers to be updated in the field and even more competent in their daily activities. The Progress Party agrees with the Left that it is important to remove unnecessary bureaucracy and time thieves in school. A good deal has been done here, among others. the reporting to GSI, the primary information system, simplified, reduced number of written en-route assessments, mandatory Vg1 screening tests have been converted into voluntary learning support tests and written documentation requirements have been simplified. The programme of the Progress Party is clear that the teacher’s main task is to plan and implement the teaching, evaluation and feedback of student work. We want more professions into school, so the teacher gets to be a teacher, not a bureaucrat. In the case of unnecessary time use in school, note what the government-appointed expert group’s report on the teacher’s role revealed: ‘Based on both TALIS data and own studies, the SØF documented and SINTEF at the same time that there was a widespread dissatisfaction among teachers with the use of common time. Where this time was used for meetings and planning for the school as on the whole, the teachers wanted more time to be spent planning for: education. This is consistent with a 2009 FAFO study. There almost half of the teachers said they spent too much time at meetings there. information was only provided.’ This shows that the way in which each school organises the common time of its teachers is of great importance for teachers to benefit from the time spent on this. It is the school leaders and the school owners who run the school in common, but we in the Stortinget can draw the attention of school leaders and school owners to the problem and are allowed to expect them to find good local solutions, so that teachers feel that they get the best possible use of time. We in the Progress Party, like the Left, believe that there is a need to protect the teacher's title. Although we do not fully support the Left’s proposal to introduce a certification scheme in order to hold the title, the Progress Party considers that the professional title ‘teacher’ should be protected for those teachers who have approved professional and pedagogical training and supports the majority proposal to assess the need to protect the teacher’s title. This is something we look forward to cooperating on to get to. As I said at the outset, the Progress Party agrees with a good part of the proposals. The reason why we do not support them today is that some of the proposals have significant budgetary implications that will give strong leadership to future budgets, and such major and important decisions are not appropriate in connection with a Document 8. We are waiting to support and promote proposals that have budgetary implications, to the next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1061	We've discussed the teacher's role – the importance of the teacher, how we should facilitate the success of teachers, how to recruit more teachers – many times during this great age. The proposals from the Left have now given us the opportunity to do so again. Teachers are the school's most important resource. We need teachers who are professionally skilled, teachers who are good mediators, and who are good at getting in touch with children and young people. And we need enough teachers, so that the teachers get enough time to follow up on each individual student. We know that one of the biggest challenges in school today is that teachers don't have enough time for every child, and we have to do something about that. That's why I'm glad the Christian People's Party has had an important impact on more teachers for the youngest students. At the lowest class stages, increasing teacher density is of utmost importance. But we believe that we need a national standard of teacher's density for the entire primary school. Unlike the Workers' Party, which has not been able to agree with itself whether they will have a standard at school or at municipal level, or what the norm is, the Christian People's Party has previously proposed a model of teacher density at school that will ensure that all children will have enough time with their teacher. Another major challenge is to recruit enough students for future teacher training. Never before have so many children in Norwegian school been taught by unskilled people, but with government policy it can be good for new gloomy records in the years to come. The government has introduced a requirement for grade 4 or better in high school math to enter the teacher’s study. This has led to hundreds of students wishing to become teachers not coming in, while hundreds of teacher training places are empty. It's not certain that everyone who doesn't come in now had a plan to become a math teacher, they might have a dream of becoming a Norwegian teacher or a history teacher. They might have had some good testimonies and very good facts in both Norwegian and history, but the government says no to them because they're not good enough in algebra or good enough to solve equations with more unknowns. We need thousands of new teachers in the future. The government is leading a policy that leads to fewer of us. It's not going up, it's not going to go up, it's not going to go down to grade 4. While we are now struggling to recruit enough teachers, we are at risk of losing experienced teachers because the government has strengthened the skills requirements also for teachers who had completed their education and had an approved education before 2014. Those who are not interested in going back to school or who have not received an offer of necessary further education must find something else to do. The Christian People's Party is a supporter of both continuing and enhanced skills requirements, but we believe it is unwise in practice to separate teachers with long experience from the profession. We know that we have about 40,000 trained teachers who have left the teaching profession. Many of these have left the job after quite a short time. It's a problem. In the «Reserve Force» report of teachers, published by the Ministry of Knowledge in 2012, we can read that too much stress in the profession and too little time for each student are among the most important reasons why many teachers choose to leave the job. I believe a national guidance system for all newly educated teachers would help more people to enjoy and experience their success in the job, and I am convinced that a commitment to increased teacher density would help prevent the leakage and also perhaps be able to get some of the teachers who have left school back. I hope that more than Christian People's Party and the Red-Green parties will support what is now proposed as a decision-making option, to launch a national recruitment campaign to recruit the right candidates for the teaching profession, and the proposal that the government should put forward measures to strengthen recruitment to keep more teachers in school and to recruit teachers in other professions back to work at school. That's what's needed, and I've now given some idea of what's going on. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal to determine whether there is a need to protect the teacher's title. It's great that the Right will now also vote for it. I believe this is a good and sensible proposal for a decision, and I think it is fully possible to do so without introducing a new certification scheme. Competence requirements and training must underpin such protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1080	Is Mr Tyvand's representative going to come up with a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1085	Yes, I'm addressing the proposal Christian People's Party is behind with the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1090	Then the representative Anders Tyvand mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1095	The most important teaching promise we can give the teachers is confirmation that they are capable, and that we have faith that they are exercising their profession as professionals for the benefit of the students. Over this four-year period, the government, with good help from the proposers, has repeatedly, in effect, told the teachers that they are not good enough. It is a pity that all the good teachers in this country should feel that the job they do is not considered satisfactory. In the debate on the throne in the autumn, I therefore talked about trust – trust in the Norwegian school and the teachers who work there. It is a paradox that the basis for the mistrust partly stems from a reform designed to strengthen the influence of each school and individual teacher on education and school management. The promise of knowledge should increase local freedom of action and the professional judgement of teachers. But the back of that medal is that with freedom came control and testing. Accountability became the new mantra, where the school and the teacher are held responsible for achieving the agreed objectives. The result has been a comprehensive — and sometimes contradictory — set of control mechanisms that, in total, do not build trust but, on the contrary, show distrust, distrust of the professional teacher. The Centre agrees that the Teacher Lift itself contains few concrete recruitment measures in addition to expectations of higher status, less non-response and better flow as a consequence of other measures in the bet. For this reason, there is a need for more measures for increased recruitment to the teaching profession. The Central Party therefore agrees with the intention and also with many of the proposals contained in the proposal from the Left. But just as the follow-up to the Knowledge Lift has an inherent double communication, the Center Party believes that the Left also engages in double communication with the teachers. It does not help with individual measures in a so-called Teacher Lift 2.0 when the batch simultaneously applauds the system that is the problem itself and the cause of what the teachers experience as challenging and as distrust. The centre party has tried to be a voice for what an overwhelming majority of teachers tell us through both representational proposals and in the processing of messages and propositions throughout this period. Unfortunately, there has been little support from the Left, which instead protects the government's policy. Then there is a bit of a cover over the Left's proposal. The OECD told us through the PISA results at the beginning of the 2000s that Norwegian school was not as good, i.e. not achieved as good reading, math and science as the ‘best’ countries. The OECD, which is to promote economic growth, then offers us solutions – and thus more testing. Despite all the resources used to prepare samples, turn them into Norwegian, evaluate and write reports, no one comments that we read is where we were when we started. That we're doing so far over an average in mathematics, is the stupid use of numbers, all the time there are now several countries in the tests. It is the PISA hysteria that helps Norwegian teachers not have the trust of government and left. Lack of trust is also experienced by the fact that the basic education of the teachers is poor even though they have worked for many years in school. The Party agrees with the Left that it is necessary to provide teachers with an opportunity to update continuously and that a right and obligation to continue training must be agreed with the organisations. It is important that newly-trained teachers also take part in this further training offer. Finally, the center party was opposed to the character requirement being set up from 3 to 4 in mathematics to enter the teacher's school. I guess I'm not the only one who has spoken to Professor Jordell at the Institute of Pedagogy at the UiO, or read his criticism of this measure – now at the latest in the Evening Post in Pentecost under the title: «Heavy tongue and the fourth requirement, a Pentecostal summary». There he goes carefully into the problem, and if you haven't read it, I recommend you do it. It's a mystery to me that there are no more people who see the logic that this requirement will lead to fewer teachers. Not least, this is very serious for the northernmost parts of the country. In the ultimate sense, this will have a major impact on school structure, as access to recognised teachers will become less difficult. It can't be anything to be proud of that the government of Solberg with supporting parties has made sure that there are more non-qualified people working in the school now than it was when the government took over. So even if the government wants to, there won't be enough students from high school with the grade 4 applying for the teaching profession. It is time, as Earthell writes, to stop ‘doing more tongues, hesitation and fiction’.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1117	In the left we say that everything starts in school, or that whatever the question is, the answer is knowledge. We know that it is the teacher who has the greatest importance for students' learning. Teachers with a high level of professional, social and pedagogical competence are essential and important for a good school. They are also key to the success of early efforts in the fight against bullying and work for good learning environments and the good use of digital aids, and other important school interventions. Norway needs over 35,000 new teachers over the next 10 years to replace the non-qualified and retired teachers. During this ageing period, there has been a historical commitment to the further training of teachers. We've been doing teacher training for five years, and we're going to give qualification scholarships to those who choose to train and work as teachers. In other words, there's a lot of work done in this magnification period, but we have to go on. We can always get better. And it's rare it fits as well to say it as when we discuss education policy, because it's the key itself, also in school policy. We always have to move forward and strive for what's better. That is also why the Left has proposed the Teacher Lift 2.0. Now, when we're going to raise our ambitions and look ahead, we in the Left believe that the Teacher Lift 2.0 should contain several different elements. First of all, we need to increase the recruitment rate for the teaching profession. We're going through the new qualification school, but this also has to be about recruiting teachers from other professions, keeping teachers who are in school today, and making sure that those who are trained as teachers choose to work at school. I am pleased that we have got together with the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party on a proposal for action for increased recruitment to the teaching profession. Furthermore, in the Left we believe that education should pay off, including for teachers. We now make higher and higher demands, and it also has to be reflected in wages. For example, we have extended teacher training to a five-year education, and we are demanding credits to teach in subjects such as Norwegian, English and math. The question of pay is a question that needs to be resolved by the parties, but all experience suggests that if it is will, it is the way, and we want to at least say that this is a group that we must also pay for the increased skill requirements that we are now making. Continuing and continuing training programmes have become popular, and it turns out that this is something for which teachers themselves have a strong desire. Those who participate also tell us that they have a lot of benefits. In the left, we are concerned that further education and training must not only be done in basic subjects, it must be done in all disciplines, because we must train whole people, and we are convinced that teachers in particular. social sciences and KRLE will also enjoy and benefit from such an offer. One of the things about which there is a cross-political consensus, but with which we are by no means yet in the goal, is a reduction in bureaucracy. There's a lot that steals a teacher's time, and it's important that we keep the bureaucracy to a minimum. Teachers shall spend as much time as possible on students and provide them with education, follow-up and guidance. That's why the Left believes that we have to attach this to a reduction of 25 pst. We have to set high targets, and we have to start fulfilling this point. Finally, I would like to talk a little bit about our proposal to protect the teacher's title. Being a teacher is one of the most important professions we have. Nevertheless, anyone can work as a teacher and thus also call himself a teacher – whether he or she has taken a teacher’s education, has a completely different education, but works in school, or simply has no higher education at all. If you work as a teacher, you can call yourself a teacher. And we know that there are a lot of so-called non-qualified teachers working at school today. If we compare with other important professions in our society, such as: doctor or civil engineer, it's not like that. You can't call yourself a doctor or work as a doctor if you're not a trained doctor. And well that's because we want to know very much that the person we have in front of us, either in medical offices or in the hospital, has something to do with what he's doing. The same applies to civil engineers. I think it's best that we don't leave complicated and significant structures in the oil industry or in the transport sector to anyone. We haven't concluded what we mean to get the title learner, but we believe that the teacher's title should be protected. Although we do not get a majority in favour of our proposal today, I am pleased that several parties are on the verge. We are therefore going to vote subsidiaryly for III, where the Stortinget asks the government to determine whether there is a need to protect the teacher's title. Finally, I would like to address the proposals which the Left is behind, and which have not yet been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1142	The representative Iselin Nybø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1147	It is good that there is a broad consensus that it is the teacher that is the most important factor for students' learning. It also has broad support in school research, but listening to the teachers doesn't always seem to be equally important for the majority here on the Storting. For the government it doesn't seem to be so careful if there are enough teachers, only those who get through the education, have had 4 in math in high school. We are today in a situation where Norwegian school is flooded by hours of unskilled teachers who are set to teach our children and young people without being qualified for it. We even have a good deal of examples that many of these even come straight from high school. What does the government do in this situation? Well, they separate thousands of teachers who have decades of experience in the teaching profession by providing the skills requirements retrospectively. They introduce requirements for the minimum character 4 from high school mats to enter teacher training, resulting in empty places of study. They reduce teacher density and increase red tape through old-fashioned target management. All of this is strongly contrary to what the teachers themselves say is most important to recruit and keep teachers in school. In a report called the ‘Reserve Force’ of Teachers’, published by the Ministry of Knowledge in 2012, researchers have considered the reason why many teachers have chosen to leave the teaching profession, and not least what is needed to get them back to school. What is highlighted as the most central response to the withdrawal of teachers who have left school is that the total burden on the profession needs to be reduced, that groups need to be reduced and that teachers need to have more time for each individual student. It must be made attractive to work. Schools must be provided with framework conditions so that teachers have time to look and follow up on each individual child. Studies carried out, both among teachers who have left school and among teachers who work at school, show that one of the key prerequisites for success and stay in the job is that they are not responsible for more students than they feel they have the opportunity to do a good and professional job. This is why teachers are most important in creating the school of the future, and therefore the number of teachers is crucial to the quality of Norwegian school. We have to listen to what the teachers say is most important. Therefore, SV will introduce a national rule to increase teacher density. We have to put an end to overcrowded classrooms, and the teachers will have time to follow up each and every child on the child's own premises. It is only a national rule that regulates the number of pupils per teacher at each school — i.e. at school level — and a rule that applies to the entire primary school, which can ensure that the money the Stortinget grants comes right up to the individual classroom, and that crowded classrooms become history in Norwegian school. The government has granted 1.3 billion. to increase the teacher's density for the youngest students. So far, we see that there's been a small difference in terms of multiple teachers for 1 to 4. Steps, while at the same time getting lower teacher's density for 5-10. in fact, so much lower that the total teacher density in primary school has fallen. The fact is that the proportion of unskilled students who teach in Norwegian schools is rising, teacher density is falling, and very many teacher training places are empty. These are not good results. SV has also listened to the teachers when we propose to introduce a trust reform in school. We need a general settlement with the test and test hysteria in our school. Teachers need to have more professional space for action, and we need target management based on excessive control, ranking and competition. We think it makes sense to look at opportunities to protect the teacher's title. That is why we are promoting proposals together with the majority of the committee on this. While we are waiting for this investigation, there are many measures that can be implemented that can give a boost to Norwegian students and teachers, and we would have come further if not the Left, who has submitted this proposal, had repeatedly secured the majority together with the government parties for a policy that goes contrary to what teachers say they want. For example, the 4th requirement for admission to the teaching profession, as regards the separation of teachers, concerns the resistance to a national rule for increasing teacher density, and the lack of initiative for school trust reform. So I just want to make it clear that SV will vote in favour of II to secure a majority in favour of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1168	The most important job for the school is to give all the students the knowledge they need to be able to survive the rest of their lives. The most important job of a teacher is to make sure that students learn what to do while being safe. Being a teacher is a demanding job, it's a challenging job, it's a job that simply requires a lot of you, at the same time it's rewarding and exciting, every day is varied. It requires both self-employment and leadership. The whole point of the government's teacher's vow, accomplished with the good help of the Christian People's Party and the Left, is just to equip the knowledge school by investing in highly motivated, well-qualified teachers. I will not go through everything that has been done in this period – from master's education to triple further education – but rather say a little about what is being worked on right now. We are now working with the parties to develop a new national framework for a guidance system for teachers. As I mentioned earlier, the department is also working with new figures that indicate that the drop-out from the teaching profession may not be as high as the report of the KS. But it has to take some quality rounds on those numbers before we can verify it. In any case, there is no argument for not having a better guidance system than today. Information campaigns and information work are very good, but they must be as targeted as possible, and they must be based on local challenges and conditions. When, for example, have looked at the situation of teacher recruitment, we have been particularly concerned with the north. So the counties and municipalities have been involved and taken responsibility; the universities have been involved and taken responsibility. In addition, they have received an additional carrot from the majority parties in Stortinget by saying that you can now actually write off a little more than NOK 160 000 if you both complete a master's degree, take a course for 1–7. steps and chooses to work in one of the three northernmost counties. At the same time, I'm not in favour of trying to recruit future teachers by lowering the requirements to get in. I don't think that's a good signal in the long run either. I agree with the majority of the Committee and the rapporteurs, Nybø, Skei Grande and Rotevatn, that there is a need for continued strong commitment to continuing education at school. This is why the government is already planning to continue the great effort we have – to invest in school skills development also through a new model, which will give municipalities more room for action to take action to address local needs. In the 2017/2018 academic year it is also within the competence and quality set of 30 million. for further training in practical-esthetic subjects, and for the first time also the provision of continuing education in social sciences, KRLE and foreign languages has been established. Provision of continuing training in professional digital competence — including for teachers’ specialists — shall be developed starting from the autumn of 2018. In addition, there is room for applying for all regular offers at universities and colleges, which also helps to ensure the breadth of the continuing education strategy. With regard to the proportion of state funding for continuing education, my position is that this simply needs to be assessed against the money we have available, taking into account that as many teachers as possible will be offered. I am going to continue working on the issue of the right and obligation to continue training, but it is also a complicated matter that will not be clarified before the 2018 budget, simply because we want it to be reduced in law, it will also have an effect. It is quite right, as many have pointed out, that the requirements for admission to teacher education and school education are strengthened. Of course, you can consider whether more is needed to give the teaching profession weight and status. I'm probably as skeptical, as many people here have expressed, of such a certification scheme. This is because teacher training today is a certification scheme. You can't get permanent employment in school without being a teacher. At the same time, I think it might be interesting to see if you can create a kind of protection for your teacher's title. It is also worth mentioning that yesterday I presented a national strategy for quality and cooperation in teacher training, where one of the measures is that we should strengthen cooperation between universities and colleges and what we have called teacher training schools and teacher education centres. Nor do I ignore the fact that in the longer term there may be a category of positions in school and a title at an even higher level than what we have today called teacher specialists, for example. Ph.D. teacher. I think it is an important and exciting proposal. Svein Roald Hansen had taken over the president's office here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1193	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1198	We'll lack almost 40,000 teachers in the next few years, and as many have chosen the school as the workplace, among other things. because the burden in the profession is too heavy. The latest figures show a record low search for primary school teachers. Time and again, including today, the government parties are voting against several proposals aimed at increasing recruitment and ensuring that more people remain in the teaching profession. It's pretty incomprehensible, considering the serious situation we're in now. Does this mean that the Council of State considers that the measures it has proposed to be sufficient and that it is satisfied with the situation at the brink of its period of government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1205	I'm not satisfied, but it's not whether problems or challenges arise, it's measured in government. That's how to deal with the challenges that arise. Let me give you an example: in the north we've had a problem recruiting teachers over several years, especially for the youngest steps. We have visited there, we have offered help and support to municipalities, counties and universities, who also realize that this is absolutely crucial. When the candidate numbers for the north existed on 20 April, there was an increase of 45 pst. to teacher training in North Norway. That's one example of how it works. We have launched perhaps the most powerful tool that can be expected, namely that you can cancel up to NOK 160 000 of the study loan. It's a very clear and economical incentive and an encouragement to learn. In addition to the introduction of five-year master's education, I believe that there is reason to believe that we will be able to achieve our objectives in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1212	Governments are not satisfied, but have few new measures on the block. The situation is that we need 40,000 teachers. Too few applicants, too many quits, but there are no new measures, except grant schemes, that came legally late. Does the Council of State call this a good deal of handling, and does it show the power of action in such a serious situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1219	Yes, it does, because the most powerful tool we can use is just a recruiting scholarship, but also that we work with municipalities, counties and universities to get teacher training up. In the north, in particular, there have been extra challenges, and there appears to be results. But I'm not satisfied with that, and that's why I want this government to continue for another four years. But we also have to allow ourselves to take a little look at the option: the Labour Party is for the 4th requirement of teacher training, so that can't be the starting point for the Workers' Party's criticism, although they might be going into government with two opposing parties. In the case of one of the main steps, namely master training, the party has had four or five different positions during the period. They still can't answer clearly if all the teachers are going to have a master's degree. In the case of recruitment grants, the Workers' Party had in its alternative budget a few million to a pilot scheme. It's not particularly actionable. What is actionable is doing it and implementing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1228	When Trine Skei Grande asked the Prime Minister in a question hour earlier in ours about what she thought about protecting the teacher's title, the Prime Minister said as it were, that she had no idea. This way, we might not expect to get an answer right over the table. The right has today announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal to determine whether there is a need to protect the teacher's title, and I am very pleased about that. The council also mentions it itself in its articles. I want to challenge the Council of State whether he could say anything about how he thinks we could do it. What does it take to be able to call yourself a teacher? Does he see that it can be an advantage that not everyone can just take a job and call themselves a teacher, can help raise the status of the teaching profession?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1235	It is quite impressive that the representative Skei Grande is able to get the Prime Minister to admit that she has not thought of anything. It doesn't happen often, I can promise. As I said, in a way, we already have a protected title. The title is not protected, but getting a regular job in school presupposes having a teacher's education. I think it's very important to hold on to that. That's why we can talk about a teacher's profession. I believe that it is a good idea to consider how to legally protect the teacher's title. Of course, what is the practical problems with it is related to the consideration of other areas of society, which are not related to the school, where you call yourself a teacher. Is that supposed to be banned? What about a music teacher in a music school or a private music teacher, who may not have formal education in music, but who gives piano lessons? Should it be forbidden to call yourself a teacher? There are some of these issues. But the core of what the representative Nybø addresses is: Should we ensure that qualified teachers with teacher training are in school? The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1245	One of the things about which there is a cross-political consensus, and which I know the Council of State also agrees, is that we have to keep the bureaucracy in school to a minimum, because we all want the teachers to spend most of their time on the students, to provide education, to provide follow-up and guidance. At the same time, enough people who work in school feel that they do not see the reduction that there is a political will to implement. I want to challenge the Council of State a little bit on that. We are now promoting a proposal to reduce the bureaucracy by 25 pst. It won't get a majority, as it looks now. Nevertheless, there is a broad desire to reduce bureaucracy. My question to the Council of State is: what does the Council of State actually want to do to reduce bureaucracy and the time spent by teachers to things other than the students?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1252	Let me say three things. First of all, what have we done? This government has, among other things: the removal of a compulsory test at school. That didn't happen to the previous government, and you probably shouldn't think a Right-led government did it. We have reduced the number of written in-flight reports. We have removed a claim to prove that written in-flight assessment has been given. It keeps giving written in-depth assessment. You don't have to document it too. We've gone through all the national supervision and reporting there to make it easier. Secondly, what most teachers report is a time thief, often has origins in the municipality or in the school itself. Meaningless meetings are what most teachers say. I don't decide that schools should have pointless meetings. I would like to forbid pointless meetings, but it's a little difficult to do. Thirdly, once again, I agree with the Left's intention, and I would like to accept several specific suggestions, but to put such a number I think is a crazy way to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1261	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1268	Shopping power is not measured primarily by how many visits you have at different schools, or by how many chronicles you write in the morning paper. Hand-held force is measured primarily on results. After four years, what is left of the teacher as the most important thing in school – status, position, recruitment? Well, we're just in the middle of a recruitment crisis. The scan for teacher training is low. In some areas it has fallen sharply. Many hundred spaces are empty. Schools around the country, especially in the districts, tell us that it is difficult to get applicants, and we have more unqualified teachers than in the past. So in this, the Council of State boasts of its power of action. Four years are longer than you go to high school, four years are longer than you go to high school, four years are as long as you go to a teacher's education today. So it's a long enough period to be measured by its results. Maybe you should listen to the teachers: what makes the school more attractive for those who work there? How can you contribute to the teacher’s time, space, and confidence in using the profession in which you have education, experience and insight? How can you increase the teacher's density so that all students are seen? How can you really reduce bureaucracy so that teachers don't experience, as a professor said, being a remote-controlled drone? How can you ensure that there is quality and intensity in teacher training? How can you ensure that local curriculum work is reduced to a minimum and you get simple, transparent goals? How can you avoid meaningless meetings? Well, the Council of State can do something about it – it just describes the scale of action – by focusing on good school management, good practice in how to work in each school, how to motivate their employees and drive school development. The Council of State boasts that the grant is now being increased by $50,000 for those taking a particular education or job in a particular part of the country. But I don't think it's economics that's crucial. If the economy was crucial, we were on a creepy path, because one year's extra teacher training, for which the Workers' Party is – five years of teacher training, the Council of State is a little slow in its perception – costs a year's wage. So a teacher who takes a year of extra education will lose a year of work. If the salary and the economy – the calculation – were decisive, you should not have math skills far above the Council of State to calculate that one year's lost salary is more than $50,000 extra in scholarships. It's the professionalism, the ability to do the job, the quality of education, the experience, the mastery, the practice, the pedagogics, the job of seeing in the eyes of the students that they're actually learning what to do, the experience of succeeding, that you have time to help them, that helps to lift the teacher's status. Now it's going down.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1279	This issue and this debate have revealed a line of conflict in Norwegian policy – on the one hand, criticising just for criticising. I record that the representative Giske himself does not believe that the search has anything to do with the economy, but they themselves propose a trial scheme with reduced scholarships for teacher students. If you don't think it works, it's nice to spend money on it. And so it's – and this has come in many articles – the way you talk about the teaching profession versus all the other professions. For example, when you have: says that it's so sad that someone doesn't get into teacher training because of high recording requirements, what other studies do we read about or hear about these kinds of articles – one that would very much like to be a doctor, but didn't come in? It's because it's hard to be a doctor, and it's hard to be a teacher. Therefore, the requirements must also be high in order to get in. The NRK had a rather tabloid case after we introduced new admission requirements for teacher training, where they said: So and so many government councils could not be taught with the new admission requirements. Just as if it was a funny point – I have never read a case that the Minister of Justice had not come into law, or that the Minister of Health had not come into medicine. But for some reason, we talk in Norwegian society – and it contributes to the opposition in these speeches – about the teaching profession as something that almost anyone can have. That's not the case. That's why I think it's very special to hear the way you talk about it. The same applies to competence requirements. Yes, we say that those who are going to work as teachers in Norwegian school must constantly update themselves professionally, and that they must have in place depression in the common subjects in which they teach. Get out to a lawyer and ask him if he needs to update himself professionally in order to be allowed to continue to be a lawyer. Travel to a hospital and ask if the doctors need to update themselves professionally to keep the license to be a doctor. Travel out to a construction site and ask if the people working there are required to take professional updates in order to be allowed to work in that construction site with new technology. This is how our society is going to be within all occupational groups. It's a little strange for those who work with education, to have to say that education works, and that it has something to say about your professional skills. In the speeches that have been held in this debate and, to the extent stated in the comments, it is clear that an alternative in Norwegian policy among those making choices is to report Norway out of the PISA study, the world’s largest international school research. In this case, we will be the only OECD reporting country — proposing to convert national samples, which is a crucial tool for monitoring knowledge in Norwegian school, into sample samples. It's kind of typical socialist. You think you can help each one by calculating the mean. We don't think so. If we're going to help each one, we're going to have to help each one. It is good that the Workers' Party now makes it clear that they are in favour of a five-year education. But are they for a five-year master's degree? It's still unclear. In any case, the other two parts of the opposition are not for that. This is where the fight lies — on all these measures to increase knowledge and knowledge in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1294	It is clear that the right-wing representatives are reading polls, because they are now practicing well on the opposition role and criticising the opposition parties – even the centre party and SV – for proposals that they are promoting here in the Chamber. But it's the four years with the Right in the Ministerial Training Chair that are now being evaluated, that's what we can now see the fruits of. The question to the representative Asheim – and so far to the Council of State – is: Has the status of the teaching profession been raised in these four years? Has the recruitment improved? Has the throughput in teacher training been strengthened? The representative Asheim said something very interesting. He said that there are high demands for access to medical training because it is difficult to be a doctor. No, it's not, it's because there's a lot of good high school students applying for medical training. We have no agreed requirement to have an average of 6 in order to get into medical training. It is because there is a hard fight to get into the study, because it is a good study, an intensive study, with good follow-up, a lot of practice and – as Henrik Asheim must bring with him – no master's degree. Does this mean that the medical students do not have a master's degree or a higher education equivalent to that level? Of course, but they go in clinic, in practice, follow the best doctors out in geriatrics, in surgery, in various operating situations, and become experts in their field. That's how we should build a teacher's education, practice, pedagogic practice, raise professional status. Would we dream of trying to remote control the doctors on Ullevål, the Rikshospitalet or the Radium Hospital in the same detailed, bureaucratic way that the Right stands for in school policy, where each step is taken, to be documented, reported, tested, tested, written? You have to trust the subject. Of course, economics help. As Minister of Education, I contributed to an increase in teacher’s salary of $50,000 a year. I haven't seen the rotation of a millimeter of this. Some dozens of expert teachers – fine and great – but no boost for the general level of education. But you have to make sure that professional respect increases. After four years of informing us that the most important thing to strengthen Norwegian school is better teachers – read: the biggest problem in Norwegian school is too bad teachers – it’s no wonder that people shoot the school. We have to stop talking like the Right – stop talking about the teaching profession, the teachers, the ones who are in school, down. We must boast of those who do Norway's most important job: to train a new generation. Then we have to make sure that the professionalism, status, trust and commitment in the teaching profession come about. I promise you, it will start on September 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1307	It's obvious that the right has entered election mode, we hear that in the rhetoric. Then it's a little shame that the Adult-Hearing in the Chamber here confuses the rhetoric that is natural to use in a school debate like the one we have here, with the rhetoric they used in the school election debates as Young Right-Representatives for a short time back. It's not about who's making demands. It's about what requirements are smart and what requirements are not smart. What this government has done systematically is to introduce something that is not smart. We can say that it's not smart, because it's given worse results. Take, for example: The 4th requirement in mathematics. What is the result of that? Well, it's that high-quality young people, who Henrik Asheim wants to get into the teacher's study, don't come in. It is not a question of making tough demands, it is to make a claim that is not smart and works against its purpose. What it takes to solve the recruitment problem in Norwegian school is to make it attractive to be a teacher. If we're going to make it attractive to be a teacher, we're going to have to listen to what teachers say. We have the knowledge – as I mentioned in my article, the 2012 report – that shows what teachers are asking for, which shows what we have to do to make it attractive to choose the teaching profession, such as: the average of those applying for teacher training will rise. We know what's going on, but we have a government that systematically doesn't listen to what the teachers say is most important, and that does the opposite. But sometimes — and in politics it should at least be — the results speak for themselves, much more clearly than the rhetoric that the Right is trying to do. The result is that the teacher's density in primary school is reduced, that several unskilled teachers teach in Norwegian classrooms, and that many places in teacher's education are empty. These are results you can't talk away from. These are bad results, and it shows that the Right has failed in government position and as a knowledge party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1318	The representative, Henrik Asheim, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1323	Yes, that's what happens when you've spent your time on everything but promoting your own policies, just criticising. The representative Lightbakken calls my post a school debate post. Well, was there anything wrong with what I said? Hasn't SV suggested everything I rammed up? Didn't the Center Party suggest everything I rammed up? And hasn't the Labour Party given its support for much of this? If that's true, I guess that's what the campaign is about. Then that's what we need to talk about. Do you want more knowledge and knowledge about school, or don't you? The representative Geske thought it was completely absurd that we had made demands for 4 in math – that's not how you sit and control other educations. The working party is for the requirement of 4 in math. The Labour Party criticized us not to go far enough to introduce the requirement of 4 into math, criticised that we introduced a recording test that we could do to get 4 before you got in. But that's the way it gets when you're more concerned with criticising than promoting your own policies. Then you forget what you have voted for, and what you have proposed, and then it goes on empty. That's why these lots are also going to be in opposition for four new years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1330	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1346	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Green Party 5 minutes each and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines be given with replies from the main speakers of the parties and six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1357	Today, it is appropriate to start with the well-known oral cavity: it is difficult to predict, especially about the future. This is particularly true when we are going to facilitate a future solution for the Norwegian public broadcaster NRK in a media world of constant and unpredictable change. However, an overall increase is behind the conclusion that the current licensing system needs to be replaced by a new and accurate system. First, however, I would like to thank all the parties at Stortinget for participating in talks. As Chairman of the Committee, I immediately took the initiative to include everyone in the case when the notification was submitted. All parties have participated. It has been exciting and sometimes challenging to gather the threads, but I believe it has had a value in itself that all the eight parties have been involved and have been given the opportunity to make their questions and recordings. It was probably a while I felt there were eight solutions around the table too – at least – but for my own part I can at least say that this has contributed to an extra thorough consideration of priorities and solutions. We have a ‘gentlemen’s agreement’ not to deliver each other’s en route assessments in such a process, but I don’t think I reveal any secret when I say that several of the parties, including my own, have spent time landing on the sketch a majority has now gathered around for the ministry’s further investigation and work towards a final financial solution. Depending on the criteria that are given the highest priority, there are different solutions that point to being the best. Some of the comments made in the media seem to have been based on a misunderstanding. Report. St. 15 for 2016-2017 asks for clarification from Stortinget as to which or what trace a majority of Stortinget believes should be given priority in the further preparation of a final funding model. It is a demanding legal and regulatory work that is now ahead of us, and it would be unfortunate if the government completed it without taking this round with the Stortinget. Today, the government receives clear and priority input into the further work, and the Workers' Party, which is in a minority in the Committee, has priorities that largely follow the same lines. That's good. The majority of the Committee – the Christian People’s Party, the Advance Party and the Right – have, in agreement with the Swedish Environment Party and the Green Party, gathered on these priority issues in the further work of the government: a new regime should ensure the legitimacy and independence of the NRC as far as possible and predictability of the level of subsidies. It shall maintain a social profile to a greater extent than the current licensing regime. It shall ensure NRK value added tax refund as an incentive to purchase services and produce externally. It shall be simple and unbureaucratic and shall be robust and forward-looking with a long-term perspective. We ask the government to make the necessary investigations to promote a case to the Stortinget on a NoRsK model for funding the NRK, based on these criteria. We imagine that the NRK's income is secured by a contribution paid by people. The Government is asked to determine and, where appropriate, how a designation can be made without an annual decision having to be taken in the Grand Duchy. This is important to give the NRK a stronger independence than what we experience in today's licence model. One of the assumptions that is also taken into account is the Communication’s proposal to establish a four-year NRC steering signal adopted in the first budget drawn up in each new programming period. There are several technical solutions for how a contribution can be arranged, but different solutions give different results, not least for the NRK. We ask the government to assume that all persons with income who are over a certain age will pay the contribution. One of the priority objectives is that the scheme should have a social profile. This is important for the transition to the new system not to be dramatic for new payers, especially those who are alone. It is also important to ensure that large families with multiple incomes do not experience a significant increase in reference to today’s licence model. The majority ask the government to determine how best to do so, while at the same time doing so in a way that ensures an acceptable level of efficiency. The experience and competence of the Licensing Office in Mo i Rana will be important in this work. One of the demanding clarifications, which I also see several commentators have not received, is that the choice of the technical collection model can be decisive for the NRK’s right to deduct VAT. Of course, this is a decisive incentive for the NRK to purchase external services and productions, and the batches are therefore very concerned that this criterion must be met. The high proportion of external production in the NRK is of great importance for Norwegian media companies and the film industry. Such a wish has also been clearly communicated from Stortinget. The deduction of VAT is a decisive incentive and will have a significant impact on the economy of the NRK and a loss of VAT obligations will also have a revenue effect on the State budget. The government has received a demanding order, but we know that there are possible solutions to this. Now we ask the government to come back to Stortinget with a new, completed financing solution after the leadership given here. But it is not just funding that is the subject of this message. An overall committee, including here with constructive support from the parties on the Stortinget – other than the Centre Party – joins the amendment to a general NRK poster and is included as part of the statutes of the NRK. There is agreement on a few important clarifications that the Committee asks the government to include in the poster. One is to clarify the responsibility of the NRK for the dissemination of the Nordic languages. We therefore promote the following additional phrase in the NRK poster § 5: ‘The NRC shall communicate Nordic content and contribute to knowledge of Nordic societal conditions, culture and languages.’» It is important, probably more important than ever, to take responsibility for the Nordic cultural and linguistic work, and the NRC must have a very central place in this. Furthermore, the NRK has a specific responsibility to ensure media pluralism. It is important that the Storting points out that this must be done through cooperation with other actors, both locally, regionally and nationally. The lack is created by the fact that all actors, including the NRC, contribute to the development of journalism and the exchange of views. The Committee therefore proposes a clarification in Section 3 that responsibility for media pluralism must apply both regionally and nationally. I also think it is important to remind you of some references and stresses the Committee has made. Among other things, we point out: the responsibility of the public broadcaster for providing information to the population in crisis situations. Not everyone in the population has sufficient Norwegian knowledge to perceive information if it is communicated exclusively in Norwegian, and the Committee therefore asks the government to assess the whole of the information provided to the population in a crisis situation. The NRK is also challenged to assume responsibility for raising new talents and local artists, e.g. in the district consignments. An active relationship to this would mean way too many. The notification also mentions that the archives of the NRK should be made available for further use within the framework of legal rights. This is an important principle. The size of the store therefore underlines the importance today that the NRK takes this into account when concluding an agreement on rights, while we support the fact that the NRK can charge it for its own costs. It is appropriate to conclude by recalling that a large state enterprise such as the NRC has a special responsibility for tidy working conditions. The NRC shall invest in, maintain and develop its own competence in the activities in order to ensure innovation and quality. At the same time, copyrights must be respected. The NRC has the possibility and should take responsibility for being a lead actor in this field. This has been exciting, and the further work will be exciting. Through this treatment, we are helping to facilitate a good future media day with a solid public broadcaster.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1402	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1407	That this is exciting, is probably today's understatement, because in this case, the majority launches a model that, in our view, is completely unrealistic. One of the reasons why we have discovered that we cannot participate in the model proposed by the majority is that it creates significant uncertainty about VAT issues, both in terms of the VAT revenue of the State and not least in terms of the NRK's right to deduct VAT. Does the representative of Harberg believe that it will be possible to ensure the NRK’s deduction of VAT if it is the tax rate to collect the future licence?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1414	We have not said that in this case either. What we have said is that it should be a model based on people who pay, and that precisely that with VAT refund should be taken care of. There's several ways to do it. We know that. If this is set up as a user payment, this will be done in a good way, just as in the proposal – not from the Labour Party, but from others – that it can be a household model. So this we know can be solved. Now it's the government that's going to do a further job of weighing the different considerations up against each other and finding the right way to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1421	That's interesting, because there's nothing in the majority's remarks about how this is to be collected. We know that some parties, including in the media, have stated that it is natural that the tax rate is levied, while others may believe that in order to ensure the right to deduct VAT, it should be the NRK itself that requires. Does it mean Svein Harberg now says, that the Right View in this case is that it is the NRK itself who is going to claim the future license?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1428	The right view in this case is in the setting, so it should be very clear, and that's what the other parties are also behind: that here the government should weigh the different principles that we have set as a premise, up against each other, and find the model that best takes care of the different reasons. The independence and legitimacy of the NRK is the first principle. It must be ensured in such a model. Whether it's going to be collection here or there is what is now to be investigated and that will be investigated, and as the government has said it is ready to investigate. So we're not worried about that. We want the best model for the NRK in the future, and the criteria we have set, we believe – and we know – will be respected in the further investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1435	This is exactly what makes us very worried. It's about a rather important principleal clarification. It is about VAT revenue to the State of the order of 550 million. kr. This is about any additional cost to the NRK of between 400 million. SEK and 450 million. kr. If it is to be compensated, I doubt that the Right will get its own fiscal politicians on it. So you're left with a risk that the NRK will get stuck with the 450 million bill in the future. kr, which the Ministry itself writes will be a significant incentive to start with self-production rather than buying from external actors. That's why we need the Right to help clear that doubt. The only way we can imagine that this can be solved is precisely by unambiguously stating that the NRK itself is the one that will in the future demand this license. Will Svein Harberg contribute to that cleanness coming into place?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1444	As I said, we're behind the message, and I don't think Arild Grande might have heard after my post, where this with VAT reimbursement was significantly advanced and clearly clarified as something that had to be solved. I also showed that by making this a user payment it is taken care of. It's quite strange that Arild Grande and the Workers' Party, who themselves do not come up with a single proposal for a solution, and who have criteria that are confusing like those put in by the majority, criticize us for not having reached the final conclusion of the technical device on the collection. We leave that to the government, but it's clear leadership, and we've also clarified it here in the Chamber today. Same as how much Arild Grande tries, I don't think the confusion gets bigger. We're clear on the criteria, we're clear on what's important. It will be dealt with in the further handling of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1453	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1459	The public broadcasters are our main meeting places. We see a significant production of child TV, a significant news production, a network of correspondents reporting on news and events worldwide, a significant production of factual, documentary and topicality programmes and a wide range of entertainment services. We see actors as in particular the NRC, which connect Norway through e.g. the large summer programme productions – an actor who, in sum, contributes to the linking of Norway and the Norwegian people, contributes to high confidence in the population, and which is invaluable for our democracy. The Constitution § 100 obliges the authorities to facilitate an open and informed public conversation. It is ensured by the law, which guarantees freedom of expression and freedom of the press, and by media policy, which must contribute to a diverse and differentiated press. Norwegian media policy has been a success. No country has a larger newspaper diversity than Norway. The NRK is the public broadcaster with the highest population growth in the world. At the same time, Norway has several nationwide commercial television channels as well as greater growth in commercial television broadcasting and revenues than in other countries. On the radio front, there are no Nordic countries that can compare with Norway, and with the transition to DAB, with Norway first out, the audience receives a significantly better and wider range of services. In the last period, the Labour Party has promoted a number of proposals that could have strengthened the conditions for Norwegian journalism, which would have contributed more to ensuring media pluralism locally, regionally and nationally. It has been voted down by the government parties. We hope that the media diversity committee's attitude will form the basis for the right-hand side, too, to take action to achieve the objectives we seem to agree on in the media policy. It is the best guarantee of a media diversity that ensures an informed debate on key societal issues. When the Right Party and the Advance Party took over the government offices, there were many representatives from the two parties who were tall and dark when it came to the NRK. We saw statements that the NRK was about to be clipped, NRK's business online was to be limited, and the Progress Party was about to remove the NRK license. Now we hear no such talk. The right-hand side's talk was just talk. Never before has the agreement in this room been larger about the NRK. We're glad, and the right side has either forgotten what they stood for, or realized that it was bad politics. We welcome the agreement reached on the content requirements to be met by the NRK. The Workers' Party has had a positive impact on almost everything we've been involved in, such as the presence throughout the country, responsibility for Nordic languages, responsibility for local and regional artists, the respect of copyright, and the responsibility of the NRK for providing information in the event of a crisis. The Labour Party welcomes the fact that all parties support the essential role of providing a good public broadcaster as the basis for a living democracy and to ensure that information, news dissemination and preservation of Norwegian language and cultural history are taken into account. The ban on advertising on the Internet is continued and instructions for the presence and development of new services by the NRK within all important media platforms to reach the widest possible extent with the overall programme offer have been put in place. The responsibility of the NRK to contribute to the Norwegian media diversity is determined regionally and nationally. Media diversity is a prerequisite for our democracy. A four-year governance signal will contribute to the necessary predictability of transition and innovation in the general broadcasting sector. The NRC as a public broadcaster has a special responsibility for tidy working conditions. The NRC shall invest in, maintain and develop its own competence in the activities in order to ensure innovation and quality. At the same time, there is a pre-requisite for copyright to be respected, and the NRC as publicly owned and funded public broadcasting should be a leading player in this field. Then for funding. The biggest demand for a new funding model for the NRC was through the public broadcasting agreement over a year ago. The Workers' Party is disappointed by the lack of power in the current government parties and in the Minister of Culture of today. In the conciliation, we stated in a decision that ‘The government is asking the government to submit proposals for future funding of the NRC after the expert committee has delivered its recommendation, and by the end of 2016.’ The government has had a long time to find a coherent solution for future funding of the NRC. The Minister of Culture has not been able to follow it up. The working party considers it a breach of the agreement we entered into last year. Despite this, the Labour Party has participated in negotiations with the other parties on future financing of the NRC, with objectives of agreement on solution. However, the government parties have not been able to clear up the matter on Stortinget either, so that we could clarify the question of future funding of the NRK, and the government has not provided the Stortinget with sufficient answers that a solution could be possible before the summer. The striking signal and position expressed, in particular through the media and over several years in this case, unfortunately the Stortinget did not come to an end during this period, and thus it will be up to a new government to find solutions. The NRC has an important role as a public broadcaster, and a new funding model therefore needs to be put in place to ensure the legitimacy of the population. The model must support the independence of the NRK and be robust and forward-looking. Lack of clarification on important issues relating to the different aspects of funding models suggests that the Workers' Party proposes some general principles for future funding of the NRC. Funding should ensure the legitimacy of the NRK in the population, support the independence of the NRK and be robust and forward-looking. It must provide predictability for both the NRK and the licensees, and the case should be promoted for the Stortinget by the end of March 2018. According to our proposal, the model shall contain the following general principles: the licence shall be required by the NRK itself, and the scheme shall ensure the deduction of VAT, the independence of the NRK and the competence environment at the Licensing Office in Mo i Rana. It shall maintain a better social profile than the current licensing regime and shall ensure the financial predictability of the NRC, with compensation for price and wage increases. In addition, we propose that the Stortinget ask the government not to assess the state budget funding of the NRC. As I said in the line change a little while ago, we believe that the model that the majority is now sketching, simply cannot be realized. It creates considerable uncertainty for the economy of families, for the economy of the NRK, for the income of the country, for jobs and for independent producers who currently create jobs related to the NRC order. We're talking about a model that the majority has no answer to at all, and to a simple question about ensuring the NRK's VAT system by the fact that the NRK itself is charging the license, the Right cannot give a clear answer. This should be further investigated. It creates considerable uncertainty, not least for the many independent producer communities in Norway today. It should have been possible to agree on a model. The majority chooses to go for a model that is characterized by good intentions. You want a social profile – it does all the parties in the various proposals that are. One wants predictability – it does all parties. But a model that creates so considerable uncertainty, I don't understand that the majority finds it responsible to go in for. We hope that the debate can help solve some of the questions that the model of the majority raises, because as it now appears, it is chaotic, unyielding, and it creates considerable uncertainty. It is not the public broadcaster or Norwegian TV viewers served. With this I address the Labour Party's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1495	The representative of Arild Grande then addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1502	I want to start with the last representative of Grande, the social profile and the attack on the proposal that the majority agree on, that there is a lack of a social profile. Now I am unable with my best ability to find any concrete proposal for a model in the Workers' Party's proposal. It's very, very much like what the majority agrees on. Almost no difference is there. What model is the Labour Party pointing to that would have a social profile, as the representative of Grande was so concerned about?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1507	At the beginning of the negotiations there is no doubt that the Labour Party has been heading towards the household licence. We believe that this model is similar to today's household models are well used to both Netflix, HBO and newspaper subscriptions and today's NRK licence funding, for example. In terms of the social profile within the model, we believe that it is fully possible to maintain, whether you are talking about a household licence or a personal licence. But the answers we have received from the government have not enabled the Stortinget to make a clear choice as to how to maintain such a social profile. There I think all parties want to go a few steps further, but the Minister of Culture has not enabled the Storting to make any concrete decision about it now, and therefore there are questions that need to be investigated further.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1514	I would like to thank the representative of Grande for stressing that the social profile is fully possible also with the majority's proposals, and then one can wonder why there has been no proposal for a household tax when that is what they are for. But I would like to address something else, namely proposal No. 2, where you say the following: ‘The government is asked not to assess NRK’s government budget financing.’ It would have been interesting to hear the representative of Grande say something about how a government should not judge. As far as I know, at least the idea is still free in the kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1526	The reason for that proposal is that it is stated in the big message that, in any case – and it would have been if the Stortinge had also been able to adopt a model – the government will hold it up to a government budget funding. First of all, I think that is a very strange procedure from the government parties: to say that even if the Stortinge adopts a model, it should be kept up for state budget funding. There is no other reason why it says there than that the Progress Party should have a certain tab of impact in this case. But when we ask for it not to be implemented, it is primarily because we believe it threatens the independence of the NRK. We started the negotiations by saying that assessing a direct government budget funding for the generalcaster should be cleared up, because at all, assessing it sends a very bad signal to the Norwegian media environment — and also to the international, when we criticize other countries for having their fingers in the honey pot media.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1531	I must first make it clear that the Labour Party and the Grande have not proposed that it should not be implemented against the State budget, but it should not be assessed. And I don't think we got a response on how to handle it if a government council was going to evaluate it in the future. It's a very strange suggestion that the government shouldn't consider anything. But I wanted a line because I wonder if there is the uncertainty about how a household model – for which I perceive Grande is in favour – can be implemented with a social profile, which means that they themselves do not promote a single proposal for a model in this matter, while criticising the others for, until confusion equally premises to promote a model?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1538	Finally, we have tried to ask the Minister of Culture how to secure a social profile on it, and we have some thoughts about it, definitely, but the Council of State says in its letter of reply that there is a question that needs to be addressed further. The Stortinget has no opportunity to enter and adopt a perfect model, and that is why the question needs to be addressed further. I'm the first to apologize, because I should like to see the Storting being able to take that problem and find a solution before we split up this summer. But the Minister of Culture has not enabled the Stortinget to do so, and I find that sad. With regard to the issue of the State budget, it is possible that the Right considers it difficult to adopt, if it should have a majority. But at least I can promise that with a new Minister of Culture in place from the Workers' Party, there will be no problem in interpreting that decision, and there will be no problem in clearing that question, so that at least we guarantee the independence of the NRK.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1545	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1550	Today is a historic day in Stortinget – a historic day for the Progress Party in any case – with a matter that the Progress Party has called for most in the whole party's history and has made annual proposals for in Stortinget. The parties at Stortinget regard the role of the NRK as a public broadcaster as an important cornerstone of Norwegian democracy and want a sustainable device both in terms of funding and content production. I believe it is essential to facilitate good public broadcasters, and also competition in this area. It doesn't mean as much as possible, but it means having good and more public broadcasters, including those who don't get money from the state. They shall be a basis for a living democracy and to take account of information, news dissemination and the preservation of Norwegian language and cultural history. There's the whole Stortinget agree, and it's good to hear. The future financing of the NRC is not ensured by the continuation of the current licence, as stated in the Communication. This, as the Progress Party has said, has highlighted for a long time, but now it has become more and more topical with the media everyday we have in Norway and in the rest of Europe today. The cancellation notice follows up the treatment of the public service broadcasting message that we were dealing with, that the NRK poster should have fewer and more overall content obligations than today. The Storting Communication adds to a broad ban on advertising on the Internet, which has also been discussed several times in Stortinget, and there is a strong consensus that the NRK should not sell advertising on the Internet and not compete with private operators, and that they should reach the widest possible extent with the overall programme offer. The Committee supports the Ministry's assessment that the NRK should have an independent responsibility for contributing to Norwegian media diversity. It is also an important matter that should be taken with you. Diversity does not mean that the NRC is spreading as much as possible, but it means that the NRC must cooperate with other actors in the districts. The Committee points out that the Storting Communication follows up the Storting’s request decision on longer-term governance signals for the financial framework set by the Storing for the NRK. The licensing system is currently established annually during the treatment of the State budget. In the last few hours, negotiations have tended to be slowed down, while the Ministry of Storing recommends the introduction of a four-year steering signal. Several actors have now pointed to a personal tax on the tax bill. There has also been a discussion of household fees, and not least the Progress Party is pleased that all new arrangements for the State budget are being assessed. The Committee considers that such a governance signal could contribute to the necessary predictability of transformation and innovation in the general broadcasting sector. I notice that the Ministry believes the current NRK legislation is sufficient to ensure that the NRK discharges its social responsibility. There is no doubt that there are not many actors that have as large a regulatory framework around them as the NRC. I can agree that it captures it. The Committee stresses the special importance of the NRK as a historical archive and the dissemination of both historical visual and audio material. The Committee welcomes the fact that the size of the public broadcasting communication supports the further use of the archive material by the NRK. There we see that several major actors want to get a piece of it, which I think is completely relevant when we have financed this over the community. The Committee further supports the government in stating that it is important for the NRK to make information on the archive material, so-called metadata, available. So finally, I will refer you to the Norwegian Radio and Television Museum, which conveys this very historical everyday life. It is in Trøndelag, and everyone should take a trip to see the real story of both radio and TV everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1575	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1581	You have paid a license for the last time! The well-breathed Øyvind Korsberg from the Advance Party before the elections – if the Advance Party were to become a government. Now the Progress Party is taking part in a majority vote, which means that all adults should be involved in paying the NRK licence. That almost means a double in the number of licensees. What happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1588	I don't know if Grande has got the debate and discussion that has so far been in Stortinget. A personal fee is to be investigated, and a household fee is to be investigated, which Grande itself is in favour of, and which may remind us of a licence. The progress party is pleased that we also get this over the state budget, as a piece of this to be investigated to see what could be best for the inhabitants, which I have the impression that Grande has never taken into account before. In his post he used the word "licence", so it seemed like you were going on with it. Now you have at least said that you want to go into this assessment and see how this comes out for each person. As of the 2019 state budget, we have a completely different funding scheme for the NRK from what we have today. This is a progress for the Progress Party, and I think it is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1595	Not only runs the Advance Party from previous promises. They go in the opposite direction by dropping off the NRK license and rather introducing it for twice as many. I think that's an interesting maneuver. The straw strand of the Progress Party is that it should be kept up for government budget funding. That means 6 billion. kr in increased expenditure on the State budget. Has Ib Thomsen talked to Minister of Finance Siv Jensen about how to resolve that matter? Is this an increase in taxes, is it a cut-off for other budgetary purposes, or is it an increase in the use of oil money? It would have been interesting to get an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1602	I don't quite understand Grande's rhetoric. He claims that this should affect twice as many. He wants answers he has not received from the department. Where did Grande get this? After all, we are now sending an order to the government that we should investigate both the person and the household and look at this over the state budget. I think this is really the right way to go. Grande hasn't signaled anything about her own model, which is a household model. What effect does this have on households? Are there now more people paying than with today's licence model? I guess that's still a lot unspoken, and that's exactly what Grande asked, that he doesn't get answers to his questions. No, we have not received that either, and that is why we are now sending an order to the government to find out what we think is very important. What we can be sure about is that the license as it looks today will disappear in 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1611	I think Thomsen's answer makes clear the confusion that exists among the government parties as to which funding model to choose for the NRK. So the message has five models, and now Thomsen says that they have not chosen a model, they have to assess both government budget funding, passenger and household fees. Nothing is clear. Is it at all possible for the Progress Party to say anything about which model the Advance Party prefers?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1618	Yes, of course. As I initially said in my post, this is a historic day for the Advance Party. We want to remove today's license, and we want to get more models assessed against taking off the state budget to finance the NRK as a public broadcaster. It is clearly a preferred model that the Progress Party has had and will have. We've probably had it for 35 years. I guess there's no news that I'm dropping right here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1623	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1628	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good deal of work on an important and demanding matter. I also thank you for the initiative that was taken to try to make as good a deal as possible. If we look at the setting, we see that there's a lot of consensus about what kind of NRK we're looking at in the future. When we look at the content requirements, there's a lot of consensus. So what we didn't succeed in was agreeing on a future funding model for the NRK. What has been important for the Christian People's Party is that we get a funding model with a high degree of legitimacy, and not least arm's length distance. It's an important principle. All investigations have shown that today's licence actually has a rather high legitimacy. Although this can actually be discussed with arm's length since the Stortinget determines the level of the licence each year, it still has a high degree of legitimacy. That's what we must also seek to achieve in terms of future funding of the NRC. The Christian People's Party has been concerned that we need to put in place a new funding model that also maintains a social profile to a greater extent than today. I hope it can be possible to do that because a future financing model will mean that more than those who pay the license today will be involved in financing the NRK. Trying to get to and get a model with a minimum amount and a maximum amount has been important for the Christian People's Party. It is clear that the value added situation needs to be resolved. We can't live with a model that makes the NRK stop buying services outside their own house. They shall continue to buy services and produce externally. It is important to get in place, and therefore the VAT case needs to be resolved. We have also pointed out that it must be a simple and unbureaucratic financing model, and it must be robust, forward-looking and have a long-term perspective. I am glad that it is a total collapse, it looks like, which also wants to give four-year steering signals. It also helps to create predictability of a future funding model for the NRC. Otherwise I think someone is a little disappointed because they had hoped that the Storting would adopt a funding model that could also take care of other media besides the NRK. I want to warn you about that precisely because if you want to get a legitimacy attached to this, it's important that you point to the NRK and not expand it even more. Media surveillance and their recommendations are now being consulted. How you think about funding other media, Stortinget will have good opportunities to discuss later. This is an agreement, and part of the agreement is clearly that the Progress Party in the government wishes that whatever model you choose, it should be held up against a government budget financing. I think it's neat and correct of me, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, to say that we're not going to support a government budget financing of the NRK. Just because it's important with this arm's length distance and for the independence of the NRK, we don't choose such a model. I understand that the Progress Party has got this in place in government, but at least I want to signal very strongly that the Christian People's Party will not support it, if that's what's being presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1645	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1650	I'm very happy to hear that beckoning violence gives expression at the end. I understand that he is agreeing to an appointment that begins to feel uncomfortable. However, I invite the Christian People's Party to vote in favour of proposal No. 2 in this case, from the Workers' Party, which is precisely instructing that this should not be assessed against government budget funding. I understand that it may be demanding, but I am pleased with the signals being sent, and that in this way you torpedo the progress party perhaps the most important straw straw in this case. With regard to the question of VAT that Bekkevold himself raised in his post, and how to ensure the right to deduct from the NRK, we do not believe that it can be ensured in any way other than that the NRK itself requires the licence. Does Confession agree with that view, or does Confession consider that it is also necessary to assess whether the tax charge should be levied on the future NRK licence?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1657	This is one of the questions that we ask the government and the ministry to come back with a solution. I think it's a good solution based on the general principles we've established for a future funding model. But this is one of the things that burns, and we're very clear in our notes and in our order to the ministry that this is something you have to find a solution to, because we can't have a situation that leads to the NRK stopping to buy services and productions outside of its own house, or the NRK adding an extra charge of 450 million. kr. But we're asking the department to come back with a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1663	I am pleased that Mr Bekkevold is also aware of this, and I have myself explained how we believe that this matter can be resolved very well. If it turns out – we have also asked the Minister of Culture in writing – that it is not possible to secure VAT legislation if the tax rate is the only natural solution is that the NRK itself is charging the licence?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1668	This is too early for us to decide. Now we have to see what kind of answers we get from the department, and what the government might put forward as a solution to this. Nor can I see that the Workers' Party has pointed to a very special model that respects the general principles of the Workers' Party itself. But this is some of what we're asking the government to come back to, and I hope and believe there will be a solution to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1673	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1678	The background of this case is known, among other things. Decision of the Grand Prix in March of last year. With regard to the importance of the NRK and the need to ensure a media diversity, I refer to the previous debates we have had on it, among others. in the context of the general programming and budgetary debates. I need to say something about the content of this message, or rather the incomplete content of this message, and it makes it necessary to address the process until today. In my post last March, I allowed myself to come with a little heartache over the government's insidiousness in media policy. In almost four years, this government has not been able to land the issue of future funding for the NRC, nor does it do so through today’s debate. First, the government promoted a big message on public broadcasting, where important questions were not answered. Two selections were then set up to explore alternative models for public funding of NRCs and economic instruments, respectively, to ensure media pluralism. Then it became necessary for the bulk of the population, through the 2016 agreement, to provide clear leadership for a faster schedule than the government had planned. By application decision V, all lots, except the Party for Progress, were adopted as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for future funding of the NRC after the expert committee has delivered its recommendation and by the end of 2016.’ Nevertheless, after first promoting one notification, having received a clear order from Stortinget and then an investigation into different funding models, the government cannot, however, promote a proposal for a new funding model for the NRC. Instead, the Stortinget is presented with an incomplete five-model notification and is informed that the government needs additional time to investigate them and, in addition, a statement that all funding models would be assessed against an ordinary government budget allocation. There was a solution that none of the last year's conciliators suggested. As mentioned in the previous submissions, all batches have attempted to arrive at a common position. The centre party, which is not represented in the committee, has participated in the discussion with the wish to land a model and thus ensure the NRK predictability. And let me thank the members of the committee and the representatives of the parties for the initiative for that kind of conversation and for the attempt to get the case in port in line with the Stortingen's request. Unfortunately, due to a lack of preparation and response from the government, both before and during, it has not been possible to land something similar about a new model. The central party considers it unfortunate that in this way, despite constructive recordings and attempts by all parties on the Stortinget, the government has not been able to investigate the matter well enough to ensure that the Stortinge actually has a good enough basis for decision-making. In the absence of a response from the Ministry, the Centre Party must recognise that there are unresolved questions and the need for further clarifications and clarifications. It is a responsibility that the government must bear alone. However, even if the clarifications are incomplete, it is possible to limit further work by selecting one model for further detailed regulation. In the choice between models, the Senterpartiet has stressed the following: the model must be platform neutral, it must respect the independence of the NRK, it must not cost NRK and must therefore continue the NRK’s right of deduction for inward VAT. The model must have a social profile, and it must be unbureaucratic. The Centre Party considers that a household fee is the model that can best meet most of these different needs, and that there is also the least uncertainty about it. It's also the solution that the majority of experts agreed to. That is why we are promoting our own proposal today, which takes account of the conditions that we believe a new financing model needs to be met. In the case of the other proposals, concerning the form of ownership, four-year control signal, etc., the centre party will follow the setting. In the case of I and II, on the clarification in the NRK poster, the Centre Party will support them. In addition, we have made a proposal to clarify the content of a new Section 9 in order to carry out the NRK's district work. With that, I'm promoting the proposals of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1702	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1709	It was precisely to one of the proposals that the representative raised at the end, that I had a question. The proposal envisages adding that the use of resources for productions targeted at a national audience does not go beyond the territorial task. I want to ask a little about it, because isn't any of the quality with the district offices that they can deliver good local and regional entries to Dagsrevyen, to Norway today and to other programs? Does this not have anything to do with journalistic ‘drive’ in the district offices? Is it not a good point to communicate issues that are local, close and regional, but that can be sold with national interest? It's nice to cover the first lion's tooth, and it's nice to cover the local martnan. There's nothing wrong with that -- on the contrary, it's a bit of a mission. But is it not also the task of reflecting regional and local Norway for the rest of the population? Now we do not interfere with this proposal in the regional editorial evaluations that the different editors in the districts make today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1716	Well, it's nice that district offices can produce reports aimed at a national audience. It's very nice. However, it should not go beyond the task of the district offices to produce content addressed to the region in question that they are to cover. That's the balance sheet the Central Party is asking for, and that's the balance sheet this proposal is about. I think it's necessary to clarify at a time when we know that the district offices are, after all, the bottom line that makes the big community largely accept that we're going to finance the NRK in the way we choose to finance the NRK.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1721	I think the NRK manages that balance sovereignly today. Do I understand the representative Arnstad so that the NRK does not have a good balance, and is that why you want to interfere in the editors' assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1726	The representative Eidem Løvaas correctly interprets the Centre Party when he interprets the Centre Party to your point that we are concerned about that balance in the future. Otherwise, I realize that the Right wants to make a point that they think this is too detailed, or that they want to intervene in the priority of the NRK and its content. I have to say that I don't think this is anything more in terms of content production than the proposal made by the Committee on the amendment to Section 5, which concerns the production and dissemination of content from the Nordic region and the participation in knowledge of Nordic social conditions, or that the Ministry also proposes that new talents or local artists should be presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1731	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1736	The NRK license is something most of us have a relationship with. Even we big-time representatives, who often get blamed for having very good and rusty arrangements, usually have a relationship with it. I think that when I came into Stortinget and we got information from the administration here about the commuting houses we got access to, it was said that we did not have to think about electricity, renovation, water and everything there – it was fixed – but the broadcasting fee we had to pay ourselves. So here we are with the people – at good and bad. The left is not represented in the committee, but we have been invited to talk about this work. We're really happy about that, and we're essentially happy with what a shared multiple is behind it. The left is for changes in the funding model of the NRK, mainly for two reasons. The first is that we're busy with the social bias that lies in today's funding model. The second is developments within the media, the media market, and people's habits, where we are also concerned that today's model will not be viable in the long term. There's every reason to look at changes here to ensure the NRK a good and safe funding in the future. So it's supposed to be, and I think it's part of this debate, that at a time when very many media houses have major funding challenges, the NRK is still a privileged player who, after all, has a secure funding today. That's what they're going to have. It is good that there is essentially a lot of agreement in the setting here, as far as we can see. There is a main inconsistency here between the Labour Party and the Centre Party on one side and the rest on the other, where they are primarily concerned that the NRK will collect this and that it will be a household fee. In our view, there is no need to narrow down the alternatives to it when one now sees a further work in government. On the contrary, we believe that the majority of them have landed on, and that we support, are sensible guides to the work that is now to be done. What is particularly good about what you have landed on is that you should ensure that contributions are paid by people, that there is something you should look at carefully. That means we're important to get to the social profile that should be there to get a fair distribution of financial responsibility. A lot of people would probably want someone here today to land on a model, but I think it's okay if a user takes a little bit more time to make sure that something that you're absolutely sure is right, and that the most possible thing in this house can stand behind. It has a value in itself. There are a lot of good arguments being put forward for why it's right that the funding of the NRK has an arm's length distance from the politicians, and I agree with that. But you can ask yourself questions about whether those arguments are equally valid when it comes to other media support schemes we have – press support, support for commercial public broadcasting, etc. I think so. Therefore, I think that a future beneficial should consider finding a system that finances the NRK, but that can also be with and fund other important media content. It may, in my view, be the same model, so that one secures the important principle of distance, fair collection, etc. From the left's perspective, it would be a sensible track to follow in the long term. But no matter what you choose, you'll never be able to disengage funding entirely from political considerations. It is now time for political decisions to be taken when charging fees, licences, tax money or whatever it may be, and for one to be able, as far as possible, to disconnect it from the annual budgetary priorities, for example. It's an important value, and it should try to do it. Finally, I will end up with what the representative Harberg said in the introduction. It is not very directly connected to this, but I thought it should be said anyway, and it is about NRK's responsibility as an employer. I'm on the job and social committee every day. There we are concerned that one should be able to limit the use of temporary additions, and unfortunately we have heard too many stories from, among other things. The NRK if what I think is an employer policy that is not good enough. That's what I hope to be noted. The last thing I'm going to say is that the Left will vote in favour of the plural setting and against the proposals of the Labour Party and the proposals of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1756	Let me thank the leader of the committee, the spokesperson for the case and everyone else who has been involved in conversations, for the work. It's a time for everything and a cause for everything. There is a time for conflict, clarification of differences and struggle to the last comma, and there is a time to be pragmatic, to find common solutions and to stand together on what is important. This time, 2017, and this case is definitely a time to try to find common solutions, because the NRK has been a decisive institution for democracy and community in Norway – and it should be in the future as well. So we're going to go over the total unity that's now on the Storing, about the main lines for which the NRK is going to be. The larger has certainly not been united since before Anders Lange's time. And it's probably true, as Ib Thomsen of the Progress Party said up here, that it's a historic day for that party: never did they mention the NRK so positively in a big message. For this reason, it may also be a little disappointing, in my view, that we were not some – after extensive conversations – about a main model and a direction for the future NRK that the whole Storting could join. Why was that important? Well, first of all, because unity creates security into a new ageing period. I think it would have made it easier. But the most important reason I found few or no one has mentioned, and that's that it's urgent. In just a few years, we've got new cool kids who barely watch regular linear television. I look at it on my own children: they don't watch the TV. There's a monitor they're looking at whenever they want. Now there are quite a number of young people who are not used to paying licenses, and since this will take time, we risk going into a situation where a significant proportion of young people are not watered down by the fact that it costs something to have the common good that a public broadcaster is. The same thing happened to our newspapers. That's why it's urgent. There is no point in taking the dishes here after those negotiations, except to say that there is a need for will and pragmatism by many, that is. All, to host some. Furthermore, I think we need to think about the following, which I just add here to my colleagues and future conversations. And the first is: True it or not, but there are actually several ways to do it that can work. Countries are doing different things, and public broadcasters are continuing. Maybe you can even combine them into something that can work. So it's not heaven or hell, black or white. It's about finding the best model of more for Norway and connecting him together. We, as all the other parties, except for two, believe most in a personal model and move on in that main track. The second is that all models face challenges, because there are many different concerns to be addressed and they need to be balanced. But let's not make those challenges insurmountable mountains, but try to solve them to the best of their ability and weigh them against each other. Now, the reality is that there's a lot of agreement in Stortinget about what the mission of the NRK is, what we want with the public broadcaster, which is a very good basis for continuing the important institution in Norway. But the reality is also that the question of funding, which was the most difficult, and which was the reason why the message was sent, has actually been postponed. In reality, it is then open to all types of models, and there must be extensive work on it. Therefore, I believe it is very important that the new Minister of Culture after the election – whether it be the sitting or the whole other – take the lead in that work, point out a direction and work at a high pace with it, to a greater extent than the government we now have the power to do. To complicate this further, the distribution from the media failure selection is now leading, and it would be natural to see this in conjunction with it. The new Greatness must have greater power than one had this spring, to gather about a common solution, to put away the pettything and to try to become some of something that has great legitimacy, that preserves the legitimacy of the NRK and that primarily takes the height of the big and important things when we're going to design the license for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1790	I want to start by thanking the committee chairman and the case rapporteur for a thorough work. I also very much want to thank the parties that are behind this majority position, for a thorough and very constructive effort to try to achieve the widest possible majority in the Grand Duchy on this matter. On the government side, we have been committed to trying to commit to the widest possible majority to support what will be the future funding of the NRC. That's why we were busy coming back quickly to the Storting after the conciliation last year. We invite Stortinget to come up with clear principles and leads for which model we are going to go on with and investigate in detail. We have pointed out some models in the message, and I am very pleased that a large majority in the Stortinget has now given us clear signals about what we are going to investigate further and what model we are going to come back to Stortinget with the completed investigation. It is a joyous day for the NRC and for Norway that such a large majority are now involved in ensuring stable and forward-looking funding for the NRC – NRK, one of our largest and most important cultural institutions, and helping to ensure a wide range of high-quality content provision for the whole country and all parts of the population. As public broadcasters, the NRC shall provide content of democratic, social and cultural value to society. Thus, the NRK is a public good that the community should be involved in financing. It is important to get clear signals about further funding. I'm very glad you're calling about the NRK, that you agree on the way forward for the NRK. But when you sit in this room, you would think that the committee was in complete disunity and that there was a complete disagreement about the future of the NRK. Fortunately, it's not like that. That is why I want to commend the contributions of the representatives of the Christian People's Party, from the Left and from the SV – in addition to all the good work that has now been done in the Stortinget, which gives signals to the government. I am also pleased with what is said from this pulpit. Since its establishment in 1933, the NRK has been financed by an apparatus-based broadcasting fee. That arrangement has worked well. Now we see that we have to change the funding model because we see so big changes in the media everyday to people. I am very pleased that the Stortinge determines so clearly what are the important considerations and principles, in particular related to the administrative costs – that they should be low, that there should be little bureaucracy. And not least independence is important. It is good that a majority of the committee asks that the government now investigate a model in which all people over a certain age pay a contribution to the NRC. I think it's an interesting model that's adapted to Norwegian conditions. It's not easy to copy a model from one of our neighbouring countries. I think we should adapt it to our system. Here's a solution that we're now going to go on and investigate. We're going to decide how the collection itself is going to be done, and how to differentiate a system to ensure a good social profile. I am concerned about this, especially the objections I got in the work on the notification that a household fee would be quite unsocial in terms of everyone paying exactly the same regardless of how much you earn. If you live in a collective or on a flat, you have to pay as much as if you live in a single dwelling. This is why it is important to investigate this in detail and to provide the size of the knowledge needed to adopt a financing model that will last many, many years in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1803	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1808	I record that the Minister of Culture is extremely pleased with today, and in many areas we are quite close to each other, especially in terms of content requirements. But we are partly far apart from each other on funding, and we could have come much further than we are today had it not been for a lack of will and action by the sitting and the previous Minister of Culture. First, an expert committee was set up to assess the funding of the NRC. Then came a big message about public broadcasting, where this was not solved. A new expert committee was set up. Then Stortinget found it necessary to make a settlement where we asked the government to come up with a new model by the end of 2016. Then came the NRK message, but no solution. The Councils of the Right have done nothing but push the whole issue ahead. The question that remains is: How satisfied is the Minister of Culture with the capacity to act in finding a solution to the future financing of the NRC?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1813	In the media policy, there has actually been a lot of happening in these four years, and especially if we compare with the eight years before. We've got zero VAT, which the Labour Party government said was impossible to get into – that's the last thing they said before they left the Ministry of Culture office. We have put in place a technology-neutral production support, we have submitted a communication on commercial general programming, and now we have also asked the Stortinget to give us some signals as to which model will best fund the NRK in the years to come, which will best ensure a good anchoring and legitimacy in the people, and which will be effective and not bureaucratic. I am pleased that the position of the NRK as an institution in Norwegian society is now being established today in Stortinget, and I am pleased that there are now so clear leaderships when we are going to go into the details here and investigate. Then I have good faith that we will come back with a solution, and that there will be a decision in Stortinget in not too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1818	My question was about funding the NRC, not all of the other advances that have been made in media policy after the majority of the population has pressured the government to act. This is about the funding of the NRC, and here the government has done nothing but abuse every opportunity to make progress – just pushed the whole issue ahead. However, the lack of response from the Minister for Culture is also a clear answer. I have asked the Minister of Culture a written question about VAT and the possibility of obtaining the NRK's right to deduct VAT if it turns out that in the future model it is the tax rate that demands the NRK licence. That question remains unanswered, and seems even more unclear to me, despite the fact that we have asked that question now to a number of the representatives of the majority. But the Minister of Culture may be able to answer whether she sees that it is possible to maintain the right to deduct if it is the tax rate that requires the licence.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1825	Yes, I'm going to answer that, but first I just have to say that it's fascinating first to shut up because the government doesn't provide a clear model, and then the majority in Stortinget shut up because you don't support a concrete model, and then I'm probably going to blow because I haven't given the Workers' Party the opportunity to conclude about a model. I understand that for those who sit and follow the debate from the outside, it's quite confusing what the Workers' Party really means, criticising others for not concluding, but who don't do it on their own. When it comes to the deduction of incoming VAT, I believe it is very important – it is very important – that the NRK still receives the deduction when they buy external services. I believe that is a prerequisite for the rational operation of the NRK. I believe in principle that we can secure it in two ways. One is that we need to create a model that is designed in a way that meets the turnover requirements of the VAT Act, so that the NRK contribution can be converted as it is today. Option 2 is that we can consider introducing a scheme where the NRK is compensated for its documented costs related to external purchases.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1832	For the last model: in that case, the sample surface of the state will be 550 million. kr, if one is to compensate for the 400-450 million. kr that the NRK receives in increased VAT obligations. I doubt that the Minister of Culture has clarified with the Minister of Finance that they intend to clear it up – ergo, there is a collapse at that point of view. Secondly, I also doubt that this would be possible if it was the tax rate that demanded it. Nor does it give the Minister of Culture any answer. So what we're left with is that there's probably no other solution than that the NRK itself is charging the license. It is written by the Council of State that when the Stortinget has brought the matter to its attention, future funding will be suspended for government budget funding. But everyone knows that it's a hopeless way to go. The Christian People's Party clearly stated that they cannot support such an assessment. Is it at all a reality, or is it just a word that the Advance Party should be on board the boat?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1841	Since the representative of Grande has a hard time understanding my answer, I have to repeat it. As far as VAT is concerned, I believe it is very important that the NRK continues to have a deduction from VAT when purchasing external services. Therefore, we need to determine how best to take care of it. Then there's no more doubt about it, President, you hear what I'm saying! Point 2: It's very fascinating to hear the Workers' Party talk about an arm's length distance. It is absolutely terrible if the NRC is to be financed from the State budget, but commercial public broadcasting is not a problem to be financed from the State budget. Despite the fact that there are all the parties here in Stortinget's pulpit and tell which channels are to be financed from the state budget – and how much – but in the case of public broadcasting, it is not even necessary to assess state budget funding. Can the representative tell me the big difference in principle between the two things?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1848	The next replicator is Marit Arnstad. Otherwise, the President will follow what the representatives say.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1854	The last one was a little eye-catching, and I'd like to ask the Minister of Culture if it's such that the Right can actually imagine the state budget funding of the NRK. Is it so that there is an alternative for the government? Is it so that the right is behind it? If, today, the Council of State is creating uncertainty about funding that should be arm's length away from the budget, the state budget and the annual budgetary decisions, I think she will help to clarify that situation right here and now. Otherwise, I have to say that I also have to ask the Council of State to be a little careful about making fun of the Labour Party's expense regarding the question of decision-making. It is the government's responsibility to provide the Storting with a good enough decision-making basis. What Stortinget decided last year was not that we should get five models and then get answers from the department that do not clarify any of the questions that Stortinget has. My question is simply: why did the Council of State and the government choose to propose five funding models instead of one proposal, as the Stortinget asked last March?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1863	First of all, I just have to point out the message – I expect the representative to have read it. It says that once all models have been evaluated and examined, it should be looked into with a view to funding the state budget. That is what I am referring to, and I repeat what the government has proposed in its own big message. So there's nothing new in it; it's clear. For the purposes of point 2, finding out the models that we got from the Rimmereid committee will require considerable time use, because you have to go into very detailed tax models, which would have taken a very long time. I was busy coming back quickly to the Storting, because I am impatient with the changes that are taking place in media policy. And because the government is committed to having a broad anchoring of and a broad support for the NRK funding, we chose to go to the Stortinget to get signals back on which of the models we are going to investigate further. We have received a clear answer to that now, and I am very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1870	This government has had almost four years to finance the NRC. There's been a theme throughout this big period, and the Stortinget has at every crossroads had to draw the government in the right direction, we've had to tell them that they're going to operate faster than they've done. Then you come back and suggest five models, and you're not able, during the Greatness treatment, to give answers to the most basic questions related to each model. And now we're still facing a time period when the government is going to investigate procedures, etc. again. Unfortunately, there is no very lucky process for a question that concerns many of us – and it starts to be urgent, as the representative Solhjell was concerned about earlier. I must also note that the government and the Council of State have now created uncertainty. We've all been concerned that there should be a distance between funding and NRK, that is, that there should be a long-term and independent scheme. And now the government and the government stand here and create uncertainty on that issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1877	I don't know how much uncertainty you can create when you refer to the message, and also refer to the setting, and point out that after exploring the models in more detail, you have to look it up against government budget funding. I am just repeating what is in the big news, and what several representatives have said here today. I'm very happy that all people over a certain age with income are going to pay NRK contributions, that's the model that the majority is now pointing to. That's what the government is about to do. It's going to be a lot of work, but we're going to do it as soon as possible because we're also impatient to get this in place. Then we're not least concerned that NRK funding should have a social profile. It's important to us. What it is now pointing to, among other things: in the case of a household fee, we are warned against from a very large number of teams, because it will have a very unsocial and unfortunate profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1884	I didn't really find anything wrong in the state council's posts, but I didn't find a lot of traces of where she and the government think they're going to go, and what timetable they have. I think I'm also the most critical comment I've had on the government's handling of this matter in the last few years – not the first two. The changes have come quite quickly now, but neither about the processing of the message last year nor in the message, which is just a menu, nor in response to the follow-up of the committee's work in ours, I have experienced it as a very sense of urgency or a guidance on where we go, from the council and from the government. So my question is quite simple: if the Council of State is elected, will it give about, quickly submit a proposal, work with the Minister of Finance and others and solve the challenges that lie there, so that we can get the progress we haven't made in the last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1891	First, I want to commend the representative, Solhjell, for a very constructive and thorough work on the message here. I'm very happy about that. The recordings that SV has made have been a very valuable contribution to the fact that we have ended up there today. Then I want to make sure that we prioritise this high in the department, high in the government, because we are concerned that the legitimacy of the NRK is going to persist and be strong when we now see that the media habits of people are changing so much. That is why we want to put in place a new financing mechanism quickly. Now the majority – a large majority – have given us clear signals as to what we are going to do. This is what the Minister of Finance and I will take the greatest seriousness and work as quickly as we can and come back with a proposal for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1898	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1903	Norway is a small country, but with a large public broadcaster, which has a strong impact. The importance of having a strong public broadcaster that takes care of our language, our culture and identity are special given the size of the country – a public broadcaster that also has the ability to cross municipalities and county borders, and maintains important media workplaces throughout the country. Yes, in many ways they're the journalistic glue for the many stories you're going to tell, of national and local interest. This is what the NRK is doing. The societal mission is understood and carried out every day. It is also in many ways that people feel that they are happy in the NRC, that they experience NRK as important, both in everyday life and not least in a possible crisis. The NRK has a major mission to be in constant readiness, both formally and informally. There are many district offices and editorial presence throughout the country. As of today, the NRK has the largest domestic editorial office in the country, with more than 500 journalists publishing content from all over the country every day. It's hard not also to have a nostalgic relationship with the NRK. It has been with and imprinted on the growth of children and young people, including mine. The cultural highlight of Haugesund in the 1980s was like 'Half Seven' and the artists who got to act there. In the summer was the «Take the chance» from Holmenkollen my visit to the capital. I experienced knowing the capital of Norway through the NRK. The amazing thing was that we children and young people had the same preferences and got big, nice cultural experiences. We could do the lyrics for Pelle Paraffin's Waveband. But that's actually the way it is today. ‘Shame’ gives this preference to today’s children and young people. Whether you live in Kautokeino or in Utsira, quality series and programmes are made available to all children and young people. The NRC as a public broadcaster is obliged to discharge a responsibility to raise new talents and local artists in e.g. district or in the best possible time. Therefore, the public broadcasting role is important. Therefore, it is important that we also have a government that is clear about what kind of funding conditions the NRC will have in the future. I believe the NRK is Norway’s most important cultural institution – for those who work in the industry, and for us who are to be entertained or informed. I want the NRK to challenge us, who are citizens of this country, and not least involve us in the future. As a politician and elected national, I am happy to belong to a party that is clear that we want a strong public broadcaster. With regard to the previous debate that has been in this Chamber, it tempts me to quote TV 2 and their slogans in terms of the government's view of funding – we just get to ‘see what's going on’.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1918	I think those who follow the debate are wondering, because it seems like it's not so much broad consensus. But that's what it is -- it's a very broad consensus. There is a very large consensus on content obligations, and there is a large consensus on how to move forward to look at the funding model. As well as everyone agrees, most of them in the setting. And then there's some exceptions, and I actually want to give some credit to the Center Party, which is among the two that aren't part of the funding, but actually make a concrete proposal. Unfortunately, you cannot say that about the Workers' Party. But we agree on legitimacy and independence. We agree on the social profile. We agree to secure VAT refund. We agree that it should be simple and unbureaucratic. We agree that it should be forward-looking. We agree that this should be predictable. We agree on a four-year control signal. All of this is also agreed by the Workers' Party, and I really do not understand the Workers' Party in this matter. We heard the representative Arild Grande say that he hoped we would get further today, but that there is a lack of will. But there is no lack of will. There is a large majority who agree on the way forward. It's not a lack of will. That the Workers' Party has chosen to stand outside that majority, even though – when looking at the proposal they are promoting – they agree, it must be up to the Workers' Party to explain. At least I don't get it. I'll come back to proposal No. 2, which the Labour Party has also promoted, but first of all I want to say a little about what the case rapporteur was also talking about. We've been talking about the media diversity. We have talked about the responsibility for Norwegian language. We've talked about responsibility for Nordic language and Nordic culture, how the NRK is responsible for linguistic minorities, for sporting events, for making archives available, for being present in the districts and for being an important institution when it comes to preparedness. We also agree on all of this. So the Workers' Party says we want to cut the NRK. Then we're probably beginning to approach a proper media diversity, because if you Google "wing clips" and "NRK", there's a quote from the representative Hege Haukeland Liadal, where she says she suspects that the new government will clip the NRK. But from that to describing reality as someone in the government has said it — well, it's to drag it even further than even journalists in a hectic everyday doing. I don't think you should do that from this pulpit. So problematizes a number of things. How should the collection be carried out? What about VAT if it is the tax rate that is to be levied? Nowhere does it say that the tax rate is going to charge it. It's a constructed problem setting. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, 2, which I'm going to spend a little bit of time on, where you're going to suggest: ‘The government is asked not to assess NRK’s government budget financing.’ It's a embarrassing suggestion. You can't ask a government to consider anything. It would have been very tempting for the Right and the Advance Party to come forward with a proposal asking any future government not to consider increasing taxes, but that is not how it works. You can ask a government to assess things, you can ask a government to carry out laws that we adopt, but you can't ask a government not to assess. I believe that the Workers' Party had been well served to draw that proposal rather than to maintain it, as it may in fact in the utmost consequence at least challenge the Constitution. In the end, I'm going to end up in a slightly cheerful tone, because I want to bring along a couple of curiosa from the message as well. I notice that the broadcaster is in the hall, and I guess he's comfortable with it, but now it's like employees in the NRK, including the broadcaster, have to start paying licenses after this – and I think that's pretty fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1942	The debate is getting closer to the end, and it's time to bring together some threads. We have heard from Ib Thomsen that this is a historic day for the Advancement Party, and in truth it is. The fact that we have a historically broad consensus on the importance of the NRK for Norwegian democracy, the Norwegian community and the Norwegian media diversity are new tones that we have never heard from the Progress Party before and that I am pleased that you are now in favour. And then it's also historical for the reason that instead of pre-empting your original view of removing the NRK license and promising the voters that they will no longer pay a license, you're on a majority point where it says that it's a prerequisite for all adults to contribute. That means, if Ib Thomsen is wondering about numbers, we're going from about. 2.3 million households to 4.1 million people over 18 years of age – almost a double in the number of licenses to pay. The progress party tried to settle down ashore is a passus to keep the model up for a government budget funding of the NRC. It is such a serious attack on the independence of the NRK that NRK journalists have opposed the proposal and have asked that it not be adopted that it does not consider such an option. I understand that, because it challenges the independence of the public broadcaster and sends a bad signal internationally. It is so serious that even the Christian People's Party, which is actually part of the majority's proposal, finds reason from the pulpit to say that one does not want to defend such an opportunity. I think the Minister of Culture should take that on board. And if the Minister of Culture can signal here that that assessment does not intend to be carried out by the Minister of Culture because it is an unrealistic grip, we shall be the first to draw that proposal, because then we are well pleased. However, the Minister of Culture has reiterated in this debate that there should be an assessment of state budget funding. That is why we are still on that proposal, but we invite the Minister of Culture to come up and explain that it is not being implemented. The majority have then stated that it is absolutely essential for them to solve the VAT question. But there are no signals at all from the government parties on how to secure it. It hangs in the air, both the question, the future of the NRK economy, for workplaces and for independent producers who carry out tasks ordered by the NRK. And not least, it hangs in the air what the proposal of the majority means for the family economy. It's characterized by many good intentions, but the impression is a chaos model. It reminds me of a story from former representative Jon Leirfall – I think it was – who carried his grand committee on a trip to an African country. On the bus they drove past a camel. Jon Leirfall pointed to the camel and said, look, guys, this is a horse that a grand committee has built. This can quickly be the case when good intentions in sum are to be a proposal that looks something quite different when it comes through the mills than what may be realistic to implement. And that's the majority's model as they sketch it in today's setting. It actually writes the majority itself, when they close their comment that if the model proves impossible to implement, that government asks for an alternative model. Not only is it on the ground resting, it's actually a step back in relation to where we were over a year ago. I fully agree with Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, who says that when we come to a new period of ageing, we need a government and a Minister of Culture who takes on the leadership in this matter, for this whole period has been marked by abuses of opportunities. We need a new majority to see the value of securing funding for the public broadcaster and seeing the importance of the public broadcaster for Norwegian democracy. Then we need a government that sits in the driver's seat on such an important issue as how to finance this for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1961	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1967	The NRK stands firmly in the Norwegian population and has the quality we want. That is why we need predictable funding. Despite, in particular, perhaps, the party's ridicule and sluggish remarks about the channel, I am pleased that the council of state in its post sees the value of the NRK in fact, and places emphasis on it. With documentary programmes, they focus on injustices, they are societally critical, and they are clear about their responsibilities. Focus is one example, Escape another, and as it has been mentioned here, Shame – a program that has done more for the Nordic understanding of languages than any other program in recent years. It's good that the NRK takes responsibility for strengthening the language, disseminating Nordic content and contributing to knowledge of Nordic society, culture and language, and I'm glad that it's back on the poster. It was historyless to take it away, because we have a common language area in the Nordic region, where it is important that we understand each other, and that can be done more easily through joint programmes. When we meet our Nordic friends and they refer from Shame and talk in their Norwegian language, we all realize that there has been a successful contribution to increased interest and understanding and perhaps more curiosity in our country. I can also mention that there are many other good series from our neighbouring countries that NRK sends, or series that we produce and send there. In this way we maintain both understanding and coherence. As a parentheses I also want dubbing not to be used, which has also been signalled from this pulpit and in notes. But the NRC must still have the economy that can cope with such measures. I think a lot of people with me are happy to have a public broadcaster where you can drop advertising, and you can choose. We're happy that we can have programs that irritate us, and programs for especially interested people. That's why, as has been said here many times, predictability is important. It's necessary. There are few who can fill the role of the NRK today, and that predictability has not contributed the government with its wretched answers and ideas. At least they do not show which way they will go when they send the matter unsolved to Stortingen and expect it to be resolved here. Here I feel that we throw the ball back and forth, and that the ball is now thrown back to Stortinget. It'll be exciting to see what the result is.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1974	We are today facing a media reality that, relatively a few years ago, was very distant from us. We are bombarded by news and headlines from all sides, on all channels and on all platforms. More and more people get their news through social media, which, as we know, have algorithms that control what kind of content we get to see, based on what we've been like and committed to in the past. Despite more sources of news than ever before, the danger of echocambers is great. We might need NRK more now than ever. We need a public broadcaster that ensures media pluralism, that can deliver quality on multiple platforms and in multiple channels, and that can hit widely on linear television, on radio, on social media and on networks. Then we also need stable funding, and we need an independent NRK. It would have been quite obvious to prefer that the government had delivered on what Stortinget asked for, so that we could now put in place a security and security for the future. Then, as the representative of Grande has been involved in earlier today, I am pleased that the consensus on the need for a good and stable funding of the NRC at least seems to be historically large. Of course, it demands legitimacy from the NRK. In order to join a spice layer of a non-commercial public broadcaster in a highly fragmented media landscape, the public broadcaster must have a legitimacy. It's NRK today. Over 80 pst. NRK content is used daily by the population, and NRK is highly trusted. 80 pst. has a very or quite good overall impression of NRK. And people have a relationship with the NRK, whether it's through news, drama productions, debate, culture or entertainment, by waiting for the next Shame Update or through children's programs, which I've been given a lot of time to get acquainted with the last year. People also have a relationship with the NRK because the NRK is where people live. District offices are essential for legitimacy. They cover local news and give space to local artists in their broadcasts. They contribute to preparedness. Local and regional presence must be essential for the NRK’s solution to the public broadcasting mission. Of course, the legitimacy and mission of the NRC is not just about reaching a broad and strong consensus, but also about creating diversity and producing content for minorities. As a representative of a state that is the home of several national minorities, not least the southern ones, I am pleased that today we are continuing and also stressing the responsibility of the NRK for Sami content.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e1987	One would think that there was a fundamental and fundamental disagreement in this room on this matter. It's not. We are, in fact, in a cross-political agreement on most things, except for the financing mechanism. I think it is exciting when we hear representatives from the Labour Party going up and saying that there has been such a bad response from the government that the Labour Party has not been able to design its own policy. It is okay that there is an idea drying at the Workers' Party for the time being, but to expect that a sitting government will help shape the policy for the Workers' Party, I think it is to go far, especially when the criticism is so tough based on a proposal that they themselves promote that also does not come to a conclusion on the model. One thing would have been if the Workers' Party had had an alternative policy that they could go to war to defend, but they haven't, and the conclusion of the Workers' Party is very much in line with what is the majority position today. You should not believe that when you heard the posts that have been made by several representatives from the Workers' Party. I have also noticed that despite the fact that the decision-making basis is not good enough for the Workers' Party, it is at least good enough for the Centre Party. Although the representative Arnstad criticised the Council of State instead of being funny at the expense of the Workers' Party, at least the Central Party has enough decision-making basis to help promote a proposal where they can at least conclude, so I think it was also a little strange reference. But what made me take the floor was the criticism that state budget funding has received. I think Grande said something like that was a serious estimate of the independence of the NRK. I agree that it is important that the NRC should be independent, that they should have a predictable framework and that they should be the institution they are to a large extent today. As Grande himself has pointed out, there is broad support for it in the setting, so if nothing else, at least the NRK has received many good words from the pulpit today, and that is well deserved. However, claiming that government budget funding should boost that independence is demanding, because both press support and money for a private public broadcaster are decided in Stortinget, but – not least – because another very important institution is funded in the same way. In fact, the NRK is part of the fourth state power, but the third state power is financed by the government budget on a proposal from the government. I don't think anyone would argue that it's rocking the independence of the courts. The fact that one is to have an established model balanced against government budget funding is actually a quite natural matter when one is first to implement such a thorough round of funding for the NRC. That is why I think it is worth pointing out that proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, really establishes a whole new constitutional practice, where the Workers' Party wants to oblige the government on the part of the Stortinge not to take its duty to inform the Stortinge in a sufficiently serious way and to remove the right of initiative, which the government has and is free to exercise as they wish. That's remarkable.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2000	It will be necessary to make some comments on what has been said. I'm amazed at the use of words and descriptions, which I find hard to see really messed up. I think the broadcaster, to which it was referred, is remarkably calm to have an enterprise in economic chaos and solid uncertainty, but it might say something about that we have a good broadcaster and a good institution. Where does Arild Grande take it from when he refers to this uncertainty, when it states in a setting that the framework has been given, which today, VAT refund must be ensured, and a four-year control signal must be given? If it's chaos, we need to get help finding another solution. At least we didn't get it from the Workers' Party. So it's this track that a person has clearly shown in the hope of getting some disunity, this because it's only NRK collection that's the salutative one. We'd like to be in charge of NRK collection, i.e. NRK collection itself, if that's the best solution and it best meets the criteria we've set. But we're going to have an answer to that, and if that's a good solution, that's good. It's a good competence environment in Mo in Rana, which we've pointed out. Then there's the Center Party, which thinks there's uncertainty when you say you've been through it all along. It is strange, and it is strange that one at the same time says that the order came in March last year and that one has not given a response of four years. I guess there's a logical flaw there. Arild Grande repeats once again, although this has been pointed out in many debates, the number of people over 18 years of age. Where he has this with 18 years from, I don't know. It has never been said in the setting, and it has never been said from us. Just who is going to contribute and how it can be done so that households get a decent financial solution through a personal solution, that is to say, it is to be taken further. When I took the initiative in these talks with all the parties, the intention was that we should stand in common with the NRK. We have reached a broad consensus – remarkablely broad consensus, I would say. There is an impression of something else. It makes me a little sad, but I'm glad that the consensus, after all, is at the bottom. I can also promise that we will push – regardless of who will follow it up – that this happens so quickly that the NRK gets the predictability they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2013	The debate shows that there is a high degree of consensus in terms of content, in terms of the desire to provide a good basis for a future NRC, and in terms of the importance of the NRK in the Norwegian media reality. That's good, and that's important. There we do not disagree, I think there are many who agree very much. So there are many of us who think that it's starting to hurry a little bit, that one actually has to get an order in place, and that's where some of us come across with pretty strong criticism both of the process that the government has carried out, and of the decision-making basis that the government has given to the Storting in the last round, which has been too bad. It was too bad, the message was too bad, and the answers to the questions asked along the way have not been very good either. It has not provided any of the clarifications that you need, for example. to enter into a settlement — a broad settlement. Therefore, there has been no settlement, and therefore one is here today and has a reasonable degree of uncertainty related to what is going to become the investigations in the future. The representative Harberg says it's a paradox that I'm talking about that there's been uncertainty over several years about the process, while I'm pointing out that it's been a year since Stortinget's settlement. But already at the time, several of us were expressing that we were a little over the insidiousness we experienced from the government in the media policy. It's based on the fact that you've had multiple messages, more expert selections, and yet you're coming back to the Stortinget with five models and are unable to point to a model that you're going to go further. In addition, I think it is a pity that representatives from the Right and the Progress Party have created uncertainties related to government budget funding, because there is no doubt that state budget funding can easily conflict with the majority of seamen, that there should be a rigorous system, a system that guarantees the legitimacy and independence of the NRK, which is predictable and which has a long-term perspective. This could easily conflict, and therefore at least this debate should have concluded that year-to-year government budget funding is not a good solution for the NRC. It should be added, and then we get to focus on the models that are possible. The centre party has pointed to someone we think one should go further. We are open to also discuss others in the future to ensure the long-term and independent funding of the NRC, but in reality, I think that one here on a responsible basis would be able to say that it is not relevant to secure the future of the NRK.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2022	To be honest, I didn't think that all parts of this debate have kept the level of what is the intention of the institution we're discussing, simply to contribute to a more enlightened conversation. I can't say that there's a basis – in the discussion, what we're doing and how much we know – on the very fronts that some people are pulling up. I thought there might be a bit of a basis for going in, both here and there. At my best understanding, it's obvious that the government hasn't done enough in the last year for us to come to terms with a main model. It's like in a country that there needs to be a government and a government council that takes the lead when we're going into complex questions to get on with it. They were expected to make a clear proposal. I had expected more support, faster answers and contributions than we got, so that the Storting could be some. I thought the government party and government had to assume that instead we're actually at zero. Some main lines are drawn, but when it comes to funding, too much is open. I can't see that there's a basis for the tone that the Center Party, the Workers' Party and my friends there – which I have so good experience working with for many years – put into this debate. There was no uncertainty about government budget funding in this debate. There isn't any multiples for it in Norway, it won't be. Everyone knows it's there because the Progress Party was going to get this – to be there. That's just the way it is. Right isn't going to go into it, the rest of us aren't going to go into it. It might be a little bit important to get it landed so we can get together on what's important. We didn't get any in the end, and the representative Arild Grande said up here that it was because the plurality was in favour of an irresponsible and too bad model that can't be implemented, that one should listen to the minority either. I've been in a minority a lot of times in my life. It's happened to me that the minority is right, and that the majority should connect. But it is more common for the minority to give in to the majority than for the majority to give in to the minority – fortunately and in spite of everything. So at least a little reflection -- it might have been a good idea for the minority to think about whether the majority had any points. Had it happened at an earlier time, I actually think it would have been the basis to come further into the Storting. But the most important point is that this dishwashing helps nothing. What helps is that we get a government council and a government that leads to a greater degree than it has happened to now, and that the Storting feels responsible for a broad consensus about finding a good model, of many, and pick out the best – and give some. After all, it's not heaven or hell, but it's about finding a good collective solution for the NRK.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2033	The representative of Arild Grande has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2038	I accept the invitation from Bård Vegar Solhjell, and I am glad that this matter will be handled in the next period, because then it might look a little different – who is in majority and who is in minority. At least I feel convinced that if we get the opportunity after the elections, we will see a Minister of Culture who has a completely different pace in this matter and who also helps to land a future financing model without too much mess in the Stortinget. I agree that proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, is unusual, but there is a lot that is unusual in this case. Had the Minister of Culture stated that it would not be appropriate to walk along that track, we would have been the first to draw the proposal. But here it has been repeated that one should pursue that trail, so we see that we need to maintain the proposal. We agree on very much in terms of content, but we disagree on a part in terms of funding. Unfortunately, the debate has not clarified some important questions for us. That's why we don't think it's right to be in the majority position.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2047	When there is confusion about the way forward, what is actually adopted here today, I do not share that assessment. I think it's very simple, and I'm very pleased with what the Storting is going to adopt today. What the government is now asking for – the good and large majority who are fortunately behind the proposals – is to present a final choice of a model for what is to be called the NRK contribution. The parties and the majority are clear as to what priorities should be given, and they provide some clear guidance for further work and for what we are going to do. The big deal is that the government is going to come back with a proposal for a strange scheme that is not entirely based on a scheme that already exists in other countries, because you can see that they are not good enough to adapt to the Norwegian system. That's why we want to pick up a lot of the best from the models that you have in other countries, and that the good majority also points to. The majority also ask for a model where all adults with income pay. That's because many of the parties are concerned with the social part of this, that if you earn relatively little, you shouldn't have to pay as much as one who has very good pay. In order for legitimacy to be preserved, we must ensure that everyone can contribute according to his ability. I think that is important for the NRK funding and for the model on which we land. At the same time, the majority points to a number of prerequisites that must be met: low administrative costs, low bureaucracy and independence for the NRC as it is very central. I'm glad. All of this is now to be included. It is demanding to take all these considerations into account, but now the majority have given clear signals as to what the government is going to do. I promise that we will work as quickly as it is reasonable and at all possible, and come back to Stortinget with a proposal that takes care of the clear leadership that is used in the decision made today – which is impossible to misunderstand, and which I am very pleased that is so clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2058	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2074	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2084	There is broad consensus in the Stortinget and in the Committee on the amendments to the Broadcasting Act on Advertising and Sponsoring. I expect that the Christian People's Party itself will explain what is the big difference, or the small difference, which I believe it is in this matter. Digitalisation leads to a new everyday life in the media industry. The consequence of this is, among other things: increased international competition in the Norwegian market. The advertising and sponsorship markets have changed in line with technological developments in this area and it is necessary to adapt the Norwegian legislation as a result of these developments. The so-called AMT Directive has been implemented in Norwegian law by the Broadcasting Act and the Broadcasting Regulation. There are two main principles in the AMT Directive. The first is the country-by-country principle, which implies that the legislation of the country in which the consignments take place is to be taken into account as regards advertising and sponsorship, as long as it is within the EU-determined framework. The second is the principle of free circulation. In practice, this means that what appears to be Norwegian television channels can be sent to Norway with other countries’ legislation as the basis for advertising. Several Norwegian channels are already known to use this. The Right Party and the Advance Party consider it important to stress that any broadcaster has the opportunity to send advertising in line with what is currently in line with the law. Provided that the broadcaster operates within the legal limit of advertising viewing, the broadcaster must decide for himself how much advertising it wants to send. Thus, the proportion of advertising time in the law is a commercial assessment for each broadcaster. And I'm sure everyone understands that sending too much advertising makes the channel so boring that fewer people will look at it. A bad business idea, at my discretion. If the law on advertising and sponsorship becomes too different between the countries covered by the principle of free circulation, it would distort competition, which the Committee considers to be unfortunate. I believe it is necessary to facilitate better that Norwegian broadcasters have a level playing field similar to that of the rest of the EEA. I.e.: Facilitation is important with this AMT Directive. This is also an important contribution to ensuring the quality of Norwegian diversity. So a little obs: I mean advertising and sponsorship also have several negative aspects for viewers, and it is important that these do not spoil the good viewer experience too much for Norwegian viewers in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2102	I have understood that what the government is now presenting in the amendments to the broadcasting law is about harmonising the EU's AMT directive, and that is not all the government is presenting, the Christian People's Party disagrees. What's important to us is that you don't make changes that make you, for example. facilitates more advertising for games that are illegal in Norway, but ensures that they are kept within what is Norwegian law. I believe, based on the debate we had in connection with the game announcement, that the government could have done more to stop the illegal advertising of games sent from abroad. It's not small money we're talking about, we're talking about 600 million. the amount spent on this illegal advertising of games. I believe that the government could have followed the recommendations of the Hamar Committee, and would like the government to be able to use in full the space for action you have. What we're sceptical about is advertising on a shared screen. The Christian People’s Party believes that commercial advertising is big enough as it is. Then I agree with the representative Ib Thomsen that this is also about the viewing experience. What we are proposing in the case of §3-2 is that instead of giving full access to a shared screen in a way at any time, advertising on a shared screen should be allowed only in direct broadcasts that do not contain interruptions, e.g. Sports events – that you do not suddenly start to see the advertisement in the middle of the interview by the staff, for example. I hope the other parties can also be involved in evaluating this proposal. It is a distributed proposal in the Chamber today. It's the same wording that's in the setting, just that we're not asking the government more precisely, but that the Storting will clarify it itself, and I hope that by opening up, we'll hit it anyway, to avoid that the advertising pressure just gets even more increasing, and also taking care of the viewer's experiences. So you can do this in live broadcasts that don't contain interrupts. I don't know if the government parties have at all assessed this proposal, but I had hoped that we could manage to get a majority for this. I address the proposal that the Christian People's Party has promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2113	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2118	The centre party records that there is an overall committee that presents the position on this matter, and politically we see no major controversy about the proposed changes. We will therefore support the attitude of the Committee. However, on behalf of the party, I would like to make some comments on the matter, as we are not part of the committee. As we have seen in other issues: with regard to the financial framework of the Norwegian media landscape, it is a challenging situation. Increased competition from foreign channels combined with electricity services is demanding and the Central Party therefore sees the need to meet the needs of Norwegian broadcasters for a level playing field vis-à-vis broadcasters broadcasting from other EEA countries. At the same time, this maritime balance must be balanced against the interests of viewers in limiting the exposure of advertising. With regard to the proposal to abolish the restriction on total advertising spots not exceeding 15 pst. of the broadcaster's daily transmission time, the Central Party considers that this will not imply any major practical changes. Both the law and the AMT Directive will continue to limit the number of minutes of advertising per hour. The advertising pressure per clock hour at that time will not increase much beyond the current rule. Moreover, we have noticed that broadcasters already seem to have adapted to today's legislation by expanding the transmission time, thereby maximising the 15 pst rule. I would assume that broadcasters have already maximised their use in prime hours, and that repealing the 15 pst rule will therefore have the greatest impact on advertising in the short hours. However, the centre party will join the Workers' Party and the General Commentary of the Christian People's Party in the statement that the overall advertising pressure should not be increased. The centre party also joins the repeal of § 3-4 and believes that there is a wise cleaning up of the legislation, and we will also signal support for the minority proposal that the representative Bekkevold just addressed, about a change in § 3-2 so that advertising on a shared screen should only be allowed in direct broadcasts that do not contain interruptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2131	There is agreement on much in this matter. It is a matter of facilitating that Norwegian broadcasters broadcasting on the basis of Norwegian legislation should not suffer significant competitive disadvantages compared to broadcasters which have broadcasts directed to the Norwegian public but which send from other countries with a completely different regulatory framework. It has been established by the Storting for many years and has made adjustments that can improve competition for Norwegian broadcasters broadcasting from Norway. We agree that regulatory adjustments are being made, and there is a broad consensus on this. Then there's another track that's about the competitive situation in which Norwegian broadcasters live in the middle of it. It is that there are many people who have broadcasts to the Norwegian public, who send with a completely different regime, who send advertisements for games that are illegal in Norway and who are involved and contribute to increased gambling dependence and the danger that the Norwegian game model and the Norwegian sport model will be under considerable pressure in the future. That is why we have written in our remarks that there should be a much heavier pressure on the part of the Norwegian authorities to prevent the advertising of illegal games. There are many reasons for this, and I have been involved in some of them. I believe that the Council of State has been too passive in terms of the possibility that exists within the AMT Directive to either have agreements to stop such advertising or to assess a blocking or to assess circumvention procedures for, for example. gossip. We are calling for a state council that stands up for Norwegian sport and for those who depend on it, and that has a considerable pressure on the work to prevent advertising of illegal games, and we mention that in our remarks. Another thing is the fact that the Norwegian Football Association has committed what I believe is a cardinal error by selling Norwegian football rights to players who are involved and helping the Norwegian people to be exposed to advertising of illegal games and at the same time competing Norwegian players. I believe that this is a significant weakness with the agreements that have now been concluded. I've even looked at some of those channels. In an advertising break alone, there were five advertisements for illegal games plus – sparingly enough – an advertisement for consumer loans that you could get during the day. That combination is married to the gambling addicts, and it is married to Norwegian football and Norwegian sports if this development is allowed to take place. Today, the advertising market for illegal gambling is about 600 million. kr per year. It is the fastest growing market in Norway at present. That evolution tells itself that cannot continue. I believe that, in addition to the fact that the Minister of Culture should put a much heavier pressure on that matter, it is also the responsibility of the leaders of the sports organisations not to mention the branch on which they are sitting, by concluding agreements that undermine the Norwegian model of gambling, the Norwegian model of exclusive rights, and that can in the long term threaten the means of volunteering, sport, fires. With this I would also like to signal that the Workers' Party supports the proposal of the Christian People's Party which Mr Jørgen Bekkewold made clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2144	I would first encourage us to do something about the system – I should only have a brief comment, but I have got five minutes. I have to be healthy, so you don't have to be impatient. I would like to make a few comments on Mr Bekkevold's proposal. – Now I see that the minister has also signed up, so we might get some clarification. But I'm pointing out that the proposition says that you think ‘this is going to apply especially during so-called prime hours and in broadcasts from big events’, so that's to a large extent already mentioned in the proposition. It's sometimes actually also an advantage with a shared screen, because it could make the advertisement less disruptive, just as the representative Beckewold was in. If you lie and wait for the last shooting in skiing, nothing is more annoying than going to advertising. I would also like to show that there is no mention that there will be any more advertising in that sense. The maximum limit of 20 pst. will in any case remain firm. Then I just want to make a short, short comment that we're making promises because you need protection. I don't think the protection against shared screens is one of the most important things we need to spend a lot of time on. I also believe that the editors of the different TV and radio channels are able to assess for themselves – when they see viewers or listeners disappear because they have too much advertising, I think they may limit themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2155	The President will inform the representative Eidem Løvaas and everyone else in the Chamber that it is maximum speaking time, up to 5 minutes, and you can choose to use 1 minute – or 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2160	At a time of increased competition from global players, it is important for media pluralism that authorities facilitate the competitiveness of Norwegian broadcasters. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee has joined the government's proposal to adorn the rules of the Broadcasting Act. The government wants to help Norwegian broadcasters get the same good framework conditions as their competitors. Therefore, the proposal contains amendments to the Broadcasting Act whereby Norwegian advertising and sponsorship rules are widely harmonised with the minimum rules of the AMT Directive and implies that Norwegian rules in this area will be equivalent to those to which competitors are subject. It was just supposed to be missing for us who are concerned about strengthening the Norwegian media diversity. The proposal, on the other hand, will not allow to increase the amount of advertising, since the rule of no more than 20 pst. advertising per clock hour is fixed. I think it's also important to underline that. Advertising on a split-screen in long-term broadcasts from large events without natural breaks is an example of when ad on a split-screen would turn on and off. Such practices are also likely to be less disruptive than regular interruptions. Therefore, I would just like to comment briefly on the proposal of the Christian People's Party. The proposal concerns the sending of advertising during live broadcasts from long-term sporting events that do not have natural breaks, without interrupting the programme. That is what the proposal we are making deals with. The proposal has been out for consultation, and in the proposition we have stated that the law on advertising on a shared screen will enter into force in the second half of 2017. That is, we're adding that it's going to come into force from 1 July. Therefore, I believe that the reason many parties have not responded to the proposal of the Christian People's Party is that it will come into force from 1 July, and Norwegian broadcasters have laid their hands on the amendment of the law. For example, TV 2 is based on the fact that the changes are in place in time, before the broadcasts from the Tour de France start this summer. That's why we say that the government in the regulation will take care of and clarify the considerations we've set up, as we also said in the hearing, and for which the broadcasters are also preparing. Until the regulatory changes have entered into force, this in practice means that there will be no such complementary rules, including: on the labelling of distributed advertising. I assume that Norwegian broadcasters will act responsibly and in line with the intentions behind the rules, although it is now in place in the law and we say that we will clarify this in the regulation. If we had further postponed this, the new legislation would not have had an impact on the broadcasters from the summer to the autumn. I would like to end by saying that the rules that we now have in place require advertising interruptions to be placed so that the value and the integrity of the program are not impaired. As mentioned, it is also in the broadcaster's own interest not to stumble viewers, and therefore I think they are very careful to increase the advertising rate. I do not share the fear that access to advertising on a shared screen will lead to widespread use in applications where such advertising would be disruptive. Nevertheless, I think it is important to have a clear marking of advertising on a shared screen, so the viewer should not be in doubt that there is advertising to which they are exposed. That is also why we want to lay down detailed rules on the labelling of such advertising in a separate regulation, so that there should be no doubt – even for the viewer – about what you are entitled to be informed about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2177	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2183	I think the Minister of Culture is overdramatizing when she talks about the proposal of the Christian People's Party, which also several other parties join. Whether the proposal of the government or the proposal of the Christian People's Party is adopted, it is adopted today. The Minister for Culture has many brilliant staff who are very well able to adapt proposals to the regulations, so that they can be implemented as quickly as possible. So there can't be any reason to be worried about. What I wanted to ask the Minister of Culture about, however, was the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party write about in the comments on illegal gambling and advertising for it. Here, from Stortinget's side, we've been pressing on throughout the entire period to try and get the government to take some initiatives, but the government has seemed completely paralysed. Is there anything new from the government when it comes to trying to prevent access to advertising of illegal games, or do we have to expect that this development will only continue in the future, and that the government will be holding its hands?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2190	I need to reassure the representative of Grande that this is constantly working. We have a great deal of attention to work to stop television advertising for foreign gaming companies and cross-border gambling advertising on TV. It is our top priority in contact with the EU Commission, not least in the work on the AMT Directive. The AMT Directive, as the representative knows, is under review. The new directive is likely to be adopted in the course of the year, and it is expected that we will amend the new directive to clarify the scope for national action to block illegal advertising of gambling. We are committed to doing what we can to prevent illegal advertising of gambling, and I have good faith that we will come up with a very good solution, as the government and the Ministry of Culture have had a very close dialogue with ESA and the Commission on that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2197	This is nothing but a diversion. The same talk we've heard throughout the entire period, that we have to investigate what space of action exists. But we know quite a bit about which room of action exists. There are a large number of EU countries that have blocking IP addresses, we have a number of examples of countries that are very well able to deal with this in terms of their own desire to protect citizens from advertising, and to get legislation that harmonises with the AMT Directive. So sitting and waiting for that process I see no reason to. We have made a number of proposals in Stortinget in the past, in the context of the game announcement, which are both about developing the regulatory framework we are dealing with, and about listening to the recordings from the Lottery Authority where they have asked for new tools. But there we were voted down by the Right and the Advance Party in Stortinget. Why does the Minister of Culture not use the means available to her, but rather just sits and waits for the EU and processes internationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2204	I am quite surprised at the harsh words that the Workers' Party has now resorted to. Claiming that the government is operating with diversions in the context of the revision and work on the new AMT Directive, I do, in fact, think, are quite serious accusations. We are investigating whether television advertising for gambling falls outside the scope of the AMT Directive, and the reason why it takes some time – and perhaps not as simple as the Workers' Party wants – is that the legal status is unclear. We believe that the Norwegian authorities have a room for action, but here we are in dialogue with ESA, and we must actually have it clearly on the ground. Then it is not possible to resort to easy solutions. We need to know that we have a solid basis to base the solutions we decide on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2211	I listened to the Minister of Culture's comments, and I understand in the way things were said, that the proposal that the Christian People's Party has promoted in this matter is very much about the same thoughts that have been made in the ministry. However, if the TV companies themselves are going to figure this out and frame this, I am still not sure that we are going to get a guarantee that it is only in live broadcasts that we will experience a split screen. That's why it's been important for us to make it clear from the Storting. I can't see that there's going to be any drama in this proposal, all the time the Minister of Culture kind of – has done the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2217	The government has not been able to make the regulations, because we have had to wait for the decision of the Stortinget today, so we are very happy that we are getting support for our proposal, and that we can get started working on a regulation. We have also been very clear in the hearing on what this implies, and I am sure that the broadcasters have also prepared for it. And I'm sure that the Christian People's Party's intention here is exactly the same as the government's intention, and that we therefore fully agree on the goal. I don't think there's any disagreement about what you want to do here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2222	If you have been waiting for a decision in Stortinget to start working on such a regulation, so far as the Christian People's Party has done the job. That is why we are promoting this. Then I can only understand that the Minister of Culture might at least ask his own party, Right, to vote in favour of this proposal, all the time he has in mind to promote something similar himself.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2227	At least it's important from the Ministry of Culture to clarify this in the regulations. Now, hopefully, we will have a decision in Stortinget today that supports what is meant by this, that this concerns long-term shipments of e.g. sports events where there are no natural breaks, and that is why you can have a mix of arrangements, as we propose. That's no matter what we want to work on in the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2232	Today, the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of its own proposal and has a real wish to vote against the government's proposal for §3-2. So I need a guarantee that the regulation that the government will produce will follow these lines, will contain the restriction that the Christian People's Party now has in its proposal. Can the Minister of Culture give that guarantee, so that we can – of course – vote in favour of our proposal, but then, if necessary, subsidiaryly support what is in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2238	Yes, I feel that this is what we agree on, that the intention is the same, and that the Christian People's Party can therefore do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2243	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 6-8 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2285	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2294	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation in matters that we are now going to discuss. We have not agreed on everything, and in the meantime I want to address the majority's position. We are also discussing two representative proposals in this debate, and the Committee has chosen to debate them together. I would like to thank the proposers for their good proposals. I am proud to join in the launch of a reform in such an important area as this. Children and families who need help deserve the best and most competent we can offer. This reform is built around four main themes: early intervention, family support and assistance where the child lives, skills and management. The goal is to provide more vulnerable children and families with the help they need at a time earlier than today. The child protection reform gives more power to the municipality. Children and families all live in a municipality, and it is the municipality's employees who see the children from they are infants – yes, really before they are born – at the health centre, in kindergarten, at school, at the SFO, to mention some contact points. Many children and families who need help say the same thing: it is important that help comes early. The latest in the case of a glass girl, Ida says that she should have another place to stay and other adults to take care of herself earlier. We came too late – and when we took action, it was the wrong help. At the same time, not all measures can be transferred to one and a municipality. Some are too specialised and need larger disciplines. An example of this is the assessment of infants and the recruitment of foster homes — which remain state-owned, at least for so long. The reform is based, as I have said, on four main pillars. Early effort and its strengthening: The aim is to strengthen local, interdisciplinary work, which will also enable the municipality to see the whole. The provision of training in talking with children shall be further developed to adapt national programmes to different occupational groups. This is important, because being able to talk to children, build trust and make children tell is an important competence to detect abuse, abuse or other experiences. Centres for parents and children are proposed by law. New Child Protection Act will clarify the local authority's responsibility for the prevention and coordination of services, because, unfortunately, where the municipality sees children and families in several places, it is also reported that non-cooperation between services means that those in need of assistance are still not seen. The reform also focuses on family support measures and help where the child lives. Provision is made to enable the municipality to use different family-supporting preventive measures, such as the ICDP and the Nurse-Family Partnership. Furthermore, the municipality is now obliged to assess networks and close families when children need a foster home. Many municipalities are already doing this today, but through this reform everyone is obliged to do so. One of the proposals that have received tough feedback from some hearing bodies, in particular from the Children’s Protection Professionals, is the proposal that the State should continue to be responsible for some of the specialised relief measures. The Committee has understood the feedback so that today’s programmes are the challenge. They suggest, according to the hearing bodies, to look at behavior and not why children do what they do. They have not been evaluated by children, and sometimes, even according to the hearing bodies, they make worse. The Committee has been clear in its comments and in its proposal that these programmes be evaluated and that children and young people be included in the evaluation. The last two themes are competence and management. We need to identify the need and present a separate competence strategy that will apply from 2018 to 2024. In addition, it is important that municipal politicians follow up on their own child protection, and in order to do so they need to have knowledge. The Committee agrees that annual reports on the protection of children of local government should be carried out. Municipal learning networks and environments shall be established in order to provide better professional support, and studies shall become more knowledge-based and practical. This reform is great, and I'm not getting all the details about it at the time I've been given. But I want to take the time to thank all those who work with children who have a hard time, all those who open their homes for an extra child or more, all those who daily dare to tell about child protection – and all the children and young people, who are professional in their lives and deserve a new chance for a better childhood. This reform is for you and for you – and it is a reform that we hope will make it even a little safer to be a child and young in Norway. I look forward to the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2332	Thank you to the rapporteur for the job, and thank you to the rapporteurs for two representative proposals. The government has for a long time announced that there would be a child protection reform. Then comes this, as they call child-reform, but as the Workers' Party cannot see it containing more than a task transfer to the municipalities, with money in the framework of the municipalities to implement. For us, it looks more like a delivery from the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality to the Ministry of Local Government Reform. What is outlined fits well for the large municipalities, which many of the large municipalities have agreed and want, but we believe that a good child protection should also be available in small and large municipalities. We don't think we can do that with this model. An overall review was announced, but the review that is now given is fragmented, and it is difficult to see the consequences of it. We believe that this is not good enough and will therefore vote against the entire proposition and the heading. We have promoted this as a solution, and are drawing proposal No. 5, because of a formal error. Child protection reform should contribute to increased quality, competence and clear responsibility, and we should have had time to wait for the rest. Several hearing bodies have also expressed the same view. The Workers' Party does not oppose the provision of additional tasks to municipalities, but this should be done as a whole and should be fully funded. We also believe that municipalities need more jobs to be able to offer even better opportunities to the young people who need it. That is why we earmarked money in the Child Protection Lift, and almost 1000 jobs were created. We have continued to propose this, while the government has chosen to pay only for the posts already created, and no new ones have arrived. It is good that more emphasis is placed on competence. It deserves both the kids and the employees. But once again, this is careful and long-term. There has been a continuous increase in competence for several years, and I expect that it will continue, regardless of whether the government has announced a lift in competence or not. The Workers' Party believes that municipalities should not be given the responsibility for general guidance now. Good competence has already been built into guidance for foster homes, and as long as first line jobs are lacking, it is difficult to see whether this can be done without destroying the offer that needs to be made. The municipalities also have different conditions for success, and about half of the hearing replies are negative to receive the general guidance, and it is believed that the municipalities do not have the necessary skills. That's why we want to go against this now. It is positive that municipalities should be able to influence the institutional locations to be used. However, it is not positive that it is proposed to introduce full price differentiation in institutional locations. This means that the costs of a municipality can increase from today's price of around 70 000 kroner to up to 300000 kroner a month, and a price competition will be even more ongoing than today. Increased price competition will increase the pressure on wage and pension costs and working hours. When prize wins, we will eventually be able to have a market that controls. The working party is engaged in the first use of the public offer and in the subsequent use of the ideal non-commercial offer. Diversity is important, but with the risk of increased competition, municipalities will clearly have to choose the cheapest, and perhaps not the best for the child. We therefore propose that today's system be maintained, in other words, a partial price differentiation. Today's municipal economy does not mean that it will be easy to achieve full price differentiation. Child protection workers do a great job, but they get a lot of complaints. The most daunting thing is that other adult people in society threaten them or the family, so that in worst cases they have to go to cover. Many are also unable to stand in a job where threats and unacquainted words are a regular day at work. Child protection workers do this difficult job on behalf of all of us, to ensure that children are brought up and cared for. Then there may be misappropriations and people may get angry or tired, but it has to be taken in the right direction. It is therefore important that the government now looks at whether there are measures that can be taken to prevent this from happening. I'm glad that there's a unanimous committee that stands behind and tries to do something about this. It is also good that the case of measures aimed at pregnant drug addicts is followed up by the government and is now being implemented. I refer to the proposals we have put forward in the matter, also to resolve the proposal as a substitute for proposal No. 5, and come back to an explanation of vote later.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2362	The representative, Mr Mandt, has taken up the proposal No. 1 to 4 and 6 to 9 from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2367	The child protection reform is about giving our most vulnerable children better help, on their own premises and in a timely manner. This is something the Progress Party has been working for for for many years. For the Advancement Party, it is important that we have a child protection that sees the best of the child when everyday life becomes demanding and challenging in a vulnerable phase of life, and that we pursue a policy that puts the child ahead of the system. Child protection has contact with more than 50,000 children and young people every year. Unfortunately, not everyone gets the same help. Help is often too late, and it is too poorly coordinated. We also see cases where child-restraint workers in the meeting with families with children do not have the skills to cope with the complex needs of families. Child protection concerns us all, whether you've been in contact with them yourself, or you know or know someone in the community who's been. Those who work in child protection meet the most precious thing we have on a daily basis, namely our children. Our responsibility is to take these children seriously. We have to make sure that the focus is on the children and that they receive the assistance they need, without necessarily having to be separated from their parents. That is what this reform is all about. Because the aim of the child protection reform is that we should prevent more, we in fact legislate that child protection should now examine both the possibility of greater use of family and networks and demonstrate that they have actually done so. We strengthen the competence of child protection, increase cooperation between services in municipalities and ensure that municipalities are given more responsibility and greater freedom of choice. This is something the Progress Party has wanted for a long time, which will mean a lot to a large group of people. I read a Facebook post last night from a desperate grandmother, who feels that child protection in Bjugn is now going to move her child of 4.5 years to a foreign foster home instead of letting her stay with her grandparents. I don't know the details of this case, but if it's the case that child protection has not adequately assessed the girl's two grandparents as foster homes, I think it's sad – especially for the little girl, but also for a whole family to be separated from a little child they're happy with, and who's happy with them. This Facebook status is less than two days divided almost 5,000 times, which says a little bit about it hitting a nerve among people who are concerned with the best of the children. It may be a poor comfort to these grandparents, but child protection is thus legally required to consider them as caregivers – for the benefit of the children. The ambition of the reform is to ensure that as many children as possible have a good childhood and that the number of takeovers should decrease. Indeed, parents are the most important caregivers in children’s lives. When parents do not reach out, we need early action to strengthen care and to provide rapid help to children who need it. Early efforts and parental support measures can prevent children from leaving the family. Getting good help early can be essential to avoid taking care of yourself. It's for the best for the child, the family and the community. I am proud that today we are adopting a reform that will strengthen the work of children in the field of child protection and that looks at the work and efforts of child protection in a comprehensive perspective, and that this will also be reflected in several of the reforms that the government is working on. Because we all remember the ‘Ida’ case, the case where the system failed in many terms and the ‘Ida’ did not get the help she was entitled to. What we're going to do here today is make sure the system gets better, so we can avoid more stories like hers. I must therefore say that I am sorry when I register that the representatives of the Workers' Party want to postpone the reform. We have no time to lose. Therefore, I am disappointed that the Workers' Party is choosing to push out timely measures to improve the conditions around children and families in a vulnerable phase. Indeed, the reality of their proposals is that good measures are being postponed for many years. I did not make choices to push important decisions in time. I made choices to implement measures to improve everyday life for most people. I am therefore proud that this is exactly what we are going to do here today, by adopting a reform for the benefit of the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2395	Christian People's Party is often called a family party, and is also a party that is always concerned with the best of children. In most cases, we believe that parents, who are best acquainted with their child, are also best placed to make good decisions regarding the child’s growing-up conditions and quality of life. But then we know that many families also have challenges. Sometimes it's about adults who can't cooperate and communicate with each other. And in some families, adults have so many problems that they have serious consequences for their children. Then it is absolutely essential that we have a competent and effective child protection system that can provide the necessary help for the children and families. Of course, if it is the parents who pose the threat to the children, consideration for the children must come first and before taking into account the preferences of the parents. Just because child protection often meets children who have not been heard, respected and cared for by their own families, it is so incredibly important that the children experience being taken seriously by the adults they meet in the field of child protection. Child protection reform should have this as an overall focus. It is important and good that the government wants to transfer responsibility to the municipalities, which, through their proximity to the community and its inhabitants, often have better conditions for taking proper action in individual cases. For the Christian People's Party, it is absolutely essential that the transfer of responsibility is not an end in itself, but that you always have the best of the child as a leader in this work. That's why it's important for us to listen when the Children's Protection Professionals, among other things. expressed concern about the programmes currently being used and referred to in the legislative proposal as ‘specialised domestic relief measures’. The consultation pointed out that these programmes are one-sided behaviour-oriented and thus do not take into account the experiences and experiences of children or young people, which may often be the cause of behavioural disorders. When we also know that these are expensive programs, and where the result is discussed, I think it is quite strange that these programmes are being raised in the preparatory work for the bill. I am pleased that the Committee is united in its support of the proposal to review these programmes, and it is particularly important that children and young people are given a significant role in this evaluation. I would like to add that of course it is essential that children and young people who have actually been through these programmes are also allowed to express themselves, and that these voices must be included, as there has been such strong criticism of these programmes. Then we are also concerned that the municipalities should get more tasks, it must also follow the economy. I don't believe we're going to get the big promises if we don't also say at the same time that this is to be fully financed. Then I am afraid that we will not get the promise within the child protection that everyone is talking about. That is why the Christian People's Party supports the Workers' Party's proposal that this reform be fully financed. Otherwise, I have little faith that we will achieve what we want. But we do not support the Workers' Party's proposal to draw the case, because there are several things here that I think it is right to start working quickly. I would also like to remind you that there are hearing bodies who have warned against withdrawing the case or returning the case to the department, so we are not there. But we believe that this must be fully financed by the government, and I hope that the Council of State has got the answer from its head of government that this is exactly what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2412	The history of "Glassjenta" has in recent years seen child protection on the political agenda. History of the girl, who, under the protection of the child, experienced massive coercion, displacement and failure from both the auxiliaries and the supervisory authorities, upset everyone. The government promised this would lead to system changes. No children would experience the same thing she did. There were so many expectations for the government's child protection reform. Message is for processing in Stortinget today. Unfortunately, the government has ruined itself. In the eagerness to provide several private child protection providers and to introduce more market thinking, good intentions about the child’s best, increased local responsibility and competence were not followed up. In the government platform, the government has determined that the production of welfare services does not differ from the production of other goods and services. Child protection not escaped. Increased price competition and more use of economic incentives are proposed by the government to ensure the stability of children in ancillary services and a best professional offer with early efforts. Municipalities are now to be fully liable for the payment of foster homes. Local authorities should be given a higher level of ownership through the use of institutions and pay a certain percentage of the actual expenditure of the institution's premises. This is called full price differentiation. One would think there was a message about the trade industry we're talking about today, not about child protection! The government will also introduce municipal freedom of choice. This means that, in the light of the system of full price differentiation, municipalities should be able to choose freely from the institutions which the State provides to the child. As the government believes, municipalities should be forced to give priority to prevention measures, and institutions should compete harder for children on a price-based basis. By giving municipalities full responsibility for the payment of foster homes, full price differentiation at institutional and municipal elections, the focus is on the purchase and sale of childcare services for children. The central party fears that economics and costs will be the governing principle and not the professional. The government believes that economic consequences for municipalities should push forward the correct child-care decisions at an early stage. Municipalities should be encouraged to take preventive measures, but should lose sight of the need to seek specialised help. Will this economic and market focus on child protection provide safety for children and secure them as they need help? Of course not. Child protection must be financed as necessary, and the necessary professional measures for children must not be overrun by market-adapted financial instruments. Giving more space to supply, competition and economic incentives in child protection, as the government will, is the last thing that child protection needs. The only data such a system provides are those that want more private commercial actors in the field. That these are going to take profit, is also all right for the government. It shouldn't be. It should be quite central that public tax money that goes to child protection must be used for precisely this and not for the benefit of private providers. The centre party is more responsible for child protection in order to leave the municipalities, but such a comprehensive transfer of tasks to the municipalities must take place in stages and must be fully financed, and the money must be earmarked for an escalation phase. The central party therefore asks the government to withdraw the whole reform, return to the Stortinget with a holistic and step-by-step fully funded child protection reform. Such a reform must be based on a principle of subsidiarity, which gives children the legal right to be offered in the vicinity of their home, in so far as it is best for the child, and rules on how many times a child can actually be moved between different child protection measures. Family and networks must always be evaluated by taking care of children, and child protection must ensure access to basic health services in both primary and specialist services, such as other children. A lot of people think that "Glassjetta" experienced system failure in child protection. I think she experienced system fraud – child protection fraud, health services, the police and the supervisory authorities. To change this, a completely different child protection reform from that provided by the government is needed. The government should start by breaking down the productivity focus and market thinking in child protection. Providing the safety of children is a very poor starting point if the goal is the best for the child. In this case, the central party is going to produce an own common alternative that we're voting for. We will vote against all the proposals in the vote and other proposals in the Chamber. We will also vote against the proposals for decisions and the laws in general. From document 8:38, our proposal for a representative, we propose three of them. They're distributed. So I take up the suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2437	Then the representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up proposal No. 10 to Case No. 6 and proposals Nos. 1-3 to case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2442	I would like to start by saying that in isolation there are quite a lot of good things in the reform. It's nice to promote enhanced mental health care for vulnerable young people, it's great to talk about a career, it's good for those who are close to it to use their professional skills, it's positive with more municipal responsibility and that those who are close to the situation should also be able to make professional judgements, based on the knowledge they have. However – and it is a great but – to transfer tasks without funds to a municipal reality that is under pressure of resources, while at the same time arguing that it should contribute to prevention is illusory, naive and misguided. It is also especially on the one hand to stop the child protection promise that the red-green government was doing well to just close the gap between unresolved tasks and people doing the job in municipal child protection, and on the other hand talk about quality and strengthening. I also notice that the majority of the comments state that child protection has a reputational problem, that it is this challenge that needs to be solved. I want to say that you have a manning challenge, and that it should be a job that you got into. It's because vulnerable kids need safe and accessible adults, people who have time for you when you're in a difficult situation, who can follow you through your case, and be there when needed. It can be child protection when you get to be the child's friends you want when you take that education and apply to that industry. Although it's nice with competence packages, colleagues would have been fine, so you actually got to eat food packages. People in a tough everyday life are much longer if you have a working day where you can do your job and go home from work with certainty that you have used your professionalism, and where your conscience is not always hanging in a thin thread while the piles just get bigger. And because it's a fragmented image in a rather strange order that we've been presented, rather than the solid child protection reform that we needed, SV supports the proposal of the Workers' Party and, like the Workers' Party and the Centre, will vote against the law in its entirety. Then there are many good intentions in the proposal of the Central Party that are being promoted today. SV will still vote against them, because they are set up in a way that means that we can't choose how we want to vote for or against, and the whole package we can't stand for. Then I will give my full support to the Christian People's Party's pointing, that moving tasks is not an end in itself, and that a reform must be fully funded. Without accompanying funds, what is good will not be achieved, and without accompanying money, it will not be noticeable for the everyday life of child protection, and for those who need a strengthening. I would also like to refer to proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, a little attention. A review of the tender legislation is sought and guidelines on control and quality are laid down, as well as restrictions on withdrawals for private individuals. SV is going to support it, like the other proposals from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, even if we think it's not going far enough. We have promoted our own proposal, which we come back to, but we believe it is right to support it under initiatives that are going in the right direction on this issue, because we have a situation where it is revealed that the cash flows are out of control, and where we see that funds that should have gone to vulnerable kids end up at child protection barons. Then we have to gather around what we can, to make sure that money reaches the kids, and that care is not the store.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2456	Would the representative like to take up the proposal from SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2461	No, I want to draw it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2466	It shall be drawn. Okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2471	Children need and have the right to good care. When parents and their networks do not do the care task adequately, society has to move forward. Children do not choose their parents. They do not choose their growth either. Therefore, it is the responsibility of society to safeguard their rights and growing-up conditions when the need arises, so that children do not fall outside. Child protection is important for the rights of children and to ensure equal opportunities for all. It is important because it is a wise investment that saves us for significant expenses later. For a former child-restraint social liberal politician, all of this makes child-restraint a core task. The left believes that we have child protection with major challenges in terms of both resources and interaction. We want less state bureaucracy and much stronger municipal child protection with enough resources and skills. Through the municipal reform, the cooperation parties have agreed to strengthen municipal child protection, and the child protection reform further strengthens the responsibilities of the municipalities. It is a prerequisite for the reform to be fully financed, as I also read in the setting that the government parties are behind. It is also wise to be careful where there have been strong professional feedback. On this basis, the Left votes for minority proposals No. One, two, three. At the same time, we are also promoting our own proposal as an adjusted alternative to proposal No. 4, which also addresses the problems of the fixed-term contracts in the tendering system, which should be highlighted in particular. One of the main challenges for child protection today is the need for more competence, at first-line level in child protection services, but also at school, in child protection education and in research in the field. The left will promote child protection competence throughout the care chain, from kindergarten, health centre and to high school. Those working in the field of child protection have a high responsibility and therefore both pay and competence need to be increased in terms of work tasks. Child protection is a complex field of action. It requires a high level of professionalism, good maturity and overall understanding to see the overall situation of the child in the present and several years in the future and from the point of view of choosing the right action at the right time all the time, tailor-made around the child. There may not be any other area in society that is more demanding to work in, and at the same time it is very important that people stand for a long time in their positions. At present, there is no requirement for specific competences to work in the field of child protection. The Child Protection Act does not specify the qualifications to be given to a case handler in the field of child protection, or to a manager. The left is pleased that the child protection reform takes the issue of competence seriously, both through a competence strategy, measures for improving the quality of basic training for child protection services, for continuing training and through an assessment of the competence requirements of child protection managers. One of the issues being debated today is the Left’s proposal on skills requirements for all child-restraint workers and to launch trials on five-year integrated clinical child-rescue education and training to meet these requirements. However, I note that these proposals do not come to an conclusion, with reference to the existing development of competence and to the monitoring launched by Bufdir in order to determine the competence of the Child Protection Service. While there is a good idea of such a pooling of competences – that is wise – the need for specific competences to carry out child protection tasks exists completely independently of the mapping process. It should therefore be possible to agree to a target of competence requirements for child-restraint workers and to start work to achieve this in parallel with the monitoring. Both parts at the same time should have been possible. Against this background, I am promoting the Left's proposal in Case No. 6 and 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2490	The representative Abid Q. Raja has taken up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2495	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for a good job, but I must really say that I am being declared when this child protection reform is called a trade reform. Then I wonder if there are anyone who has read the content itself, because this child protection reform is about children and families getting the help they need at the right time and where they live. The main objective is to help municipalities focus on both prevention and early action, and the reform will help municipalities to give priority to this through increased financial responsibility for child protection measures; we will have a large-scale, historical commitment to the competences of municipal child protection, and there must therefore be measures to strengthen the municipal governance of child protection. Increased financial responsibility means that municipalities also have to pay more for foster homes and institutions. This will also give municipalities stronger incentives to prevent the need for such measures. At the same time, it also gives municipalities an increased financial space to give priority to prevention and to building up good local provision for families who need close follow-up, so that more people get help early and where they live. I know that some people are concerned that this will also lead to too much emphasis being placed on economic considerations and too little attention being paid to the best interests of children when assessing measures. It is important and therefore statutory that the municipalities should have sound child protection, that the protection of children in the municipalities should have measures to help the children get the help they need, and I also trust that the municipalities will give priority to this work. Exposured children and families have a lot of attention in municipalities today. At the same time, I am concerned that there is a funding system that will provide municipalities with financial incentives to contribute to good priorities and decisions, and that means that the expenditure of municipalities on different actions needs to be seen in a context. We will closely monitor the impact of economic changes and assess the need for adjustments, if necessary. Prior to the entry into force of the reform, measures will also be identified and proposed to relieve municipalities of economic constraints where exceptional, expensive measures are needed. It is also an objective that clear framework conditions for the use of private foster home actors should be in place before municipalities are given full funding responsibility for ordinary foster homes. The government has launched several important child protection change processes. We have an experiment with new responsibilities in child protection, we have a foster home message, we have a NOU on the framework conditions for foster homes, and we have the design of a completely new child protection law. The objection to the child protection reform has been that several processes need to be completed before changes in child protection can be taken into account. I think it's important to make those changes now. In a large and complex field of expertise, there will always be processes of change that go parallel, and the proposal that is under consideration today contains measures that are widely agreed on the need for child protection: raising skills, improving governance, improving health care, improving the framework for infant and young child investigations. It would therefore be quite debilitating and unfortunate to put forward important changes that will improve the ability of municipalities to adapt the service provision to the individual child and contribute to increased competence in the service and better assistance to children and families. This child protection reform is on a safe footing, regardless of the other processes in progress. I also want to stress that if we were to have this work back again, nothing would happen in this field until closer to 2019-2020. That's why it's important that we now get a decision in the Storting that enables us to initiate important change processes that the child protection out there needs to help children and families. I am also pleased that we have had an open process in the process of child protection reform. Over 100 hearing bodies have recorded their views. We have listened to the recordings and placed great emphasis on the opinion of the hearing bodies in the proposal for a new division of responsibilities between the State and the municipality. We have had discussions with partner organisations and municipalities throughout the country. They've made their recordings in collaboration with KS. It has been particularly important to listen to children's voices, and we have therefore also had our own recording meetings with the National Children's Protection Association, the Change Factory and the Children's Ombudsman. The child protection reform shall help to ensure that more children and families receive proper assistance in a timely manner where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2512	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2517	I can comfort the Council of State that I have read, and I also believe the hearing bodies that were opposed have read. I think we agree that it is important that relief measures are put in place, both those put in the municipalities and those specialised in Bufatat. But there has been great concern, as the representative Becquerad said, especially among the speakers of the children, that special programmes should be used. That's why the committee has also asked for a review of it, and I'm very pleased about that. But can the Council of State say something about it and confirm that it is imposed so final, or is there room for using discretion and adapting what the kids it is for?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2522	I have a lot of understanding of the recordings that have come, and that have also come from the Change Factory, about exactly this. That is why I would like to stress the importance of helping children to get involved in relief measures to be implemented. Helping measures in the field of child protection must take into account the needs of children, and children must be given the opportunity to express their views. The child protection reform is based on Bufetat being the specialised level of child protection, whether it be institution, foster home or relief measures. What is contained in the legislative proposal does not involve the legal setting of specific methods or measures, such as: MST, to which there has been the most resistance. However, this means that the State should be able to assist and provide it with the assistance of the municipalities if they so wish. If the municipality, in cooperation with family and children, chooses MST to be the aid they are to provide, it shall be offered by the State. But I also support the Committee's proposal that we have a thorough review of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2529	The government wants to contribute money to the framework grant for child protection, and I want to drill a little bit into it with price differentiation in institutional places. This will lead to quite a large amount of expenditure for municipalities. Does the Council of State think that the municipalities will put the child's needs or the municipality's economy first, if the need for an institution space is going to rise to the order of NOK 200000-300000, as is also stated in the proposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2534	I am concerned about and believe that in all cases the municipalities will choose the action that is best for a child, and that the economy will not govern the actions that the child should take. When municipalities are now given greater financial responsibility by the inclusion of that reimbursement scheme in the municipal framework, where they are also required to have full funding responsibility for foster homes, it would also be natural for the ownership of institutions to increase. However, it is important to stress that the balances are also returned to the municipalities through the framework, and in addition to the reimbursement scheme, there are also more than 200 million. kr in the municipal framework for the next year to be involved and strengthen the whole of this child protection reform. We will follow this closely, and I would like to stress that the municipalities have a responsibility to always choose the action that is best for the child, and not to be economical.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2542	As I said in my post, I think it's a little strange that these specialized relief measures are lifted so high that they are also mentioned in the preliminary work on the bill. In that context, I would like to ask the Council of State what is the reason and the assessment behind the promotion of programs such as MST, multisystemal therapy, and FFT, functional family therapy, to such an extent by the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2547	In the letter of consultation sent in advance of this reform, the government proposed that the municipalities take over all the relief measures, because we believe that the municipalities could then build up good relief measures to suit the individual child and family. Then there was great opposition to these specialised relief measures, such as: MST, would be a municipal responsibility. That is why we listened to the hearing bodies and chose that the state should still be responsible for the specialised relief measures. However, it is not laid down that the action for which action is to be taken may change with new research and new knowledge. Research shows that MST in particular has a positive effect on some children. But we've also got the recordings that came from the Change Factory. That is why we are living very well with the Committee's proposal that we now review those measures and that the children should also be involved in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2554	Auxiliary measures are particularly important and should be taken over only when strictly necessary. I want to bring up with the council that there are some stories about siblings who unfortunately are split up in that phase when you have to be placed away from your own home. Does the Council have any concrete plan to ensure that you have enough foster homes and other types of homes where sibling flocks can be together when they have to leave their natural home and away from their biological family and end up being split up? Do you have a plan to make sure that the sibling can have a life together, where they also live together? In addition, there is a plan to recruit more foster homes, so that children can live with safe families as much as possible over longer periods of time and do not become a throwing ball between different institutions, shelters, waiting homes, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2563	There are important questions raised by the representative. I hope he's got the big recruitment campaign that Bufdir is now running, and that's seen by a lot of people. It is very important for us that there has been so much pressure from the Stortinget and from the government parties and cooperation parties to get more money for recruitment, because it is a challenge, especially to recruit foster homes that can take a little older children, and not least sibling positions. That's why we asked the directorate to take an extra look at what it takes to get more sibling positions in place. We are also aware that SOS children's cities are trying to work together with municipalities to get more sibling locations. But I think today's decision to use more networks and family can be a key to putting in more sibling positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2570	It is not primarily the professional advice we dispute and have strong criticism of, but the consequences of transferring tasks and responsibilities without following money. Therefore, I wonder whether the Council of State believes in complete sincerity that it was right not to complete the child protection promise, but nevertheless transfer the increased level of tasks and responsibilities to the municipalities, and how the Council of State thinks that it will be handled.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2575	We have been very concerned that this reform should be fully financed, and we believe that it is. Then there will always be municipalities that say it is not, but it is important to stress the responsibility that the municipalities also have, which they are required to have. The local economy has also been strengthened in recent years. At the same time, we're doing some grips. After all, this reform will not come into force until 2020, so we will come back once we have been investigated more, and look at how this will work. However, full funding is the objective of this reform and, of course, the transfer of the reimbursement arrangements to the municipalities and also the tasks for which the municipalities are to take responsibility must also be accompanied by the money. We are going to follow closely the economics of this reform, but there are many things in the reform already – both the commitment of competence and the cooperation between mental health and child protection – where we have started to increase the budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2584	Here it's just to put your trust in the red-green municipality economy, because the municipalities are going to need considerable strength in order to be able to handle both the aftermath and the new tasks that are being introduced. This is an area where the Council of State has revealed very poor control of the cash flows. And this is the case when tenders are more important than long-term contracts, and when care is treated according to market principles. The last time I checked, the Council of State had no idea how much of the money has been spent on vulnerable young people, who are currently being taken out in private profit, and who today reaches child protection barons and not the kids they are supposed to reach. Then I wonder if the overview has improved since the last time, and if the Council of State has come up with some thoughts as to whether there is a limit to where the dividends will go.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2593	Let me just start by saying that the local economy has not been better than it is now in ten years, and it is thanks to this government and the cooperation parties that we have managed to get a big boost for the municipalities. Municipal Child Protection has also been raised in this period of over 150 million. NOK, in addition to continuing to designate posts. Then the representative takes up what goes on cost control with private actors. I would like to stress that we have good control of this. We don't pay anything more for these places than what we do for others. But then it's also important when we're going to have bidding, to make sure that we don't pay more than what we've done for private people. We have also announced in the reform that we will have a review of the private actors also in the foster home area, because we see that there is a great increase, and it is important that we have good control of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2600	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2607	This is a reform that experiences at least as much as a task and municipal reform as a child protection reform, and that is not what child protection needs. What child protection needs is a comprehensive and thorough child protection reform with clear objectives. What we are in danger of achieving with this reform now is creating expectations for increased child protection capacity on behalf of the municipalities, without the local authorities being really able to follow it up. Yes, there are challenges to earmarking funds for municipalities. Of course, it can be frustrating for local politicians and the administration. But as one who has more experience from the local government's pulpit than from this pulpit, and who is going back to the municipal building when this session is over, I know that what really is frustrating is when expectations are created, when the state promises on behalf of the municipal services, without taking sufficient responsibility for the fact that there are resources to produce services in line with what the state has promised on behalf of the municipalities. The government itself writes in the proposition that: ‘there has been a relatively stronger growth in the number of employees than in the number of new cases in recent years, partly due to the gradual designation of posts’. So earmarking works, and the Labour Party believes that if such a reform is to succeed, it must continue. Here we can also refer to experience from other sectors. After several years of government funding for school health services, e.g., the need to earmark the funds has become increasingly clear, in order to actually have the desired effect. The alternative is to continue to create expectations that local authorities are unable to follow up. Similar warnings have also been received from several teams through the consultation. The safety situation of child-restraint workers is also worrying. In a study conducted by Dagbladet, 33 out of 104 child protection leaders who responded reported threats to their own babies. In April, in the Glåmdalen newspaper, we were able to read about the head of child protection in Solør, who asked the Council of State to protect the employees of child protection against threats and shikanes. He was simply concerned about the recruitment of child protection and called for the involvement of both the Minister for Children and Gender Equality and the Minister for Justice. After these matters in February and April, little has happened. At the latest today, we were able to read again in the Glaumdalen a case of the same child protection officer, who has now himself been subjected to killing threats because he went out and defended his employees and asked for help. This is an unsustainable situation. Child protection employees make every day a great effort for the best of their children in difficult situations. In these matters, the Council of State has, first, transferred responsibility to the municipalities and, second, to the reform that is being discussed here today. But one would wish that there were real tools here to do something about the situation. At least it is good that an overall committee now asks the government to assess how child-restraint workers can be secured against violence and threats. It's an initiative that the government could have taken a lot earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2631	At the representative, Wold, it seemed that if we send back the proposition, everything stops. It's not like that. There is a lot already going on, and – as the Council of State also said – this will start in 2020. So here we have time to look at the whole thing. We believe that this is a transfer of responsibility rather than an improvement in child protection, and we also need to respect that we mean, and we have read the proposition as well as perhaps the Council of State has done. Kids are no good. Therefore, I am pleased that there is something in the proposition about a review of the use of private operators. Clearly, the use of private operators also concerns the government, as mentioned several times. It is important to review the rules, look at tendering procedures and look at the guidelines on how to improve the quality and good use of money. The thing that's going on in the media now is a horror example that we don't want to see. There is also reason to worry about the municipalities that leave this to private people, and buy services where they are both investigators, case handlers and providers of services, which is to put the goat to the oat bag. It should also be looked at, but unfortunately it does not support the government parties in the proposal we have tabled. To put it to the vote: we support Amendment No 1 by Mr Left. 12 in Case No. 6th@item: inlistbox It lacks our desire to limit the output, but if we get to a review, it's in any case good. Then it's at least a little bit further. The centre party has a lot of good input into its ten-point proposal, in case no. 6th@item: inlistbox There are things that are important to keep looking at, but we can't stand behind all those things. That is why we do not support that proposal. Nor do we support the proposals. 1-3 of case No. 7th@item: inlistbox As regards the Left's proposal on competence, in case No. 8, we don't disagree that there should be a requirement for competence, but here we see in the proposition that it has already been announced that it should be reviewed, and that's why we don't choose to support it. I realized that SV does not promote proposals, so I do not say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2653	I'm wondering if I'm listening to the proposals that are about to postpone the reform. Thus, the representative will not initiate competence monitoring, not have a strategy of competence, not change the law so that all municipalities do the same. Bergen, look in networks and family for new caregivers. They'll wait. They're simply saying no. What they want to wait for is a little bit unclear, but they want to wait. This is by itself not new tones from any of these parties in this period, but it is surprising that they will now stop the change that is clearly in the interest of children and young people. As the Right sees it, this reform is over-mature, and this is a reform to be implemented over several years. When I hear the arguments for reversing the reform, it sounds to me as if she thinks that a reform can be done once and for all, that only we wait a little while, then the clear answer to how we should do this. The right considers that children who are exposed to care failure and abuse in their home must meet with a service that continuously works with quality and new and better ways to meet children. This is also what we're doing here at Stortinget in this area. We are impatient, and on behalf of the children we welcome the reform. So price differentiation: it sounds like it didn't cost money to place children in institutions or to have them in foster homes until now, when we move it to the municipality, but it has, of course, done so. It also seems that there have never been challenges to where children should be placed and that those challenges have never had anything to do with economics. That's also wrong, we know that. We know that the state and the municipality have had their problems with location. What we're doing now is actually letting the municipality get a hand on the wheel throughout the process. This means that they get the responsibility for where children are to be placed, they get more choices as to where children are to be placed, but they also have to take a little bit of the economy. So one explanation of vote – and then I am speaking on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party, i.e. the government parties: this concerns the solution of proposal No. 12, from the left, which we want to support. This is said something about the actual proposition, so it's unproblematic. Then there is a proposal that lies in the matter, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, a minority proposal on full funding. This is also in the case as it is lying down, so it is a bit like turning open the doors, but we can agree to it. Some of us are old municipal politicians, so that's what we can do. This is the case with the Left and the proposals relating to their representative proposals: we have great faith in that, we like the proposals, but we see that this is also the case, so we do not choose to support it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2670	I had waited in suspense for a child protection law, a new law that had taken over it, among other things. the invaluable recordings that have come from the Change Factory and the Children's Protection Professionals, to take it naturally, that we must have «love into the law». Because that's what these kids need -- love and order. That is not what we have been given, but I have followed the debate and heard a little about what has been said about the quality of child protection. I think everyone's concerned about that. In the municipal committee, however, we have now been working on a municipal reform that was largely justified on the grounds that the quality of child protection in the small municipalities was too poor and that therefore municipalities had to be merged. And there has been cause for criticism of child protection in some of the small municipalities, but there has been jam in some of the large municipalities as well. But the government's municipal reform does not respond to this at all. SV has been against coercion, because we have seen a different solution, that the tasks that were too large for the municipalities should have been raised to the county level, as we suggested in the regional reform when it was dealt with here. The government doesn't. They have a municipal reform where they merge some municipalities – some of them get really big, but some of them are still very small – and they answer this by transferring even more child protection tasks to the municipalities that are still small. I think this is serious, because this is one of the tasks that can be very difficult for many municipalities to handle, and it costs a lot of money. I also read in the local language Glamdalen today about conditions, among other things. in the municipality of Åsne, where there are threats, and there is one side to this matter which is very serious and which must be taken more seriously by the government. But the other thing that stood there is that this is a municipality that has taken a very big responsibility for foster home placements, and that they know that it ends up with a big minus in its budgets, that they accept very many foster children in the municipality are not compensated well enough in the municipal economy, that this is not reflected well enough in the system of municipal economy. SV has addressed this several times. We have not received an answer, and I cannot see that this reform that the government is proposing today improves on this at all – a little on the contrary. So I have a somewhat sad feeling that there's even more responsibility down here in the municipalities, without going through and looking at the level at which these tasks could be done in a better way than what is being done in some municipalities today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2685	I wish I could stand here today with a new Children's Protection Act – in connection with the reform we are dealing with today – but we got the NOU on the new Child Protection Act last October, a little delayed. New Children's Protection Act has been at a broad consultation, and there have been many good contributions to it, with which we are now working. There will be a new Children’s Protection Act – the Department is working on this – but it is also important to put this child protection reform in place. The proposition under consideration today is a part of the message and a part of the proposition. Something is a legislative change, but a lot of what's there is going on at the competence initiative that's important to get in place before the municipalities get more responsibility. It's about better cooperation between mental health and child protection, which the Minister of Health and I have already started, and which is incredibly important if we're going to be able to catch up with the Ida stuff that's out there. It sounds like the municipalities are going to have a huge responsibility. What lies here now – I have also listened to the hearing bodies – is that municipalities are given less responsibility for foster homes than what was initially planned, because many municipalities said they were not ready for it. That is why we have listened to the hearing bodies. At the same time, we have said that the state should still have the obligation to provide assistance and responsibility for institutions, but municipalities should be given greater freedom of choice. We have said that the state should be responsible for infant and young child investigations, for which the municipalities are responsible today, but where it is incredibly important to take action as early as possible, for which the state is now to be responsible. The great responsibility of the municipalities is in the foster home area. It is also important that municipalities receive funding for this. I want to say a few things about what's going on against those who work in child protection. Like several representatives, I am extremely concerned that those who go to work every single day and are going to be there to protect our children are being exposed to the heat and vigour and threats to their own family. Child protection has to endure criticism – we have a review to see how child protection is doing its work – but the sheik and the heat that is out there now has gone too far. We've taken care of this. We have now had a cooperation meeting with both the KS, the directorate, the department, the police and several municipalities who have experience in this, in order to gain insights and ideas about how this work can be done. We're now working on tools that local authorities can use. We are also working on how the police handle these matters. Criminal threats and harassment against public officials shall be reported to the police. I do not transfer responsibility to the municipalities, but the municipalities have an employer's responsibility to take care of the employees who work in child protection, as for those who work in Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2696	The representative, Sonja Mandt, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2701	I felt a need to clean up a bit. It's not about reversing a reform, but we're adding more ambition to what we want to present than what's available here. We want more. We don't want the fragmented proposition that now exists. Things don't stop. The councils were in on it. Things are still going on. Municipalities place themselves in close family. Competence building takes place, cf. the budget. So it's still doing things. And child protection is getting better. It was announced a new Children's Protection Act. It's not finished, and therefore this piece and division, as now, just because something has to be delivered. That is why we are also voting against. We think it's too fragmented and too fragmentary and too divided. We want the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2712	I'll give you a little explanation of vote and a comment. I agree with the representative Mandt. The part of the centre will not support its proposition. It's not because we want to send him back, but because we're different in the proposition that has been made, and we're particularly different in the economic premises that form the basis of the proposition. It is said that there is a transfer of responsibility to the municipalities. We read the case so that it is primarily a transfer of payment liability to the municipalities. We think this has to come at the same time, otherwise the economic focus becomes too big, in our view. That is why we will not vote in favour of any of the loose proposals in this matter. We think it's most tidy. If we're opposed to the proposition, we're voting against it. We have a holistic alternative proposal that says what we want, and what we mean by child protection – everything from quality and empowerment, funding system, who should be responsible for the provision of institutions, what municipalities should do, what we mean by a principle of subsidiarity attached to health services. We do not expect others to vote in favour of that proposal. There is an explanation of vote by the Central Party on why we cannot join this case today and will not go into the loose proposals, in which we may be a few, but which we will not go into as a single proposal, for example. when it concerns the proposal to complete this reform. Of course, it's strange: why shouldn't the Center Party vote for it? But it is, of course, a full funding of a reform that we do not agree to. It would be nice to vote in favour of that proposal. Then I hope that I have done the right thing for our vote in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2723	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6-8.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2739	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2748	I would first like to thank the Committee on good cooperation. The aim of the bill is to facilitate banks and other credit providers to obtain a better overview of the amount of unsecured debt of customers applying for loans and credit. The government makes a proposal for a law allowing private individuals to set up their own companies that can disseminate debt information between banks and other credit providers for credit rating purposes. The Committee considers, in principle, that access to credit is a good thing for consumers. At the same time, the Committee is concerned that unsecured consumer loans represent a strong increase in the total debt of households. This in combination with high mortgages is a source of concern. The Committee agrees that access to the establishment of debt information undertakings is granted to actors, but nevertheless points out that it is important that these actors are under public supervision. The Committee has noted that the government has spent three years collecting a private debt register and that it opens up to look at the best way to organise work. Uncertainty as to whether the proper organisation of debt information has been chosen means that an overall committee proposes to evaluate the scheme and come back to the Storing case within two years of the establishment of the chosen system. The Committee is further divided into a view on who is best suited to this task. The Labour Party considers that a public operator for which the central body of the State would have done this task in a good way, both for financial institutions and for consumers, but there is no majority in favour in this process. We therefore support the government's proposals, however, because the concern and need for debt information about unsecured debt is great. Furthermore, the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party have a proposal to impose a cap on unsecured debt and ask the government to come to the Stortinget on this matter. The reason for that proposal is that we see comparable countries that have introduced debt information registers having financial market players offering unsecured credit at high interest rates, on the grounds that debt registers are not used. Several actors support this, including: The Debt Victim Alliance. Finally, I would like to mention that the Workers' Party proposes that local economic advisors should have access to the indebtedness information that these companies will have, and this is in order to better assist consumers who have come up with a situation where they need the help of financial advisors in the municipalities. With this, I would recommend to the majority the recommendation on evaluation and address the proposals of the Christian People's Party and the Labour Party and the proposal that the Labour Party alone is promoting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2767	The representative Hege Haukeland Liadal has addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2772	The credit is basically a good one and is a way we've arranged in society, but at the same time a very bad one when you can no longer serve it. Therefore, it is good that in this case and in a number of other cases in the period, different ways have emerged to make it more difficult to borrow for those who do not need it, and who are now, to obtain a better overview for those who are going to borrow money. I would like to add some comments to the four proposals and start with that proposal from the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party, which refers to the purpose of the law, and that it should highlight direct benefits for consumers. This proposal, No. 2 in the case, is simply unnecessary, for the reason that the very basis for the law has been established is exactly what is there. It's already taken care of, as we see it. Furthermore, the same applies to proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, where it is proposed that the first paragraph (b) of Section 12 of the Debt Information Act be replaced by the following: «municipality, in the context of the examination of the application for a start-up loan or an application for a change of terms and conditions for the start-up loan granted and individual financial advice.» It is our opinion that it is desirable to limit access to the debt register – the portal or what it ends up becoming, simply by privacy considerations. The more you open it, the more risk you take. As regards proposal No: 3 in the case, where the government is asked to investigate and promote a bill designed for a portal-based service, we think it would be better for the industry itself to be free to choose the solution it considers appropriate. As this is a new area in Norway, it may be an idea to allow the market itself to find the best system, even as it is the matter that it is to be evaluated after a while. Last but not least, and which I shall spend most time on: the proposal of interest rate caps. The members of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the proposal, which reads: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the possibility of imposing a ceiling on interest rates and to return to the Storting on a case to this effect’. We believe that looking at an interest rate ceiling, in the light of all the other measures that are now being introduced, is not necessary. At the same time, there is a certain risk of having too rigid regulation. You can force borrowers who are in a situation of pressure, into a market that we don't want them to be in. Then I take note that on 4 April, the Left voted against the exact same wording in a case from the Finance Committee – exactly the same wording! So did the Christian People’s Party. The left has turned, among others: they have had a national meeting in the meantime which has changed their view on interest rates. It would be interesting to hear from the representative of the Christian People's Party what is the reason that, on April 4th – after all, only two months ago – you voted against the wording "The government asked the government to investigate the possibility of introducing an interest rate ceiling and to come back to the Stortinget with a case on this," while today it wants to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2795	The overall growth in debt in Norway has been quite significant in recent years, both in terms of the debt development of housing, i.e. secured debt, and also in terms of consumption loans. The challenge is finally to end up with a debt burden that is demanding for the individual. On the other hand, we must initially have confidence that the borrower and lender are able to conclude agreements that are good enough for both parties, but this requires that the relevant information be provided before such an agreement is concluded. That is what this register should primarily contribute to ensuring in a good way. It will always be such that when creating new registers, a person has to assess the privacy considerations to be addressed. It's done in the proposition in a good way. It is important that we do not get into a situation where privacy is threatened by unnecessary records. The proportionality assessment carried out by the Ministry seems to me to be good, and I also believe that the assessment made against the work done on the EU data protection regulation is satisfactory. Then we have to see what's going to be the final result. What I think is strange is that the Workers' Party has a note that underlines the importance of privacy on the one hand, while on the other hand they are behind a proposal that will help to extend the circle of people who are given access to or quite substantial access to this information, by opening up that it will also include municipal debt advisors. I believe that in the setting there is a number of about 500 people who will also be able to search. It will help to further put privacy under pressure, and the possibility of misuse of information can become somewhat greater. I do not think the assessments made by the Workers' Party in the comment give particularly good reflections on the reason why one should expand the circle to access this information further. It is an important balance, and I think it may be a little strange that one has not made that balance any more concretely on the part of the Workers' Party. Then I have just a few comments on proposal No. 1 for interest rate caps. It's a rather demanding issue, because I think there are few who couldn't want a lower interest rate, but a loan agreement is actually an agreement between two parties, and it is concluded under the conditions on which the parties are willing to enter into it, in addition to that this is a very pervasive area from before. I'm not sure if you're going to achieve anything with an interest rate cap. Maybe it can even contribute to the opposite of what one wants, by putting a kind of maximum interest rate pressure on the interest rate of several lenders instead of down. I also find it interesting that this is such a demanding question for more people in the room – perhaps especially for the Christian People's Party – that it has led them to have several positions in a short time. I am pleased to see the clarification that we are now sure to get from the representative Beckevold at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2808	It is good that expectations are linked to the contributions of the Christian People's Party. So it is not certain that neither the representative Eidem Løvaas nor the representative Anundsen will be satisfied with the post or the answer or whatever it might be, but I understand that they have had quite a lot of fun with this. The Christian People's Party also notes that according to the government, this bill is intended to facilitate a better overview of consumer credit by banks and other credit providers, which they believe will help to limit the debt problems of private households. We believe that the benefits of the law for consumers are so important that it should also be lifted in the purpose section, which we propose. It's consumers' interests Christian People's Party will take care of when we want to assess the possibility of raising interest rates. We know that today there are actors who take disproportionately high interest rates on unsecured debt, and that the consequences of this particularly affect consumers with the weakest ability to pay. To assess this – we know it’s done in other countries – I think we should be able to look at it, and then I hope you can come back with an assessment of it. Another important concern for consumers is, of course, what the representative, Anundsen, was also concerned with, namely privacy. In this context, the Christian People's Party points out that a portal-based service can be a better alternative than a register for privacy purposes and believes that the government should clearly guide the solutions to be explored and on which criteria. The Christian People's Party is critical of making personal data a commodity and therefore considers it essential that the government play an active role in the design of any debt registers or portals. I think that if these assessments are left to the industry itself, as the government suggests in this proposition, you can ask questions as to whether it is the concern of consumers who are being cared for or whether there are other considerations that are being addressed the most. We hope to put in place a system that will help not least consumers to have more control over their own economy. I think the Lucsus case on TV3 makes it clear that there are many people who are really struggling, and I am a little surprised when I see that this could have been anyone. Having a register, a portal, a tool that helps us avoid more people getting into a debt crisis in the future, I hope we can get in place, because this does not only affect the one who has fallen into deep debt, this affects an entire family.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2823	Today, the individual’s debt obligation is not available for credit rating. This may result in a situation in which a credit is granted that is disproportionate to the loan limit. Now the government proposes that private operators be allowed to establish own entities that may provide such debt information between banks and other credit providers for credit rating purposes. The centre party supports the creation of a debt register. We think there is a great need for that. But we think that such a register should be created in public, and we are proposing this today, which has such a wording: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Storting to introduce a public debt register.’ Subsidiary, we will vote in favour of the motion by the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party for a portal-based solution. So let's just think about it, and hope it can be clarified here, that such a portal-based solution can be created in public, and it would be nice to get a comment on it from the proposers. Otherwise, the Central Party will support the proposal to erase the option of imposing an interest rate cap. The red-green government sent a suggestion on the phone about both a private and a public model. One then concluded that a public model established in connection with the Solver Register was one of the recommended ones. At that time, there was a large number of hearing aids pointing out that a public operating register established in the Solver register was the one that preferred it. It says in that proposition: ‘The consistent argument of the bodies for a public model can be summarised through the opinion of DNB Bank ASA, which states that a public register will appear to be more neutral, can ensure privacy in a good way and will achieve greater confidence than a private register. Furthermore, it is said that the experience gained from public registers is good and that there is reason to believe that the same would apply to a public credit register. Attention is also paid to the competence and systems of the Brønn Island Health Registers for personal registers, which may be further built upon by the establishment of a debt register.’ We are not directly pointing to the Solver register in the proposal, but we are asking the government to come to Stortinget with a matter of entering a debt register in the public domain. That is our primary position.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2840	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2845	The SV sees it as a political responsibility to close down debt traps and prevent people from ending up in a situation where debt cannot be served, and where it has great consequences for people's lives. Therefore, SV has long been the champion of a debt register, and has also been the driver for it. But there is an important device, in terms of both form and purpose. I think that in previous articles it was argued very well and clearly why a public debt register is most appropriate and safe. SV supports proposal No. 5. from the Central Party, but we also support the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party, and subsidiary proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox We think it's wise thoughts that have been promoted. I have to say that it is very gratifying that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party have taken inspiration from the SV's proposal on interest rate caps, which we promoted in connection with a proposal by a representative to close debt traps. We like to share good politics, and we like it when other parties take it up. So there's good reason to look at that. You might find it nice that someone has voted for and against in different cases. We have been consistent in our view, but I think more and more people see that it makes sense and that there are good reasons why the countries that have introduced this have actually done so. I would also recommend that inspiration be found from the other proposals we have made in closing the debt trap, including: what is going on aggressive marketing and more regulation. Because that's how you get to throw consumer loans after yourself. You can't take a plane, go to a mall or pick up your post without having to throw out your consumption loans with sky-high interest rates after you. It's clear that people who are in charge of the caretakers are not the most vulnerable to end up in these traps. But it's easy to get into a very negative circle, replacing debt with debt, and where interest is shooting in the weather, and you end up in a spiral that you didn't realize you could get into. You've heard a lot of experiences about this – it can happen more than you know. That is why we think it important to take the necessary and proper steps to prevent people from falling into debt and to prevent this aggressive marketing, which is totally out of control, from continuing. But what kind of grip you take will also affect the results you get. So I would like to stress the importance of voting in favour of the proposal on public debt registers, because we think that is most appropriate. But there's a positive movement in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2865	Most people are able to service their debts. In many cases, you are encouraged – and it may also be useful – to use credit cards when travelling and when ordering online. In particular, the development of consumer debt is a cause for concern. The consumption debt is now approximately 100 billion. kr, and it grows three times faster than other debts. In particular, young people face challenges in reimbursing their consumption debts. Today, it is possible to raise large consumption loans within a short period of time, and the debt can eventually become impossible to service. The reason is often that the various lenders do not know how much consumer debt the customer already has. As one of several measures against this development, the government has today presented a proposal for the Debt Information Act. The purpose of the law is to improve the ability of lenders to do good credit ratings for the customer. The legislative proposal is the result of a long process. This is because the matter has been difficult both professionally and politically. I am pleased that the committee supports the main features of the bill. It's important that we now put in place a system of debt information. When the work on this law started, it was about a debt register. During the consultation, it was found that other solutions are also possible, such as: a questionnaire. That is why we have made the law 'technology neutral' so that the industry can choose the best solution they think is. There may also be new solutions that we do not know about today. The law should therefore not shut down technological developments. The government believes that a debt information mechanism should be private, which excludes its being added to a public agency, such as the public sector. The central body of the state's collection. Whatever solution is chosen, privacy considerations will be well taken care of. Indebted persons must be authorised by the Ministry and under the supervision of the Financial Supervisory Authority. There are also strict rules on who can access the debt information and what it can be used for. Privacy considerations are also the reason why we do not want anyone other than those to borrow money to use the debt information. I see that both the collection and debt advisors could have benefited from the information, but this would significantly impair privacy. Information could then be more easily balanced. The proposal has taken into account the fact that the EU has adopted a new data protection regulation on which Norway will be bound by it under the EEA Agreement. The relationship to the Regulation is referred to several places in the proposition. After the legislative proposal, individual consumers will of course have full access to their own information. This makes it easy for everyone to get an overview of their own consumption debts. The ones that, for example, must have indebted advice, may take their information with the adviser. There is therefore no need for the consultant to have direct access – which is one of the proposals. Since this consideration has been taken into account, I see no reason to include this in the law's provision of purpose, as the minority of the committee suggests. Interest rate caps have also been proposed as a measure to slow down the growth of consumer debt. The government is now proposing more measures in this field, and I believe that we should look at their impact before considering other instruments. We're all concerned about the development of debt we've seen in recent years, and the problems this can cause both individuals and families. The law currently under treatment will be an important and long-term contribution to counteracting these developments. I also want to underline what was raised about evaluation. We have already started an evaluation of this. We've already asked the State Institute for Consumer Research, SIFO, to look at what it's like today, so that we get a follow-up evaluation and in a short time can look at how this portal or this register will work. It is also important that there is a technology neutral system that is now being adopted, because there may be developments all the way. The proposal for a questionnaire came up just before the consultation deadline expired. That's why it was important for the government to present both of these issues, and it's up to the industry itself which technology they choose. However, they shall be authorised by the Ministry and supervised by the Financial Supervisory Authority in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2893	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2898	I asked Mr Bekkewold a question about what had happened between 4 April and today, which led to the vote on a proposal on 4 April and to the announcement that one should vote in favour of the proposal today – when the wording is exactly the same. I do not think the answer was driving well, but it was in any case consumers' interests that were stated as a reason. I don't know if the heart of the Christian People's Party suddenly knocks warmer for consumers in the two months that have passed, or what has happened, but I'm sure I'll know more about that. What's particularly interesting is that when we dealt with the financial market notification, Inner. 360 S, in this room yesterday, there was a similar proposal to ask the government to collect interest caps on consumer loans. Then the representative voted against Bekkevold, so something has obviously happened tonight regarding his concern for the interests of consumers. It would have been interesting to hear what is the reason why the Christian People's Party has now turned around.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2905	I hope many turns, because it is absolutely necessary that we put in place more and stronger measures against the serious development of consumption and unsecured debt that we see. Therefore, about one year ago, SV promoted a comprehensive proposal to close debt traps, including: this with a public debt register was part of it. It was a matter that was completed by the red-green government, but was put in the drawer, and unfortunately has not come forward until now. But now it is not a proposal for a public debt register that exists, but a debt register. It's better than nothing, but it's not good enough. It is absolutely necessary to put it in place, so that banks and other serious financial institutions should also be able to implement their deterrent obligations, as they have by law. It's completely impossible when they don't have the overview. But the most serious thing is all the unsecured loans that are given, either as credit card loans when you are going to buy something, such as loans that tick on your cell phone, or that are in a small advertisement in the paper: Call here! If you have money problems, get $50,000 without security. Many of those who are in a debt trap already, we know they are in this debt trap. Many people can't pay back, because when they have payment problems, interest increases to a cloudy level. Yes, some operate with interest rates of 30-40 pst. on this type of loan. Me and SV are very concerned that people should settle for themselves, but it is completely impossible to settle for when those who borrow take such interest. It is therefore necessary to do what other European countries have done: raise interest rates on unsecured debt. I read in the statement that this is what the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party mean by their proposal, sail whether the proposal is not formulated this way – it concerns interest caps in general, and that is a slightly different matter. SV is going to vote for it, but it's going to be about the unsecured debt. This is very profitable for those who borrow out, otherwise they didn't have to keep doing it. Putting people in a debt trap makes you capable of making a tremendous amount of money on the misfortune of other people. It would have been much better if you had regulated this better than what you are doing today, with a ceiling on interest rates, by saying that that kind of debt should only be recovered with your own debt, i.e. that you cannot use professional agencies for it – that is, fees and the like – and that in that case you have to be allowed to buy back your own debt for what a credit company can buy it for. A number of other rules are needed in this area. I think the government has shown very little action on behalf of the victims of the debt.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2920	I would like to stress that I agree that this matter has taken a long time, but it has been important for the government to ensure that we have a system that works in the best possible way, and to see if it should be a public or private task. This government is of the opinion that if it's private that can do a service, it doesn't always need the public to do it. We also wanted to make sure that the data protection was properly protected. There is a lot of talk about whether there should be a register or a portal. If we had a register in place today, I would say that it had almost been a little busy, because when we had the hearing, there was a clear suggestion that we should have a portal rather than a register. So there are several ways of communicating debt data. At the hearing, Finanz Norway came to the conclusion that this legal text should be made technology-neutral, so that we could use more modern devices than databases, for example. a questionnaire. Then it's important that the Storting makes a decision that allows us to open up to the technology that's out there. In the future – as I also said in my article – other instruments can come, which can work better. It is important that we do not believe that a debt register or a debt portal will solve all the problems. With the current increase in consumption debt, more measures need to be taken in place. I disagree with the representative, Karin Andersen, who says that this government has not done enough. We have made significant decisions to mitigate the consumption debt. We have gone in to stop the aggressive marketing of loans. The financial industry itself has also taken action, by now having a completed sum on the giro when it arrives. I also think it is important that we bet on personal finances, and I am pleased that the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion has been involved – in cooperation with the Consumer Ombudsman and Finance Norway – and really invested in the Economic Note and measures that allow children and young people to get more information about the personal economy. It makes them better rusty as adults, when they're dealing with their economic situation. We know that many young people today are not aware of what nominal interest rates and effective interest rates are. They have no idea what debt collection is. They also have no idea that consumer debt is expensive, and then it is important that that information is available. I want to hit a blow for school menu.no, which is a good move, and which allows teachers all over the country to get good tools to get more into personal finances at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2935	Learning about economics is very important, so I agree with the Council of State that it is good to bet on it. In addition, it is essential that municipal debt advice is professional. There must be some sharp-cut economists facing some of these creditors. But it is also absolutely necessary that the authorities limit the huge gain that is going to lend to people who would never have had a loan, because initially you don't have the money to serve it. There are many reasons why people end up in such a situation, and we can moralize it -- or not, because it doesn't help much. But we should have some rules that are such that the debtor has the opportunity to pay it, and that it should not be possible to advertise loans that are unsecured and that have excessive interest rates. I'm not in doubt that the serious part of the lending and finance industries in Norway will be involved in some information measures, so it's easier for people to see what the loan they've taken up really costs, because it can be difficult. Many have gone on such limbs without fully understanding what kind of obligations they have. But there are also others who are more unprofessional. One of the things that's part of the serious market is credit cards. I have a couple of such credit cards sail, among other things. I have one from Coop, a membership organization that both I and my parents have been a member of all their lives. But I almost want to sign out, because they tell me that if I buy chalk with that card, I get cheaper goods. They lure that if you buy on chalk, you get cheaper goods. Obviously, for those of us who are in charge of the economy and fear of debt, this is going well, but for many who don't have complete control of this, it's difficult. Therefore, SV believes that it should be prohibited to link price reductions to the use of credit cards, i.e. that you are tempted to buy something on chalk, and that you get it cheaper when you shop on chalk, than when you pay cash. It's against all reason, because it means that more people who can't afford to trade that product actually do it. So at interest rate caps. It is absolutely necessary to have it put in place, because it is completely unreasonable to have an unlimited opportunity to charge sky high interest rates on an unsecured loan. If you get the interest rate down, there's going to be two things: one is that fewer are going to throw these loans at people who would never have them. The other thing that happens is that more people are going to be able to settle their debts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2948	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2964	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2973	First, I would like to thank the Committee for a very good cooperation, but I also want to thank all those who have made recordings along the way, because the Committee believes that with those recordings the law has improved, and it has become in line with the many hearing opinions and the commitment that have been. As I said, there is a great deal of consensus in the committee, and I would like to highlight some of the things we have been particularly concerned about in the discussion. First of all, I would like to say that adoption should be for the sake of children and their growth. There are reasons for adoption, and the law has to take into account to meet all of them. Changes in Prop. 88 L on the adoption law involves the legislative and systematisation of practices and the guidelines that are already in use today. It is an authority task to deal with adoption, and it is therefore important to have good rules to deal with. The committee is behind the changes in most of the cases here, but we have some moments. The government proposed that pre-consents for one child or one sibling should have a limit of zero to three years. The Committee has listened here to the hearing bodies and proposed a limit of five years. We also clarify that the requirement of formal competence, which means that many people who want to adopt, don't get it done, we don't think we should be stressed so hard. We believe that children's professional competence should not be one-sided, but suitability. The Committee also considers that the process period should be reduced in the case of foreign adoptions. The length of the procedure means that children and parents have to wait unnecessarily for a long time and, according to the hearing, the allocation can also be withdrawn by foreign authorities because it takes too long. There is also reason to recall that this has been pointed out in the past with the long process period in the same family if it is possible to take time before adoption, and this should also be simplified. The proposal to lower the age limit from 18 to 15 in order to know who your original parents are is does not agree with the committee. The Committee wants to maintain the 18-year-old limit, because we think it might be a burden for 15-year-olds to learn about their origins, which even an 18-year-old seems tough. Here, too, the committee has listened to recordings that were very clear that the limit should still be 18 years old. However, we would remind you that adoptive parents are themselves responsible for informing at an early stage about adoption, so that children get the necessary knowledge about themselves and about their background. The Committee has also received input on evidence of birthplace, and it has been a challenge for some to remove it. Action has been taken, but it is important that the government follow closely, so that adopted children do not face obstacles when they are to have passports and out and travel. It is also important that children who are adopted have the follow-up children need. Someone doesn't need any follow-up, others need more help, and they need help for a long time. In Denmark, a type of centre has been established and the Committee considers it necessary that Norway also looks at how best to help those who need it. It should be a place where a person gathers knowledge, where a person transfers competence and guides. How this should be organised should be looked at by the government. Once again, there is a unanimous committee behind most of the comments and changes, and I expect that the Christian People's Party might say what they are not behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e2992	During the work on the new law, we have received more input from parents who have adopted children, from adopted themselves, from those who approve, and from those who help. This is an area where we're often a little bit at the heart of our emotions. Anyone who has biological children does so without the home being invaded and the parent role being evaluated in advance. But if you're going to adopt, the rules are different, and they have to be. At the same time, the Right believes that we must not make it so difficult to adopt that children stay seated and wait without being able to have a new mother and father. Before I say anything about why the Right has chosen to support several of the changes in the setting, I just want to thank all those who have opened up to us, told their stories and gave us advice. In the High Guard, we're so lucky to have a tough three-child mom. She is alone in caring for three children, and they are adopted. She's not A4, she's been through the process alone. After hearing her story of good and some not quite so good helpers in that process, I think that less tough types might not have dared or energy, and that should not be so. It had meant that a small, cool family had not existed, and that three children had not had a home. So it's going to have to be simpler, and the processes should go faster. Children who are adopted can gain insight into their history when they are 18 years old. In this case, it is proposed to lower this limit to 15 years. This was an overall hearing, including those who represented the children, who did not recommend us to do that, and so we have listened to that. Children adopted from other countries are getting older and older, and it was proposed in the Committee's recommendation to grant authorisation for children from the age of 0 to 5 years that they do not have two categories as they do today. This was not followed up, but a joint committee agreed to make those amendments today. Another feedback received in the hearing was that the length of time spent in professional selections dealing with matters with children with special needs has been too long. The right here supports the proposal which says that the length of the procedure should not exceed 30 days. We cannot get into a situation where children may not get a home because we cannot handle matters quickly enough. We have met that there must be quality in the processing, but quality does not necessarily take the longest possible time. It's quality to get things away as well. During the hearing, we were reminded that children adopted from other countries are the children of other countries. Some of the children who have a family in Norway do not need that much extra, while others need more. The Committee has listened and submitted a proposal assessing how children and parents should be followed up when they come home. The old adoption law is 30 years old and needed a review. The new law will contribute to greater predictability, equal treatment and higher quality in adoption cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3009	The centre party supports the changes currently being made in the adoption laws, and we think it is good that the Stortinget now legislates practices and guidelines, so that the various provisions of the laws are better systematised. The legislative proposal that is being adopted today has come after a long process that started in the red-green period of government. The adoption law selection, presented in 2014, was selected in 2012 and the work of the adoption law committee was based on the Hove selection, named in 2008. We support the Committee's settings with the changes made, but we have some comments. To raise the age limit for the pre-approval of adoption from today’s 0–3 years to 5 years’ obligations. The centre party believes that the changes must be followed closely, and that the necessary measures must be taken if a new feature is found to have adverse effects in practice. We note that raising the age limit for pre-approval was not proposed in the proposal, but has arrived during the committee procedure, and we believe that this must be seen in the context of better follow-up after adoption. It is good that we decide today to identify the need for follow-up after adoption. It is clear that the need is there, and monitoring must lead to better follow-up of familials after adoption. In dealing with the fosterheim notification, the Stortinget decided to ask the government to look at measures that can be taken to ensure that adopted children can be followed as closely as possible and ensure a good growth, Decision 744, and today the Stortinget is asking the Government to consider the need for follow-up of adopted and familial deira in line with Article 9 of the Hague Convention, where one model, such as the Danish one, can be considered as an alternative and come back to Stortinget in its own way. It is also important that the government follow up these two decisions with actual action. There shall be good follow-up not only for families who adopt from abroad, until adoption, but also afterwards. It's often not today. We have noticed that the committee in the vote goes beyond the proposal in the proposal on the 16th anniversary of the adoption of the directive to inform who the biological parents are, and we have discussed this in the Centre Party. On the one hand, we see that the trend in some other, somewhat comparable areas is in a different direction, that children are entitled to co-destination and the right to know about relationships that concern themselves, while the Committee in the configuration argues that it may be a burden for 15-year-olds to know about relationships around their own family. We choose not to follow the government today, but we follow the attitude of the committee. We record that the Left has a proposal for a 16-year-old age limit. We are not going to support that proposal today, but this is what I believe must – and will be – be evaluated in the next few years. We think it's important that there is a right for survivors in the straight line to know the biological origin of a deceased adopted. We are also some of those who say that the length of the procedure for foreign adoptions should not be too long, and that one should not exceed 30 days. Then I had no suggestions to make, but it was.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3030	Adoption is also a nice way to create a family. There are so many children who need a safe and safe home, with good, safe adult adoptive parents who can provide security around a child's upbringing. So I think we're making a lot of good decisions here in this case, but I think we have to work even more to look at: are there bottlenecks that make unnecessary obstacles to being recognized as adoptive parents, or are there costs associated with what makes many people not looking at as an alternative? I mean, at least adoption is a great way to create a family. I am very happy that in this case we also got a lot of focus on this with follow-up after adoption. We had a hearing in the committee related to it, and we got a lot of good consultation answers on this very thing with follow-up. Thinking follow-up, especially in the case of foreign adopteds, is very important. It's quite right, as the representative Tønder says, that foreign-adopted children are their country's children's children, and we have to bear in mind that these are also children who have things with them through their lives that they need a close follow-up around. In Denmark, therefore, there is Post Adoption Service, in line with the 1997 Hague Convention. This may be something we need to consider creating in Norway as well. In any case, I am very pleased that an overall committee proposes that the Storting should ask the Government to assess the need for follow-up of adopted and families in line with Article 9 of the Hague Convention, where a model such as the Danish can be considered as an alternative, and then come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way. This was an important matter for several people who took part in the hearing, and I hope that we can set up such a low-threshold offer, such a service centre, a centre where it is easy to get in touch, and that we can set this up fairly quickly. So it's clear that one thing is to have a good follow-up of adoptive children, but this also applies to adoptive parents. We know it's a good follow-up before adoption, but after adoption, there's a big gap in following up adoptive parents. I think this is also something that we need to have stronger focus in the future. Therefore, a joint committee also proposes that the Stortinget ask the government to identify the need for follow-up after adoption. I am pleased that we have had this matter under consideration in the committee, and look forward to further work with a view to better facilitating even more people to view adoption as a good opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3041	The left is mainly attached to the proposal for a new adoption law and to follow up on the position of the Adoption Law Committee. This also applies at a point where the committee has not joined the proposal, namely where the department has proposed to reduce the age of adoptive children’s right to know who the original parents are — from 18 to 15 years of age, subject to appropriate guidance. We know that this was important for several of the organisations that took part in the hearing in the committee, and in the proposition there are also some counter-representations from some of these organisations, especially that there may be information in the adoption documents that might be an advantage to be a little more mature before you know anything more about it. But here the left child's rights are taken into account. We support the Adoption Law Committee, the Children's Ombudsman and Redd Barna and others. in terms of lowering the limit on the right of access, and we do not support the reversing of the government parties in this case. We assume that there is no obligation to share such information with young people who are not even asking for it. Since there is no proposal to lower the age limit to 15 years, we ourselves promote a proposal that is in line with the Left's programme, and thus want to lower the limit to 16 years. I therefore raise the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3048	The representative Iselin Nybø has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3053	I would like to thank you for a good debate and also for the thorough work done by the Committee. As many people have been involved, today's adoption law is over 30 years old, it's unwieldy and little systematic. Today, more conditions related to adoption and treatment are only covered by guidelines and practices. The new law legislates practices, makes the rules more accessible to users and can also contribute to greater non-discrimination. Solid investigation is the basis for the new adoption law. I would like to draw up several important amendments: The law provides for a provision to ensure that children are brought up safely by establishing a lasting legal relationship between the child and the adoptive parents. The adoption law shall be prohibited from remuneration or other benefit in order to affect any person who is required to consent to an adoption and the prohibition of remuneration in order to affect an adoption process or the outcome of an adoption case. Violation of these prohibitions can be punished. When the child protection service has taken care of a child and the child’s biological parents agree to the adoption, the adoption matter shall be dealt with in place of the Bufetat region. This provides increased legal certainty for biological parents and children. Adoptive children shall be provided with the necessary guidance when applying for access to their own adoption case and if the adopted child dies, offspring shall be provided with access to their original parents. The adoption authorities shall also be responsible for drawing up follow-up reports to the country of origin which so requires for up to three years after the child’s return. The proposal of the Committee on the Adoption of the Act on the adoption of stepchildren by surrogati is not followed up by the government because it may appear to be a legitimisation of surrogati. The Hague Conference on Private International Law is currently investigating rules in this area, and I want to wait for what they're going to do. I am pleased that the Committee supports the main part of the government's proposal for a new adoption law, but in some areas the committee wants other solutions, and the government is doing well. The Committee agrees that the procedure for foreign adoptions shall not exceed 30 days. The allocation of children in need of special support shall be dealt with by professional advisory bodies and then by the adoption authorities. I see that a time limit for dealing with such matters can be challenging, especially because under the new law we will have a two-step procedure, but I will of course work to follow this up. The Committee is also in favour of an authorisation framework for pre-consents for children up to five years of age. The government’s proposal was justified by the fact that the burden of care would normally be higher for older children and for more children and that applicants should be able to limit the application to younger children. But I also see today's adoption reality speaks for the committee's solution. The Committee does not wish to lower the age of transparency of adoptive children in their original parents from 18 to 15 years of age. The Government’s proposal was justified by the fact that from 15 years of age the adopted person is entitled to have access to the file under the Administrative Act, with the exception of information on who the original parents are. In addition, 15 years are the age limit for transparency under other laws, such as the Child Protection Act. However, the child’s maturity may mean that the 18-year limit of the day is maintained. The Committee proposes that the need for follow-up after adoption be identified and that further efforts be made to assess the need for follow-up of adopted persons and families in line with Article 9 of the Hague Convention. I also want to find good solutions to help adoptive families after adoption, and will, of course, follow up the Committee's proposals. The new law now adopted will contribute to greater predictability, equal treatment and better quality in adoption matters. The most important thing is that the best care is taken of the child in all adoption cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3090	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3095	The general proportion of adoptions is falling. Many countries have requirements for adoptive parents that Norway is not always able to meet. In our opinion, adoption under the Children’s Protection Act – which was also addressed by the Council of State – is not used often enough, even after we have had a decision in Stortingen that this should happen. What measures have the Council of State taken to facilitate the emergence of more foreign adoptions? What measures have been taken for adoption under the Child Protection Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3103	It's right, as the representative says, that the number of foreign adoptions has fallen. The most important thing we can do there is to cooperate with the adoption organisations to get more countries approved. But then we also have to be happy that several countries from which it was adopted have now gained a higher standard of living and are able to care for their children in a good enough way. It's hard to say exactly what I as the Council of State can go into and do in this area. The representative deals with adoption under the Child Protection Act. I am concerned that, in order to avoid taking care of our children as early as possible, we should be able to enable our parents to take care of their children. We have launched several measures to ensure that parents can have close and good follow-up as early as possible during pregnancy. Adoption is a final measure. Adoption should also be possible under the Children’s Protection Act — if that is what is best for the individual child.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3110	The Committee, on which the Councils of State were concerned, has been concerned that the adoptions should receive good follow-up. Several of these children are – as mentioned here – children of other countries. They often need more support and help with a ballast that may not have other children. Competence is needed on that. Therefore, the Committee has proposed that centres of expertise or similar should be considered in order to meet that need. The Council of State referred to the proposal for a decision in its statement. Can the Council of State say something more about how she sees that this can be solved in a good way – and quite quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3117	The proposal for a decision of the Committee is intended to clarify the follow-up to adoptive parents after adoption. It's important that we follow up. So it's important to stress that adoptive parents and adoptive children are as different as other families and children. When children come to Norway and are adopted, or they are born in Norway, they are entitled to health care, in line with all other children. What's a concern is the differences in the municipalities, in how this is handled. Families are entitled to help and support locally and from specialist health services. We need to make that clear in health legislation. That's why we're now working with counsellors for health professionals. We are also working to increase the responsibility of family protection, so that they can better follow up on these families. There are several things happening, but I will follow up the proposal for a decision that is available from the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3128	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3146	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3155	It is a great pleasure to be able to present a completely unanimous position without any proposals – either in the hall or in the ballot – that are different, and I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation on a good outcome. The aim of this bill has been to strengthen consumer rights and consumer protection. There are two main measures to do that. One is to ensure more effective enforcement of consumer protection rules, and the other is to clarify the role of the Consumer Ombudsman in supervision. It is important that there is a clear and good enforcement of consumer protection. Ensuring that a person is penalised in the event of a breach of the law is a prerequisite for the effectiveness of legislation. It will help to increase the preventative effect, and it will also contribute to a positive change in behaviour — which is good, of course. In addition, it is important that a follow-up of supervision is carried out in a clean and proper manner. The changes proposed here will help this area to be treated more as other areas. One will receive two appeals. We want to clarify the supervision as such, as the Consumer Ombudsman has today, therefore, the reason for a change in the name of the Consumer Ombudsman to the Consumer Authority. It is also important for the Market Council to work even more effectively, especially in a situation where we will have a clearer role to play in the second review process. Both new competence requirements are proposed and decisions can be taken by an denominator of three members and after written examination. Overall, these are legislative proposals that will help to strengthen consumers and consumers' rights. It will strengthen the legal certainty of traders through the access to justice, and it will help us to have a more coherent and comprehensive system.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3168	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3187	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Marianne Aasen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Marianne Aasen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 3, from Iselin Nybø on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4 and 5, from Iselin Nybø on behalf of the Left proposal No 6, from Kristin Vinje on behalf of Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to start work on setting up its own strategy for attracting skilled foreign degree students at master level.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3221	There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to issue a claim for relevant professional competence to all those who teach at universities and higher education institutions.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3238	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals to give all students of higher education the right to a professional supervisor who will accompany them through the course of study. The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3255	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a new student living conditions survey to ensure a good data base on, among others. Student living conditions, economics and housing situation.’» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3272	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Christian Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests an assessment of possible compensatory measures that may help to enable students who have completed professional studies abroad but who are not authorised in Norway as a result of a change in the practice of the Health Directorate after they have started the study at the relevant educational institution to obtain authorisation in Norway.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3288	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to determine how a mentoring system can be introduced in higher education on a step-by-step basis.’ The Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Left and the Left have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3305	The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3399	During the debate, two proposals have been put forward from Anders Tyvand on behalf of the Christian People's Party. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider introducing a total ceiling of 20 pst. for foreign students at the schools approved under Chapter 4 of the Adult Education Act, and to allow individual schools to apply for an allowance for foreign students within that ceiling.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3416	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that a regulation limiting the intake of applicants without permanent membership in Norway in schools approved under Chapter 4 of the Adult Education Act does not become too rigid.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3433	The Committee had decided to adopt such decisions:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3647	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3657	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B. The government is asking the government to examine the basis for the allocation of resources to specialist schools of health, as well as the division of responsibilities between the municipality of residence and each free school in order to ensure genuine equal treatment of pupils.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3678	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Christian Thinning Bjørnø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Christian Thinning Bjørnø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Left proposal No 5, from Anders Tyvand on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 6-12, from Iselin Nybø on behalf of the Left First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 7-12, from the left. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote the cause of the Storting with an assessment of how the State can help to reflect increased demands on teachers at pay levels and how the State can contribute to providing concrete pay outcomes for continuing training and continuing training.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government, in cooperation with interested parties, is asked to draw up a plan for the extension of the continuing training offer for teachers, so that, inter alia, the social, KRLE and natural sciences, as well as subjects which can enhance the competence of ICT education, guidance and special education, can become a real offer for more teachers and, as part of this, assess the phase-in of the qualification requirements of relevant subjects.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider increasing the country’s share of the cost of continuing training so that the teacher is fully compensated for working time’.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess alternative models of the right and obligation to continue training for teachers and to provide such an assessment in the context of the State budget for 2018.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a plan to reduce school bureaucracy by 25 pst. so that the teacher can have more time for each individual student.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the protection of the teacher’s title by introducing a certification scheme for teachers in consultation with stakeholders in the school sector, to be seen in the context of the right and obligation to exercise competence.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3739	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide measures to facilitate the development of several university schools.’ The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3756	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to abolish the requirement of grade 4 or better in mathematics from secondary education for admission to teacher training and to engage in dialogue with the players in the school and education sectors in order to draw up an entry regulation less related to a specific professional character.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3773	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government, as part of the work on career paths, is asked to introduce a new level of education, ‘Ph.D. teacher’, for educational staff in the school community, which can be followed up in the contract work between the social partners.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3788	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take a national initiative to clean up red tape, reporting and routines that can focus from core tasks to schools, rather than to impose flat areas on municipalities and schools independently of local authorities’ own efforts to ensure effective and appropriate schooling and development.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with an overview of how the new skills requirements have turned out in school, including an overview of how many teachers are still in need of more skills to meet the new skills requirements by the 2025 deadline.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3811	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government, in cooperation with interested parties, is asked to draw up an overall plan for the development of the provision of continuing training in all areas of the school’s professional and competence in order to improve the ability of teachers to fill their skills.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3851	It's going to go over I first. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it. The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. The left has notified subsidiary support to the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3869	It shall be counted against II. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3885	It's said over III. The right, the centre party and the Green Party have announced support for the vote. The left has notified subsidiary support to the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3899	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3916	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Arild Grande on behalf of the Workers' Party, the proposals No 3 and 4, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party, First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals for the new funding of the NRK based on a household tax that continues the NRK’s entitlement to deduction of input VAT. The financing model shall provide for small households and have a social device through graduated rates, and is required by the NRC.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3941	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to make the following change to the NRK poster so that § 9 becomes applicable: the NRK shall reflect the geographical shortage in Norway and have a good local supply. The NRC shall be present in all counties in such a way that the district offices will mainly produce content directed towards the region concerned and so that the use of resources for production directed at a national audience does not go beyond the district mission.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3956	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to investigate and propose new funding for the NRC. Funding should ensure the legitimacy of the NRK in the population, support the independence of the NRK, and be robust and forward-looking. It must provide predictability for both the NRK and the licensee. The case is being promoted for Stortinget by the end of March 2018. The model shall contain the following general principles: The licence shall be required by the NRK itself and the scheme shall ensure the deduction of VAT, the independence of the NRK and the environment of competence at the Licensing Office in Mo i Rana. Better social profile than today's licensing system. Ensure financial predictability of NRK with compensation for price and salary growth.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3981	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked not to assess NRK’s government budget financing.’ The centre party has announced that they will support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e3998	The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e4044	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Mr Jørgen Bekkevold on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In Law No 4 December 1992 127 on broadcasting and audiovisual ordering services, the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 3-2 shall be replaced by the following: Advertising on a shared screen shall only be permitted in direct mails which do not contain interruptions.’;» The President noted that this proposal replaced proposal No. 1 in the settings. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e4148	The first paragraph of Section 3-2, new second sentence, is added. The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will subsidize the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e4170	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e4180	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e4189	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Sonja Mandt on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party the proposals No 6-9, by Sonja Mandt, on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 10, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Center Party proposal No 12, from Abid Q. Raja on behalf of Left The President noted that proposal No. 9 replaces proposal No. 5 in the vote, so that proposal No. 5 goes away. Proposal 11, by the Socialist Left Party, was not made. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Ten, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a comprehensive and step-by-step fully funded child protection reform for task transfers to municipalities, which are earmarked for the escalation phase. This child protection reform shall: ensure the quality and competence of child protection and the development of relief measures on the basis of which the best interests of children are based; based on the experience gained in the pilot scheme of new responsibilities in the protection of children between the municipality and the state, the Children's Violence Committee and the NOU on foster home care ensure a funding system based on the choice of actions for individual children based on the best and professional judgements of the child, not on the basis of financial incentives and the municipality's economy; ensure that current state responsibilities for recruitment, training and general guidance of foster homes are transferred to municipalities and intercommunal cooperation, when local authorities have built up their competences and resources to do so; ensure that the provision of institutional services, emergency measures, emergency shelters, specialised foster homes and the investigation of infants and young children are still at a specialised level and that the county council will in the long term assume the regional responsibility of Bufetat; statutory that the child protection service should always assess whether someone in the close family or close network of the child can be selected as a foster home; introduce a principle of subsidiarity in the field of child protection in line with Document 8:38 S [[2016-2017]] strengthen children’s access to basic health services in both primary and specialist health services, in line with Document 8:39 S, ensure that child protection services are mainly provided by public and private non-profit institutions with long-term contracts and that the use of competitive outsourcing and offers in the child protection sector is terminated’;» [[2016-2017]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e4247	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with a comprehensive review of the Child Protection Act.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e4264	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government requests the maintenance of the current tariff system in respect of the payment of an institution’. Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The government is asked to introduce partial price differentiation in the case of institutional payments.» The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e4286	There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review the scope of private providers in child protection matters and to take measures to prevent the same provider from being the investigator, the case handler and the owner of the institution.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e4302	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a review of the rules on child protection tenders and for the submission of guidelines on quality assurance, control and restrictions on withdrawals to private operators.’;» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e4319	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: «The size of the budget asks the government to review the rules governing child protection tenders, including the provision of quality assurance and verification guidelines.» The Greens have given their support to the proposal. The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e4338	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government requests the maintenance of the current system for general home guidance.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to review the appeals of biological parents in taking care of them and to assess solutions that ensure the peace and stability of the children and to return to the Storing in an appropriate manner during 2017.’ The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e4361	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to ensure that a child protection reform as outlined in Prop. 73 L must be fully financed.’ [[2016-2017]] The Right, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal. It's only the Central Party that has to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e4512	The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e4524	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e4538	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e4562	The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e4578	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Central Party. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government requests the introduction of a principle of subsidiarity in the protection of children which gives children in child protection a legal right to offer close to the child’s home and which prevents the long-term movement of children as long as it is not for the child’s best’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a principle of subsidiarity in child protection that limits the number of times a single child can be moved between different child protection measures.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that only measures for children in child-restraint institutions are not taken, unless in exceptional cases the best interests of the child are considered.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e4625	A total of two proposals have been put forward during the debate, by Mr Q. Raja on behalf of the Left. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce competence requirements for child-restraint workers.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to launch a five-year integrated clinical child protection education and training scheme to meet thecompetence requirements.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e4667	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Hege Haukeland Liadal on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 4, from Hege Haukeland Liadal on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 5, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Storting to introduce a public debt register.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e4696	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of point (b) of Section 12 of the Data Protection Act shall be replaced by the following: local authority, in the context of the examination of an application for a start-up loan or an application for a change of terms and conditions for a start-up loan and individual financial advice.’;» The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e4715	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 1 of the Information Act shall be replaced by the following: § 1 Purpose of the Law The purpose of the Act is to facilitate the safe, orderly and efficient recording and disclosure of debt data in order to contribute to improving credit ratings, to provide individuals with an overview of their own debt and to prevent debt problems.» The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e4736	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to investigate and promote a legislative proposal for a portal-based service.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal. The Central Party and the Left Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e4755	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to investigate the possibility of imposing a ceiling on interest rates and to return to the Storting on a case to this effect’. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e4773	The Committee had decided to adopt such decisions by the Stortinge:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e5084	It is quoted above A § 12, first paragraph, point (b). The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Environment Party The Greens have announced that they subsidly support the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e5096	The remainder of A and all remaining paragraphs are added.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e5107	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e5117	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B. The government is asking the government to evaluate the scheme of national debt information and to return to the Stortinget with a case to this effect no later than two years after the establishment of the chosen system.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e5137	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Iselin Nybø on behalf of the Left. The Committee had decided to adopt such decisions by the Stortinge:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e5794	It is votered over A § 7 The Christian People’s Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e5808	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Act of Adoption, the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 39 shall be replaced by the following: An adopted child who has reached the age of 16 has the right to be informed by the adoption authority of the original parents.’; [[the adoption law;]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e5823	The first sentence of the first paragraph of paragraph 39 above the capital letter A. The left has notified subsidiary support to the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e5835	The remainder of A, all remaining Roman numerals and paragraphs are voried over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e5845	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e6239	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e6249	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-07.ana.ud558e6264	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
