ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e164	The representative, Jorod Asphjell, who has been on leave, has once again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Akershus County: Anne Odenmarck and Thore Vestby For the county of Hordaland: Gunnar Bakke For Eastfold County: Tone Damsleth
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e194	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sylvi Graham. – Other proposals are not available, and Sylvi Graham is unanimously elected as President-in-Office of the current sitting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e216	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the party groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to five lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e229	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on this matter as well. We have also had a rather hectic time this spring with many major issues in the committee, late Thursday, when we discussed both municipal reform, regional reform and new tasks for the municipalities. I would also like to thank the committee secretary and the secretariat, or the Stortinget, who has been as hectic as we are, but still provided what we need, so that we can provide the Stortinget with the options. Municipalities are important. It showed the commitment and debate in the Chamber on Thursday, and the municipalities of Norway manage – on behalf of taxpayers – a significant part of the economic resources of the Norwegian economy. There is a broad consensus in Norway that the municipal sector has an important role as a foundation for the Norwegian welfare community. The municipalities represent both proximity, belongings and the possibility of influence for the inhabitants. The municipalities have played this important role since 1837, which I was reminded of on Thursday, and to a greater and greater extent, the municipalities have played an important role for our citizens. In each of the posts I have kept about the communication proposition during this four-year period, I have brought a little greeting to what was said about us before the 2013 elections. Because there was no way how bad it would go if we got a new government in 2013. Fortunately, we did so, and fortunately for Kommune-Noreg, because when we now look at the fasitium, when we look at what results have been delivered from government and the bulk of the population to the municipal sector, not only in terms of increased trust, but also in terms of increased economic space and more money, we see that the fasitium is a completely different from the description given by the former municipal minister and other representatives from the red-green parties, who thought it was going to go wrong with Kommune-Noreg with a Right-front party government. Now we have had it for four years, and it has rarely been such a good four-year period for Norwegian municipalities, nor financially. The number of municipalities at ROBEK is always a good indication, and during this summer, a number of municipalities will leave the ROBEK list because of the record-breaking result in 2016, which has made them freshly reported. At the end of this period we have never had fewer municipalities in the ROBEK register, and there is significantly fewer at the elections in 2017 than it was at the elections in 2013. There's a very good indication that things are going well in Kommune-Noreg. In this municipal proposition, much is said, but a repetition of the municipal proposition debates has been the key to the county councils on boat and ferry. It is perhaps the single element of the income system of the county councils that has been most debated in this proposition, and I am very pleased that it has come up with a good solution, which both gives a new and better key for the boat also a new and more equitable key for the ferry, which allocates money to county municipalities more based on the costs of the individual connections, and not as today, where there is a equal sum for all the connections. In addition to that, I am very pleased that the government has found room to prioritise the ferry fleet with 100 million. extra, fresh kroner for the ferry companies to capture the large cost growth they experience when they have new offers. We know that the committee has been very clear in the past that we need to update the keys more quickly so that we can capture cost differences and increase the expenses that the county receives. These 100 million people come to the top and in addition, just to recognise that the boat and ferry counties have a special challenge, in particular that new environmental and security requirements – in addition to the fact that the population and industry expect a standard increment – make the supply more expensive. I could say a lot about this policy, but I don't think I can beat the chairman of the county in Møre and Romsdal, Jon Aasen, who says, "It's so good that it's almost too good to be true." I think I'm going to join the words to mention the bet on the ferries that we've now got. When we first change the key in the ferry sector, it also plays into the arrangements we have on the ferry release project, in which this committee has committed itself to a lot. When we started, there was a scheme that no one had benefited from, because she was too bad. We then expanded it into debt for 40 years, and now the planning and involvement of the county councils is large. Many people are eager to use the system to replace a ferry with a bridge or tunnel. We know that Ålø i Sogn and Fjordane work well and will be realized. More and Romsdal have the project that may have come farthest, and will search right in the New Year. But also in my home country, there are a lot of projects that you are now working on. They find that the new key will give them less money next year if they search then. This makes a series of projects in Hordaland a little bit urgent, because if they're looking this year, they're going to have a completely different financial system than if they're looking for next year. There are several, such as Lerøy, Bjelkarøy, Masfjord and new roads to Huglo and Fjellberg. There is a comment from the Committee that if they have an application within the Ministry in 2017, there will be a positive contribution to the 2017 level. This means that there is a little bit of a hurry in Hordaland, and maybe other places too, to get an application this year, and I hope the government will be flexible with a view to having a dialogue with the county councils and municipalities that it owes, in order to land that case. In particular, I think that one has both external quality assurance and a regulatory plan as a requirement, so one must be flexible with regard to landing, so that the intention of joining the scheme in 2017 is followed for those for whom it is relevant. In the hearing that we had related this matter, there was one thing that often went back from the county councils, and that was the level of county road maintenance. One wanted more money for the county road, and then it's very good that this government has taken that signal a long time ago and strengthened the county road effort by over 1 billion. kr during this period. That's what we hear when we visit business, that's one thing they say to us: give us more money so we can get our goods out on the markets. In this period, we have given priority to road and regional development a little down, but, seeing a total of it, we have strengthened road traffic significantly more than we have reduced regional development. It also corresponds to the feedback that we get that trafficking is the most important thing. We will also strengthen the municipal economy for the next year, so that the municipalities will be able to prioritise. We also show that municipalities can operate more efficiently. It is important to say that they can not only strengthen their services by getting more money from us – what they get – they also need to focus on efficient operations and free up their own money in that way. There is a description of an analysis in the proposal that will provide an important basis for the municipalities. In addition, I recommend the website of the department, which is very simple for individual municipalities to go in and see how they operate in relation to others. If a lot of time focuses on learning from and reaching out for the best, we can see that there is a great potential in Kommune-Noreg to run smarter and more efficiently and thus get even better services. For a Progress Party man, it is a bit annoying to see that we set down the taxes in the 20 billion krona class, and then red-green politicians in the municipalities turn up the property tax at the same time as we have strengthened the municipal economy enormously and one has not taken out the efficiency potential that lies in the municipalities. It's frightening to see the growth we've witnessed, and to see examples from individual municipalities like Bodø, taxing small children's families in the 30,000 to 40,000-kronar classes every year, so that they can no longer afford to have children in kindergarten. There is something wrong when municipalities have to tax citizens so heavily that they cannot participate in the core provision of a municipality. Local politicians need to focus more on picking up efficiency gains on their own rather than taxing citizens. I hope we can focus more on that in the future. In any case, the municipality scheme for 2018 provides that municipalities can provide good services – without one having to send the bill to the residents for lack of efficiency. With this option, I recommend setting which represents the Progress Party. I also remind you that in the setting there is a suggestion about Finnmark and Troms that Stortinget voted over Thursday, so I expect that it is not relevant to do it once more today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e254	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e259	I noticed that the chairman of the Committee of the Progressive Party did not mention the care of the elderly in one word. It is quite alarming, because before the 2013 election, the leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, said that it should not be on money. It could ‘cost what it would’ to repair the care of the elderly. For almost four years, the Progress Party and Siv Jensen have been running the money bag in the government and have been responsible for financing the care of the elderly in Norway. During this period, the government has cut taxes by more than 20 billion. kr, so that Christen Sveaas has received 2.7 million. kr in the gift from the government and Øystein Stray Spetalen almost 7 million. kr, according to Evening Post 15 October last year. And new tax cuts are announced in the next period. Does the Progress Party believe that everything is in the care of the elderly, since tax cuts have been given priority over the care of the elderly, and since the representative Njåstad did not find any reason to mention one of the most important tasks of the municipalities in his contribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e266	It is unlikely that the Labour Party will be able to talk about those who create jobs in Norway as if they have received a gift. I think that this room should be happy that there are private companies that create jobs, and rather acknowledge that an important reason why we can spend money on schools, care for the elderly and kindergartens is that one has some founders and business people who create jobs. I would like to talk a lot about care for the elderly, but I tend to get a minute to follow up in the reply to the question about care for the elderly. I think it's quite unlikely that the Labour Party again criticizes us for not making money to consult, when that's exactly what we've done with the trial scheme that almost no municipalities run by the Workers' Party applied for. Then one had what the representative Pedersen asks, that it should not be on the money, because the money comes when the need is there. I am very happy to see the follow-up of the project. I register that in the municipality of Os in my home state there is good feedback on the test system. And we're going to follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e273	There is reason to recall that neither the Right and Advance Party-led municipalities have been in a queue to state the care of the elderly, which is the major performance project of the Advance Party. I would like to remind you that the tax cuts policy of the Progress Party is not working at all. We have the highest unemployment rate in 30 years, and the employment rate falls with this government. I also want to show that the collection of property taxes has increased by 30 pst. during this period. It was while the Right Party and the Advance Party continued to run the Bergen, that they began to reintroduce the property tax there. In Bodø, as the representative himself mentioned, the Progress Party has aged its provisions with property taxes. Then my question is: how does the representative Njåstad think that the care of elderly people in Norway would have been affected by the removal of the 12 billion property taxes that both Labour Party and Right and Advance Party-led municipalities in Norway require?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e280	There are very few Progress Party-driven municipalities that have property taxes. Those who have it have inherited it from their predecessors, and they are chosen to clean up an economic situation. We can talk a lot about the mountains. There the property tax was reintroduced to take a school run, which I think the Labour Party should feel that they have a lot of responsibility for, since they have run the city for very many years. It is not the case that the schools started to fall due only after the 2003 elections. In Bodø there is a big difference between the moderate level of property tax that was when the Progress Party and the Right ruled the city, and the level that we see today, where small children families tell us that they get $40,000 a year in the bill. I don't think anyone wants to know at such a level. Therefore, I refer to my main post and what I say about efficiency improvement. The local authorities can drive smarter. They can learn from the 70 municipalities that manage without taxes on their property. Elder care is very good in many of them. Then it is not said that we should cut out the property tax without taking other measures, such as strengthening the municipal economy further, as we have done for four years already.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e289	The Progress Party has required municipalities to remove the municipal property tax because they received good results in 2016 as a result of increased tax revenues. It is clear that the 6 billion in additional tax dollars are due to the conversion of the dividend tax to a limited liability company. Very many benefited from increased dividends this year in order to reduce tax incentives. This was not the result of the government’s economic structure, but – as it says in the proposition, and as the government itself says – ‘adapts to the tax reform of private taxpayers’, and they are ‘mainly of one-off character’. The government itself adjusted the tax revenue for 2017 by 850 million. kr. KS indicated that the strong growth in tax revenue is decreasing and that the beginning of April 2017 was 10 pst. lower than the previous year. Despite these facts about the decline in the tax entrance, does the Progress Party believe that municipalities should act as if the tax growth would continue in 2016 and that the revenue they received last year will continue until next year? What is the Progress Party that the Council of States does not know?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e294	It is true that in 2016, parts of the good result – the record result – are due to changes in company tax and exchange tax differentials, which have led to more than one exchange in 2016. That's part of the answer, but that's not the whole answer. That this was a good result, also because we were investing in the municipal economy in the proposition a year ago, and because the municipalities have been good at not spending all the money they have received, which means that it was probably just a handful of municipalities that went with a deficit in 2016, while over 400 municipalities went with a surplus. Then we think it's quite appropriate to be able to address that it's a little too much eager to introduce property taxes and increase property taxes that red-green politicians have had in recent years. Here, he can set it down and take out the efficiency gains this year with a good community economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e299	The government's warning in the proposition that this is ‘mainly one-off’, I perceive as a warning to the municipalities that this must be put into operation, because they incur future costs that will not be paid for next year. Does the representative of Njåstad think that there is a misassessment by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e305	No, I don't think it's a government misassessment. What municipalities have to do when creating a budget is to assess the revenue they will receive for the next year, based on this municipal proposal and based on what they consider that the level of expenditure and the level of income will be in each municipality. After all, there are no councillors budgeting from last year and not begs for what is in the government budget and the municipal budget. I am sure that there is room to reduce the tax on ownership in Norwegian municipalities if one is willing to do so. There's very little will for it in red-green municipalities, I see. You see it as a right municipality to tax the inhabitants. There's something we have to address clearly, and especially this year, when we're giving more money to the municipalities. And so do we next year. No mention is made of the fact that 2018 is becoming harder to budget than 2017 for Norwegian municipalities, for this government and this big crowd with the Christian People's Party and Left have strengthened the municipal economy significantly. Then we must be clear that the tax on property must be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e312	Some of the values that the batches represent show up in how they spend money. SV has always spent much more money on the local economy than the Progress Party has done, and that is because, among other things, we. are concerned with care for the elderly, while the Progress Party spends its money on tax relief, which has not provided any jobs. More private jobs were created when the red-greens were put, than now. One of the things for which the Progress Party is the most intense promoters is the outsourcing of welfare services and care for the elderly. One of the so-called efficiency gains is that help nurses, cleaners and other heroes in the care of the elderly go into retirement, while income is given to private companies, which also often set sail in tax havens. Does the representative Mr Njåstad of the Progress Party really think that help nurses and cleaners have too good pay and for good pension?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e319	It's not right, as Karin Andersen says, that SV always spends more money than we do on municipal economy. The years they put in government, they spent less money than we did. The reason is probably not SV, but the Labour Party and the Center Party, which had a greater influence on the politics of that government. Competitive exposure is a tool that is healthy for municipalities to use in different fields. I note that SV now has a great allergy to competition exposure in some sectors, while they cooperated with us on kindergarten, it was quite good that we got private help to get the child hail that we needed, and that we have been happy with the later years. Then it was okay. When we're going to build roads and other things, it's okay. But in some service areas, you can make a number out of that competition is very unhealthy. I refer to private sector pension schemes as the vast majority of those in Norway have, and there are good pension schemes. I think that all the heroes, both helpers and reindeers, are fastening the pay they have, but they may also be competitive, because then we get better services for the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e328	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e333	The Labour Party has high ambitions for the welfare society of the future. We want more people to be at work. We want more people who want it to have children's playgrounds. We believe that there is a need for more early school effort. We need to improve the capacity and quality of care for the elderly in order to provide them with decent care to meet the individual’s needs. In order to achieve this, the economy of municipalities must be strengthened. The government's financial arrangements for next year are not good enough. The economic space for expanding capacity and strengthening the quality of key welfare areas is little in the government's proposal. The government does not prepare the municipalities well enough for the promise that has to be made in the coming years, to apply new technology, recruit, retain and further train employees and to upgrade the building stock in the care of the elderly. The Labour Party prioritises school and care. We are therefore proposing to strengthen the income of the local government sector by between 2 and 3 billion. kr in addition to the government’s plans in 2018. Within this growth, municipalities will have room to strengthen school and care and to increase pedagogical coverage in kindergartens and to strengthen public health and prevent mental health. For county municipalities there is a great need for upgrading the county road network and the need for more money for public transport and boat and ferry routes. One third of our municipal structure must therefore go to the county councils in order to be able to carry out the tasks they have in transport, while at the same time fulfilling their responsibilities for higher education and better implementation. How can we sum up the municipal economy after nearly four years with the Right and the Advance Party in government? After four years with the Right and the Advance Party, the growth of total municipal income is lower than with the red-green government. After four years with the Right and Advance Party in government, the growth of free income is lower than with the Red-Green Government. The government makes poor financial arrangements for the municipalities, and in particular the county municipalities, which neither meet the challenges of our welfare society nor the requirements of the Stortinget to the municipalities. After four years with the Right and Advance Party in government, employment growth in the municipal sector is lower than with the red-green government. The government does not allow municipalities to employ enough kindergarten assistants, teachers, nurses and caregivers or to provide enough time for the employees in their everyday lives. After four years with the Right Party and the Advance Party in the Government, the municipalities charge a record lot of property taxes. Despite the fact that one of the government parties opted to prohibit municipalities from levying property taxes, this happens. Four years ago, when the Right Party and the Advance Party wanted to be in government, Siv Jensen made the following promise to care for the elderly: "It cannot be on the money. It gets to cost whatever it wants. I don't have the conscience to sit and watch the elderly country around not washing ourselves, going to do or eat when they need it." After four years with the Right and Advance Party in the government, we have the fasitivity: Although the government has spent record oil money – 100 billion new billion – it has been on the money in the care of the elderly. I guess it couldn't cost what it would, anyway. Large tax cuts for those who have the most were more important than enabling municipalities to expand quality and capacity in the care of the elderly. We see that individuals who have invested in the election campaign of the Right Party and the Advance Party have received tax cuts of up to 10 million. kr per person. Think of what a single municipality could have created by care of the elderly if they had received a corresponding lifting from the government. It is no wonder that the Chairman of the Committee of the Progressive Party is trying to avoid the issue of care for the elderly when local economy is on the agenda of the Stortinget. Every year during this ageing period, the Labour Party has prioritised more money for the municipal sector than for the government and the majority of the population, so that municipalities can equip the care for the elderly, to enable municipalities to invest more in schools and kindergartens, as well as for county municipalities to assume their responsibility for transport and secondary education. That's actually what the election in September is about: should we continue the course that this government has taken, that the big money is spent on the big billionaires, or should we choose another course, where we spend the big money on our big, common tasks? Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e368	The representative Helga Pedersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e375	I record that the representative Pedersen believes that there has been lower growth in the free income of the municipalities now than under the previous government. We could – almost – be two more. In any case, the Labour Party notes that the government ‘has provided a weak financial structure for the municipal sector’. However, when we talk about growth in the municipal sector, the figures show that the real growth rate in the free income of the municipal sector per capita — which must be a relevant figure to compare with — was 0.6 pst. the eight years the working party crashed, and at 1,2 pst. from 2013 to 2016. How can the Workers' Party claim that the economic environment is weak when the real growth in free income during this period has been higher than in previous years? It's 1.2 pst. real growth in free income per capita above or below 0,6 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e384	I record that the Right seems to be more concerned with rhetoric than with the content of the policy. The calculator is used to try to find straw that can produce the right municipal structure in a more advantageous way than it really is. What Frank J. Jensen here points to is the result of population growth falling during this period. When you compare the red-green government period with today's government, there is no doubt that both the total and the free revenues have fallen under this government. There is probably also a reason why municipalities have increased property tax by 30-40 pst. Several of the municipalities of the Right and Advance Party have gone to the head and said that without the property tax they would not have been able to pay for the care of the elderly. Employment growth in municipalities has also fallen sharply.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e391	I can thank the representative Pedersen for talking about the Progress Party for 4 minutes of the article and about the Workers' Party for 49 seconds. This may show that the focus is more on criticising others than on talking about their own policies. However, I should like to ask a question about their own policies, and then about care for the elderly, which has clearly been very topical in the Labour Party. I registered that the Evening Post had a case about the Torgeir Micaelsen, who led an internal AP selection, and who summed up the red-green period in this way: ‘The active substances have not been strong enough. We haven't reached the targets we set. And there is too much difference between municipalities in the care of the elderly." The Labour Party's health policy spokesman, Torgeir Micaelsen, also says: ‘Ap takes self-criticism after eight years of red-green governance and proposes new instruments in older people’. My question to Pedersen is: Is she in agreement with the Micasen that care for the elderly was not better in the eight red-green years?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e408	Torgeir Micaelsen did not say that care for the elderly did not improve in the eight red-green years, because it did. That's exactly why we prioritised strengthening the local economy with tens of billions of dollars while we were in government. This is also why we prioritised enabling municipalities to employ more than 8 000 new people each year – a figure that has sunk to around 5000 during the current government. We recognise that there are still large, unresolved tasks in the care of the elderly, and that Norway faces formidable challenges in the next few years when it comes to recruiting and retraining enough people, and when it comes to using welfare technologies that can help more people to live at home anymore – and not least to equip existing building masses, which today’s government does not want to do. That's why, throughout this period, we've proposed more money to the municipalities every year. That's what we'll do next year, because good care for the elderly is more important than tax cuts and tens of millions of individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e415	Today we take the municipal economy for 2018. The working party may be placed in an important position in this way. Now we have heard the use of oil money being criticised, and they criticise the use of tax credits. At the same time, the Workers' Party promises a better community economy, better care for the elderly, more for roads and others. Then my question is quite simply: can I hear a little about how the tax policy of the Workers' Party is intended for 2018? I believe that the work is well under way with either an alternative budget or a main budget, so simply: the tax policy of the Workers' Party for 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e421	Firstly, unfortunately, unlike the Christian People's Party, we have gone against 20 billion. kr in tax cuts given during this period, because we believe care for the elderly is the most important. We are also going to choose to increase taxes because we still believe that care for the elderly and school is much more important than millions of gifts to the nation's very richest people. We've seen that Stray Spätalen has got seven million. kr in tax cuts from this government, someone has got even more. Think of what the Tuskedal municipality and my municipality could do with just 3-4 million. kr more for care of the elderly. The way for the Workers' Party is clear, and I hope that the Christian People's Party too will choose school and care over tax cuts in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e426	It's always interesting to look back. There is no doubt that the municipal structure has been better than the previous four years. That's enough. Back to care for the elderly, which the representative would like to talk about, and which is also a very important topic – not least for the local economy. Most of us know that it's also about competence in municipalities, and not least in the smallest municipalities. The representative Pedersen has been eager to bring about a strong community merger around the country, precisely to improve the competence of elderly care, not least in home-based care and everything in primary care. Then it's a little strange and surprising when you draw up that theme today, that you haven't been willing to look at what you could do in the municipalities if you got more and more robust units. It is also linked to good care in the municipalities. Doesn't the representative agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e433	This representative fully agrees, and that is why the Workers' Party has also been involved in community mergers where there is a need for it, and where there is local support for it. What we've gone against is coercion. I don't think the municipalities that were now combined with coercion will determine the sustainability of the welfare society or collapse. The proper structure is important, but we also need to finance the content of the structure that has now been adopted. Unfortunately, it's not like this, although some municipal mergers have now been adopted, that there are a lot of health professionals and teachers who are willing to come and work for the municipalities free of charge. They need more colleagues, and they need their pay. In order to enable the municipalities to get those people into the municipal sector, we propose to strengthen the municipal economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e438	The representative was concerned about the care of the elderly, and that is also right. As a former local politician, I experienced that with the Workers' Party in position a sick home was laid down. When the Right took over in 2011, the hospital quickly reopened, despite the need for municipal economy after eight years of red-green government. At the turn of government in 2013, the local economy was strengthened, and the state share in the construction of hospitals increased, so that, among other things, My municipality could quickly start planning a new nursing home. Does this not show that there is a right-wing policy, both local and national, that gives older people a boost?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e443	It's actually completely wrong. Under the red-green government, municipalities in Norway received more money than under today's government. The government's own numbers show that. In addition, the government has implemented the income system in such a way that the largest municipalities in Finnmark lose out on it. There will always be variations from year to year, but the Workers' Party has invested more money to municipalities every year. Alta would get significantly more money if the Workers' Party had been able to make an impact on its local authorities, and we will, of course, strengthen the local economy and the local authorities' ability to expand the care of the elderly if we come into government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e448	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e453	For the fourth time, the right has the joy of being part of the majority who, through the municipal proposition, defines an important framework for the activities of Kommune-Norway. For four years in a row, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have defined growth ambitions for the local economy. Growth has been good, and we have taken steps to strengthen local democracy and the ability of local authorities to do the important job they have. Compared to many other countries, Norwegian municipalities have large and relevant tasks. This is how we want it to be, and it has broad political support, because important welfare services are best addressed by municipalities that can see the tasks in context and that have the ability to prioritize resources locally, based on what is best in each community. Last week we had a thorough debate on how the municipalities themselves must also look at how best to handle their basic legal tasks in the future. It won't be fewer, but more, tasks in the future. There will be no less responsibility, there will be more responsibility, for the municipalities in the future. There will be no lower, but higher, quality of service requirements in the future. Municipalities are required to provide more, more important and more complex welfare services with an ever higher quality for future schoolchildren, child-rescue children, nurturing and others. The challenges facing many municipalities today, in other words, do not pass, and therefore the municipal reform was started – with good results so far. For the second year in a row, it looks as if in 2016, as in 2015, we get a record year purely financial for the municipal sector. This is due to increasing transfers over the state budget, due to additional tax revenue and the fact that many municipalities are well governed, which they should be commended for. For 2018, the free income of municipalities continues to grow between 3,8 and 4,3 billion. kr. This government has delivered more growth in the local economy than in the previous government. All the terror propaganda from the left is put to shame. The growth of the local economy is aimed at ensuring knowledge in schools, the quality of health services and the strengthening of the social security network. The action space has been more purely economic in the period 2014-2018 compared to the previous period, and throughout the ageing period we have secured the municipalities a good and predictable economy. We're also going into 2018. Within the 2018 growth period, we continue to strengthen the escalation plan for the drug field and provide more early work in kindergarten and school and prevention for children, young people and families. The government has made a significant contribution to health and school health services. Hundreds of new health sisters and midwives have emerged, and there is a positive trend in the number of yearly jobs in health and school health services. There is also an increase in the number of pre-school and first-class students receiving a health survey. This shows that we are on the right track and that municipalities are taking health promotion and prevention work seriously for pregnant women, children and young people and their families. The ferries are a year of life along the coast, and we give the counties the opportunity to provide better transport services to both residents and businesses. We propose a new cost key for 2018 and at the same time strengthen the financing of the boat and ferry sector by 100 million. kr. A total of three years of travel appropriations has been increased from 40 billion. kr to over 60 brd. kr, and the maintenance run is reduced at last. In the current period, it is also granted over SEK 4.4 billion. kr to enable county councils to restate and renew the county road network – in 2017 the budget is 1.3 billion. kr. And the effort continues massively in a new national transport plan. On the North Sea, there's a municipality where they've been wanting to be drones ever since the end of the war. Rindal is far from the same football circuit and hospitals as trotters, most of them walking on the pole, do it at Orkanger, they have Trondheim as their city and Værnes as their airport. It is a unanimous committee that asks the government to facilitate that Rindal, as soon as it is practicable, can become part of the Trondelag, where they are also warmly welcomed. This will be my last big debate on the municipal proposition. As a tough champion – throughout my political life – for Norwegian municipalities, local self-government and less state control, it has been a great pleasure to note that all these four municipal propositions have contributed to the development in and for Kommune-Norge, which has given us good financial results, which have given us freer municipalities with more autonomy, and which have given us more important municipalities with more responsibility for important services to the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e474	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e479	In the last four years, the right has been very quiet in terms of changes in the tax equalisation of the municipal income system. With that, the Right has run from its promises in the previous period that tax-rich municipalities would retain more of their own tax revenues and that municipalities would receive a share of the corporation tax. Can we expect that the Right will do something about the tax equalization between municipalities in the next period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e484	We have made important changes in the income system and have had a good process on it. My opinion is that we have a robust and quite good income system, but that from time to time needs revisions, and we have now had that in my opinion. I made a point that this was my last debate. I can't say what's going to happen in this room in the next four years, since I'm not going to be part of it, but I think what you're going to see, and what the Municipality of Norway will continue to see, is predictability from the Right – predictability by providing a good financial framework. Changes in the income system shall be well-established and well-established. I am sure that we will also contribute in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e491	Yes, it is difficult to predict the future, as the representative Jensen is quite right about it. The representative Jensen, in his contribution, boasts strongly about the growth of the local economy – there has never been more money, etc., etc. – but we see that many municipalities have introduced property taxes. Eidsberg is one example. They had to introduce this tax now from New Year, in order to avoid what is referred to as the closest stop. We hear from the government partner Progress Party that it is not necessary to introduce property taxes. Does the Right agree with the government colleague Progress Party – does Eidsberg impose an unnecessary tax on its citizens? What will Right Frank J. Jenssen correspond to, for example, The municipality of Eidsberg, which had to introduce this property tax now from the new year in order to avoid what the rapporteur in Eidsberg calls a standstill?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e499	I do not know the local economy in Eidsberg specifically, or why the economic situation there is such that the local government believes they are dependent on property taxes to get the wheels to walk around. What I can say is that the economic structure that this government and this majority of population have provided in recent years, generally does not provide any justification for the need to introduce property taxes, but of course there may be individual situations in individual municipalities that can be about their own dispositions, and that can be about other, extraordinary, situations that I do not know about. I'm sure the representative Lauvås from Eastfold knows much more about that than I do. But the main point is that we have strengthened the municipal economy. We promised to strengthen the local economy. It was claimed that we would rage over the local economy. The Workers' Party must go back on that. I wonder if the Labour Party has intended to repeat that kind of claim in this election campaign, because I don't think the Workers' Party will have any stomach for that. We've strengthened the local economy. It has been strengthened more, and the action space for Norwegian municipalities has generally increased more, during this period than in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e508	In a joint comment from the Committee in the configuration, we say: ‘The Committee considers that there should be equivalent living conditions throughout the country and that provision should be made for housing throughout the country.’ The Government has adopted changes to the income system that are justified on the basis of building it up under the municipal reform. The result is that from municipalities with between 2000 and 25 000 inhabitants lost 239 municipalities, while 51 came out in positive. All municipalities with over 25 000 inhabitants won the conversion. We also know that in 2017, 92 municipalities came under the so-called INGAR, the income guarantee, and they lose 500 million in total. kr. This will keep track of the system, but only for a short period of time, not over time. The result is that two cliché municipalities receive different income bases and different levels of service production. Does the Right believe that these major dramatic changes in the income system contribute to ensuring equivalent living conditions throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e518	It is still this way – and it is fundamental in our income system – that the money is distributed so as to correct for different expenditure needs around the municipalities. It used to be, for example. a common basic grant to all municipalities, irrespective of their location and their size. The question should really go back, and the representative of the Central Party is really the one who has said the burden of proof here: how did the basic grant contribute to cohesion? It didn't. This contributed to the cementing of a structure where you almost paid for having town halls in the municipalities. What we've done is we've changed the income system so that you get a fairer distribution of the money. And it is still the case that district municipalities, municipalities in Northern Norway, have a significantly higher level of transmission than central municipalities – precisely in order for them to have a good service offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e523	Let's take an example and say there are two municipalities that have 5,000 inhabitants, clichés like geography, exactly the same demography and the exact same challenges. One became 5,000 people after it joined someone, the other has 5,000 from before. They have completely different frameworks for providing services to their citizens and completely different opportunities for service levels on their services. This will continue over time – depending on whether they happened to be such a municipality, or whether they happened to be such a municipality because they merged just in 2017, when the decision was taken. Can the representative explain to me how the inhabitants of the two municipalities will be able to obtain equivalent services when the income base of the two municipalities is so totally different?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e530	I believe that even in all the mergers that the Centre Party has voted for, and also in the arrangement for voluntary mergers that the Centre Party has been in for, one will experience that when one municipality enters another municipality, the new municipality will have predictability of its income level for 20 years to come. It will presumptively also have a different and better starting point, for example. by retaining more basic grants than the neighbouring municipality which does not choose to join another municipality, whether it chooses to stand outside voluntarily or has tried to merge. In the case of municipalities that have tried to become part of a larger municipality, which has wanted it, but which has not been given it, and as you see losers, we have said – and so does the government – that you should have your own review to ensure that those municipalities can also receive compensation. These are the so-called bachelors, the ones who are involuntarily alone, and they're going to get an economic compensation to cover it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e537	SV and Right have always given priority to different community and private tax forms, for which the Right has been the spokesperson. Right-hand talk a lot about quality in school and quality in care. We in SV know that quality costs. Then you have to make sure that there are employees with the right skills and with enough time. This applies to school, to kindergarten, and to school health, for example, where the right and government are now removing the designation. The same is true in the case of grants to several nursery teachers in kindergartens. They say that municipalities should be able to spend this money on whatever they want. Then my question is: What does the representative Jensen say to me, among other things? Youth in the Drama, where there are 2,300 young people who are going to divide into one health sister? Had it not been right to earmark this money, so that we were sure that young people could have access to a school health service?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e544	I am sure that both Drammen and other Norwegian municipalities have different ways of putting together the offer to young people – we know – whether it concerns health care or anything else. The representative Karin Andersen claims that this is money that municipalities can use as they please. The fasite shows that Norwegian municipalities want to spend their money on a better welfare offer for their citizens. That's what Norwegian municipalities do. The representative Karin Andersen makes it sound like they're playing them off on something, or that the money goes away in some kind of swallow. Of course, Norwegian municipalities have one focus, and that is to ensure that their inhabitants, young and old, get a good welfare offer, a good health offer and a good social offer. But the municipalities are different, they have different assumptions, and you choose to put them together in different ways, which means that you might not find everything in any statistics you follow. I am sure that both Drammen and others have good offers for their citizens, and that is exactly what the municipality wants to spend the money on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e549	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e554	The municipality proposal for 2018 is interesting reading and important for people. It's probably local government around the country, and it's gonna follow up on what's going to happen. It is in the municipalities that people live in, and politicians are concerned with welfare services where they live. The municipalities are our most important providers of basic welfare services. That is why we are pleased that, when we deal with the last municipal proposition in this process, we in the Christian People's Party can say that we have been with and provided a decent municipal economy, at times fairly well. Of course, there have been marine intersections and disagreements about resource-intensive services, to mention one thing, but if we rise a little above the ground and see the picture in general, we see that the municipalities have largely got the framework they should have. And it was just supposed to be missing. It has been a demand from the Christian People's Party. It is also very gratifying that in recent years many municipalities have managed to get out of ROBEK, it is actually suggested that the number has been reduced from 45 to 30. An extra drag in the last knee was probably record high tax entry last year. It cannot be expected to continue in the same way, so for 2018 we will probably have to expect a more normal situation. In this case, the ‘hate of’ is also said for the many courageous and clear-sighted municipal politicians throughout the country who have shown the will and power to think new, to make the necessary adjustments and to take the necessary action. The Storting delivers framework conditions, but we also deliver a bunch of tasks to be solved in the individual municipality. There are local politicians who have to do the job of adapting. The income system for the county councils is also part of the leadership in this case, and we are pleased that a new cost key has now been put in place for the boat and ferries. We've got a clean-up that gives us much greater justice. And when you add 100 million. kr in addition to the boat and ferry counties, it starts to look like something. But it's with rules for local and county economy as with other living organisms: we're never done adjusting to get it more optimal, and the Christian People's Party wants to participate in that work. Last week we dealt with the reform of the municipalities and regions. It was a complex exercise with many moments and variables. One of them is the framework conditions for municipalities that are still involuntarily small after the neighbor has said no. It is important that a good financial system be put in place for these too, and it is important – as I also said on Thursday – that the instruments, the so-called carrots of the reform, must continue in the next period. Community reform is not history, but must continue in a good form. For the Christian People's Party, it is very important that the services are experienced by those who need them. Families need security, a good school, a kindergarten, and in this context, it is also important that we have a good framework for business, so that there is work to be done. A family that has work and a normal life situation gives a good childhood. And what's good for children is good for all of us. I am therefore particularly pleased that there seems to be a significant investment in the school. For the Christian People's Party, early efforts have been important in 1–4. class, and personally I also appreciate that there can be a new message about cultural schools, because it means a lot to many children to have another venue to succeed in. Then there are some things that the Christian People's Party has been with and contributed to: school health service, child and youth mental health escalation plan, better TT system, better care for the elderly, and I can mention several things – the Christian People's Party has had a significant impact on the budget that has given a social impact. We appreciate that. The Christian People's Party shall be recognizable. Designation is a demanding matter, but some things we believe are important. Now that asylum arrivals have changed a lot from 2015 to 2016, we are happy to have some money in place in the revision that goes to compensation for the municipalities that have invested to contribute to the national efforts in the situation we had. Finally, I recall the points we went through in the matter of sustainable cities and strong districts. It is very important that these principles continue, so that we develop our society to the best of the people, and that there be even better services in 2018. It wants the Christian People's Party to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e573	The Christian People's Party is a party that both here in this hall and out there has always been concerned with good offers to the weakest, and there is no one who draws in doubt, at least I don't want to do it. But when we see that individuals in this country are going to have millions in tax cuts – when there are so many needs out there, both in the care of the elderly, as the representative Tuskedal also took up his post, and in school, where one is concerned about early efforts – what do you think that these very rich people are going to get so big tax credits, in total in the 20 billion class, when one sees the need that is out there? Does the Christian People's Party believe that this is the right priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e578	The Christian People's Party believes that we must have a tax system that works and a tax system that people trust. Taxlets were not Christian People's Party's business. We could use some of this money in other ways, as the representative mentions; it would have been fun to get to it. At the same time, we need a tax system that stimulates reinvestment in order to speed up society again. After the period of eight red-green years, maybe it was time to change something about the tax system. Personally, I think that the taxet was the biggest team, and it wasn't a Christian People's Party thing, but as you know, when four parties are going to cooperate, it's giving and taking. The Christian People's Party was therefore clear in its demands for welfare schemes: to join that tax haven we had to get all the achievements that I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e586	In this case, we had a hearing in the municipal committee. Some of those who came and were very clear about what they wanted from us were both rapporteurs and county rapporteurs and others, from the West and from North Norway, and they were especially concerned with the boats and the ferries that bind together both the country and the people here in the country. Believes the Christian People's Party and the representative Tuskedal at 100 million. kr, which is now being put on the table to finance the tasks that the county has today in boating and ferrying, will be enough to help us to bind countries and people together in a better way?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e593	I can immediately say that I don't think that's enough, but it's the case, in many political areas, that we should have more money at our disposal. We have a very demanding country, and we have some ferry companies with great value creation that we could have had a greater focus on. That's why the Christian People's Party has also been so careful to highlight the loss compensation to some of these states, so now that we're increasing the ferry fee, it's a contribution to that. For the Christian People's Party, this is very important, transportation in the West and North Norway, with the value creation it stands for, and it's a bottleneck. So this we'll follow closely, and I hope we can increase that grant.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e602	The Christian People's Party is careful with its own comments and suggestions in the treatment of the municipal proposition. The party is basically behind the government, and we're going to take note of that and express the party's will and priorities. The county council is given a modest increase in the frames, 300 million, there 100 million. of these are set off to strengthen the boat and ferry. 200 million. So kr must cover growth in secondary, public transport, transport, etc. This won't go on. The highways are worn out, and KS says there is a need for 1.5 billion. until 2 bn. kr to seal the maintenance seat draw. The Central Party proposes a 10-year maintenance programme and government budget appropriations within the range of 1 billion to 1.5 billion. kr for 2018. What are the Christian People's Party's assessments of the KS's description of the state roads? And what does the Christian People's Party think about the Central Party's proposal for a maintenance program for the county roads that will close the gap over a decade?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e611	I have to confess that I don't know the plan of the Center Party well enough, so I want to look at it. I think we can have a common interest in strengthening the districts, where the value creation takes place. I also appreciate the fact that Greni has a searchlight on the maintenance kit, which is important. The Christian People's Party has also fought for a better RUP scheme, regional development project, so that districts can better develop their characteristics. So I think we should be able to figure out some of these points. I want to read the Central Party Plan for County Roads. We know that there was a significant delay when the counties took over the roads, and I know about the trailer company that has to put in half an hour's back time when they are going to pick up fish on the islands, etc. So that's a pretty critical situation, and I think we should be able to figure out together on that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e620	Finally, this proposal from the Centre Party and SV is in the setting here today, so it is a little funny that the representative has not discovered it. But what I could imagine asking is: SV and the Christian People's Party have been very much in agreement that there has been a great need to strengthen child protection and to strengthen school health, i.e. help for children and young people who are struggling in different ways, or who even need help to get a new home. What is happening in this budget is including such grants. Yes, there has been an escalation in school health. It is now stopped, and it is also done on child protection – as if it were intended – and these grants are included in the framework grant. What is the reason why the Christian People's Party has now turned around and believes that we must not, on the part of the Stortinge, ensure that the young people and the children who need this, that we, on the part of the Stortinge, do not, when we say that they will receive a strengthened offer, ensure that it actually becomes a reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e629	First, it was said that the Christian People's Party had not discovered this with – was it a ferry subsidy? That's right, but we're working together where we get results and money, and that's why we're in the majority that we're doing here. When it comes to focus on children and children's best, I think the Christian People's Party is in the first place. We have established and supported our own escalation plan for children and young people's mental health, we have established a plan for violence against children, we are following the child protection situation closely in all committees, and we are trying to involve the best of children in all work, for example. in transport, where we have had an impact on Barna's transport plan. So the Christian People's Party has a continuous plan to ensure the best for children. As I also said in my post, what is good for children is good for the whole of society, and that is the leadership of the Christian People's Party. Then we'll take a closer look at the matter that you mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e638	So it's about the county roads, that's what Greni's question was, and not the ferries. But enough about it. I do not think the representative responds very well to the question of why one now believes that one no longer needs to earmark this money – for child protection and for the school health service – because the experience from the past has shown that when one has stepped up without that type of earmark, unfortunately it has not become a position. Because there are also many other good things to spend money on in the municipal sector. So that's not that, it's not bad will, but if we from the Biggest side, the parties there, stand and promise that this is going to be a bet, then this is a way to make sure. Another thing I am amazed at: SV today proposes that we improve the system of particularly resource-intensive services. I thought that the Christian People's Party actually agreed with SV that it is meeting very well with municipalities, especially municipalities that have extra expenses, and that it could help balance what cannot be captured in the income system.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e647	The Christian People's Party is aware of this, and we believe that the areas that the representative here mentions are covered under the arrangements we're in. We've clarified that, and we have faith in that will happen. As I said, when it comes to ear tagging, we have been involved in ear tagging, among other things. health sisters, for that to happen. There we have great confidence that local politicians are making the right priorities in their municipality, so it is also a relationship of trust with local politicians. We in the Christian People's Party, through our organization, make our representatives in the municipalities aware of this. So we're going to follow this up not just from top to bottom, but in each municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e654	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e659	The center party will build society from below. That is why we want to decentralize power, housing, jobs, capital and competences. People should have real freedom to live where they want to. The development of the municipal sector is important for both business and housing. The centre party is opposed to the ongoing municipal and county reforms. These reforms will lead to centralisation and weakening the rule of the people – the opposite of what the Central Party wants. The central party wants a comprehensive assignment from state to municipalities and county councils in areas that will benefit from the use of local competence and local knowledge when the societal tasks are to be solved. The government's task reform is not a reform after the Central Party read. So far, relatively marginal tasks are transferred to municipalities, except for proposals to drain county municipalities for responsibilities and tasks. A single committee underlines the need for consistency between the tasks assigned and the economy of the municipalities. For 2018, the government’s increase in free income for the municipal sector will be largely absorbed by demographic developments, earmarked resources and pension costs. The central party therefore supports proposals to increase the income of the local government sector by between 2 billion. and $2.5 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. In addition, we're proposing 1 billion. to 1.5 billion kr to a maintenance programme for the county roads as part of a 10-year programme, i.e. a total increase of between 3 billion. and 4 billion. in addition to the arrangements of the Government. In the treatment of the municipal bill for 2017, the government received support for major changes in the income system of the municipalities. These changes included: reasond that they would build up under the government’s goal of the municipal reform — that is, a not even hidden threat that it would punish itself not to join up in large municipalities. The effects were great. Among municipalities between 2000 and 25 000 inhabitants, 239 municipalities were lost. Just 51 got into the plus. All municipalities with over 25 000 inhabitants used to this conversion. It's 92 municipalities that together lost 500 million. kr, which came under the income guarantee scheme. This illustrates the dramatic consequences of this conversion. The centre party believes that the conversion of the income system for the municipalities was completely wrong. In our proposal for an increased frame of 2 billion. to €2.5 billion. Therefore, kr is also included in proposals to reintroduce the basic grant at the 2016 level without any graduation. We want this to be done without creating huge losers again. Our increase in the framework will result in no one getting less in the transfer of free income than they get in the government's proposal. The income system for county municipalities was changed in 2015. The counties have worn out with great distortion, especially as a result of the poorly developed cost keys for boat and ferry. It has been promised every year since it was implemented, but it is not until this year that we are presented with a proposal to live with for the county municipalities. However, some critical comments were made during the Committee’s consultation on factors underlying the new cost keys. It was shown that the criteria chosen measure the number of boat trips and passenger trips, but not the distance and capacity associated with business needs. Therefore, further analysis of the new cost keys for boat and ferry is needed. The county councils have a large maintenance seat on the county road network. According to KS, there's an annual need for 1.5 billion. until 2 bn. kr. They took this up at the hearing. The centre party supports this and refers to a proposal for a 10-year programme in which we put in a start-up grant of 1 billion. to 1.5 billion kr in 2018. Today, the NTP settings are also submitted to Stortinget. The center part goes in there to set aside 2.3 billion. kr for securing tunnels in the first part of the NTP period. In the Committee’s consultation, we received a response from several counties to changes in the rules for the allocation of discretionary funds following flood and natural damage. The government announces that it introduces a pre-requisite that county councils must have expenditures in excess of NOK 250 per capita, in order to be partially compensated. We know that this will hit some states particularly hard. It will put a heavy load on them that they cannot carry without affecting other tasks. Let me also mention the Committee's comment on Rindal's application for transfer to the South-Trondelag. This has nothing to do with the municipal reform, because Rindal has a strong connection with Trøndelag and has had this application for many years. This matter must be clarified as soon as possible. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Central Party has with or alone with the SV, and to inform you that we are also voting in favour of proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and SV, on the co-financing scheme for ICT.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e684	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e692	The rate of the municipal economy after this period is as follows: the average real growth rate for the municipal sector of the free income per capita was 0.6 pst. from 2005 to 2013. From 2013 to 2016, the real growth was on average 1,2 pst. The financial result for the local government sector in 2016 was the best since 2006, with a net operating surplus of 4.2 pst. In 2015, the result was 3.2 pst. for the sector. We have to go all the way back to the 1990s to find two consecutive years with such good results for the local economy. Before the 2013 elections, there was no limit to how the red-green parties created terror against the voters. The representative, Greni, spoke to the newspaper Arbedets Rett before the election that in the South-Trøndelag almost all municipalities would lose their conversion, a total loss of 135 million. kr. Does the representative, Mr. Greni, regret the bombastic claim she made in the election campaign four years ago? And will she repeat that this year too?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e699	The manufacturing process is fairly biased. If one looks at the tables that are there, they show that the annual growth has decreased in the period from 2013 to 2017. Then the growth was 1.8 pst. In the current period, the growth is 1.6 pst. Then I'm going to admit one thing: it wasn't as dramatic as I feared, after we had Jern-Erna as a municipal minister. I think we may not get this rapporteur's appeal from the Right as we saw in 2005. I don't think we see the right-wing rapporteurs standing up and saying that they are very happy that we are now getting a Workers' Party-Center Party-based government for the harvest, as happened in 2005, when former representative Myraune was there and said that luckily it was a government shift, and that it was absolutely necessary for them in the smaller municipalities to be able to get this around. But at the same time, I would strongly warn against believing that there will be some dancing on roses, and we see what has happened to some municipalities after the conversion of the income system.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e706	I think everyone is a few that we don't want to dance in roses, but rather that today's government continues. I registered that Heidi Greni said in his post that one was against the municipal reform. I'm then a little surprised that one was essentially the voice of all the aggregations on Thursday. My question is about what the Center Party has become best known for in the last, that is, the reversal that they want to do in fields after fields. We heard last year that they said that someone wanted to reverse the income system for the municipalities that we introduced. And this is a little important: if we were to have a change of government, which I don't hope or believe, there are a number of municipalities, Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim, large municipalities, which are going to create a budget. Would the representative, Mr Greni, recommend that they have two draft budgets, one budget with a sitting government and the current municipal bill and one budget with lower revenues for the major municipalities, based on the central party's policy of reversal, already in 2018, or can they relax that there was no such rapid reversal, in that case?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e715	If the representative Njåstad had followed me a bit when I kept my post, I just pointed out that we want to reverse the income system. We want to go back to the basic grant we had before. That's why we're adding between 2 billion. and $2.5 billion. kr extra in addition to the government's bet, and I clarified in my post that there are no municipalities that will lose on the conversion of the income system – all municipalities will win on it. Oslo will win a little less than the smaller municipalities. So those who really should have two different budgets are the municipalities that will win the most with the Central Party arrangement, because they will have a considerably more liberal economy with our arrangement than with the government that they present today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e720	On Thursday last week, in the Christian People's Party, we had the pleasure of supporting a proposal to merge nearly 100 municipalities, so we got a new municipal map. I'm glad we got it done. Now it's 2017, now we're thinking about a future, and I've registered that the Center Party has engaged with the Workers' Party for the next period. Then it's very interesting to know what a thinker is if there are several municipalities that are now vulnerable and consider forming new municipalities with their neighbours, because we heard last week that the Workers' Party would strengthen today's reward scheme. In addition, it was said that they would not limit the reward scheme. Now I wonder what the Center Party means. Will the Centre Party participate in strengthening today's reward system and not limit it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e725	The centre party will maintain the reward system that has been, and it was not limited in time. It was today’s government with the support of the Christian People’s Party that set a date by guaranteeing that if you only make decisions by 1 July, you will get this. This scheme of 15+5 years on the breakdown grant, reform aid, etc. is something we will of course continue. We are in favour of voluntary municipal councils, because then we think that local politicians have thought that the centralisation that lies in municipal mergers, the disadvantages that lie there, with less proximity to services, etc. in the municipality, will strengthen the professional environment and more predictable economy etc. weigh up for. We have always voted in favour of voluntary community mergers. I think all the municipal mergers that have taken place before the reform were initiated by the central party rapporteurs. Of course, we will continue to support voluntary community mergers, and of course we will reverse coercive mergers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e732	It was interesting to hear the contribution of the representative, Mr. Greni. Among other things, she takes Once again, what I thought was interesting – a maintenance fund, or a aftermath, in the case of county roads. What's paradoxical is that the central party was also put in government when this was transferred to the county councils without regard to it and that and that. Among other things, we have have helped to repair it during this period by adding quite a lot of money to the county roads. But that wasn't my question. The representative of the Greni stayed quite a bit at the basic grant in the income system. That's interesting, because it's not like the smallest municipalities, with long distances, have come out of that system badly. On the contrary, they have come out better. For example, has Værøy and Røst come out worse with today's income system than with what they had before?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e739	No, the smallest municipalities have come out well with today's income system. But the municipalities, as the government, the supporting parties and the expert committee have said, the ideal municipality size in Norway, those with less than 25 000 inhabitants, has come out of this income system very badly. As I said in my post, and as I made clear in the linecode exchange with Njåstad: No municipalities in Norway are going to lose at the Central Party's arrangement. We're going to add in between 2 billion. and $2.5 billion. Extra kroner. That means that all municipalities will benefit from the conversion that we want from the income system. It is strange that these coercive comrades believe that municipalities that have quite similar challenges and precisely the same tasks should have completely different funding depending on whether they were a municipality that looked like this before 2017, or whether they become a municipality through voluntary or forced municipal merger in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e744	Interestingly, the representative agrees with the fact that the smallest municipalities with the greatest distance constraints have come out better with our system. It could be interesting to follow up with the following: Does the representative, Mr Greni, think it would be very reasonable not to have it so focused – that is, that all municipalities would get out even better? Wouldn't it have been better to target this by focusing on what we've done throughout the period, with better services for the inhabitants, not necessarily having light in all the town halls? That's what this is all about. Does not the representative Mr Greni agree that there are better services for the citizens this is about – especially in the municipal sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e749	The centre party wants better services for all citizens, we do not want citizens to be punished either because the municipality is an old-fashioned municipality – if the representative Jensen called it, that is, those who have been rejected on grey paper and cannot join others – or because they do not want community mergers and therefore lose this. We want all citizens to have equivalent services wherever they live, and whether they happen to live in a community that is merged, coerced or voluntary, in 2017. Therefore, we want to return to an income system that provides equivalent services to all residents of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e754	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e760	Last week we adopted in this room the country's most extensive change in Municipality-Norway and County-Norway in several decades. In the shadow of the two reforms, there are probably several who have ignored the annual municipal proposal. I think that's wrong, because the community proposition is in many ways the year of life out to our communities around Norway. It provides important guidance for municipal income, tasks and responsibilities in the coming year. This year, the proposition is closely linked to the local and regional reform. For the Left, it has been important to stress that the government must now focus on implementing rapid and tidy border clearances around the new municipalities that have now emerged. For example, the town of Bryggja, which is part of the municipality of Vågsøy, lies between the municipalities of Eid and Selje. The people in Brygja have been aware that they want to be part of the new municipality between Eid and Selje. People in the new municipality and in Bryggja are still living in uncertainty about that border clearance. It is therefore important that this and other cases be clarified soon. The left assumes that that clarification should take place by the end of 2017. It is a pity that the majority of the committee has not taken the same ambitious timetable into account in its comments, but I hope that the Council of State takes note of the importance of such adjustments and that it must do so as soon as possible. Border adjustments will not only be important around the new municipalities. The left has also indicated that a sample should be able to look at border adjustments around other municipalities, especially around the urban areas, when there are old and inadequate municipal boundaries that prevent seamless municipal services within everything from transport to care. Let me say a few words about the ferries: every year, the ferries spend millions on the purchase of ferry services. A fragmented market makes private operators stronger in negotiating agreements that cost our community more than it necessarily tastes. This could easily have been avoided if the ferries had realised that it was a strength to stand together in such purchasing processes. The left has therefore set up a joint agency for the purchase of ferry services, and we ask the government to look at ways to help the relevant actors set up such an office. Although we have discussed the municipality's proposal, it is clear that the county reform of the time also has an impact on the local economy of the country. The regional centre grant has been an important means of making aggregation more attractive. Several municipalities have fulfilled the intentions of the municipal reform and should be praised. The left is therefore satisfied that the majority of the population have asked the government to grant grants in such a way that even smaller municipalities that have joined will benefit from that grant. In addition, the municipal proposal refers to the regional reform by several teams, among others: with reference to the cultural items that the government wishes to transfer from the State budget to the new county municipalities already in 2018. The Left and Christian People's Party has been concerned that cultural tasks should be transferred to the new counties, but believes that such a large-scale transformation of the cultural budget must be taken into account in a process around the communication of culture, where the actors involved are also given the opportunity to express themselves. I would also like to stress that the Left has sought to have a majority to make the county council the administrator of land law applications in terms of the dispensation of land under two decks for housing, leisure homes or naust. We have addressed this because we believe that these are challenges that are best addressed regionally, in a way that can take account of different conditions in different parts of the country. Municipal policy is much, big and small. There are several good heart issues that we in the Left believe deserve mention in the municipal proposition. We have called for an evaluation of the transfer of funds to the volunteer centres from state to municipality, in order to ensure that the change, supported by Left, does not lead to a weakening of volunteering. Left Justice President Odd Einar Dørum established the volunteer centres in his time to fill an important hole in Norwegian society. Volunteering is and will become an important element of society, and the Left is concerned that the centres should be strengthened, and not weakened, out of a transfer of financial responsibility. There are otherwise two local projects I want to present in my post today. One is the planning of a Jakob Sande centre in Fjaler municipality. Jakob Sande is one of our nation's great writers and has left behind a great cultural heritage. It is our responsibility to transfer it to future generations to ensure that Sande's legacy is not lost. Therefore, I believe that a lot speaks for such a centre in Fjaler and ask the government to ensure that this is included in the state budget for 2018. Otherwise, I am very pleased with the things we have been given in the revised national budget, which we will adopt on a later occasion, among other things. that we now have a leverage for the care sector for the merged municipalities. Let's start there. I think it's important to have skills, not least for nurses, help nurses and caregivers in the new municipalities. To strengthen that kind of competence I think will be very important. Then we'll learn from it and evaluate it. However, this should be introduced in the same way as with the Teacher Lift. I think that'll be important in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e791	A proposal is likely to be made by the representative of the City of Skeleton?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e796	Yes, I'm taking up our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e801	The representative André N. Skelstad has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e808	The representative spent a lot of time talking about border adjustments. I find it strange that the Left's representative did not mention teachers, knowledge and school in one word. Unio's calculations have shown that next year's scheme will mean an approximate zero growth for the local government sector. There is then little room for action to recruit more teachers who can provide early work and adapted training. And maybe it's not so strange that the Left's representative didn't talk about knowledge, school and teachers. Then my question is: why is the Left part of a government that prioritises the very greatest money on tax cuts to those who have the most from before, and not money to the welfare municipalities that bet on children and young people and knowledge to all?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e815	I think it's interesting that the Workers' Party is pulling it up. In a little five-minute post, it's limited how much you can say. But then I have the opportunity to say a little bit about teachers. I have to be allowed to say that compared to 2013, there is more than triple investment in further education, up to 1.3 billion. kr. That's why it's a little surprising that that question comes from the Workers' Party. More than 6 000 teachers have now received a further training offer in 2017, compared with 1 900 in 2013. If it's not a powerful bet, which the Left has also contributed to, I think the representative Håheim and I will read a little bit differently. I have to say, I'm a little surprised that there's something like we don't bet on teachers. There has never been so much effort on teachers, not least because the Left has been so crystal clear that this is important for our children. But it is also important to have good, competent schoolleaders into the classroom, who in turn provide our children with the best possible education.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e820	There is no disagreement on the provision of continuing training to teachers in this room. I think all parties are in on that. The Labour Party has fully supported everything that has come there. But where the disagreement seems to lie, we're going to have more teachers in school. This is what schools demand — at least when I'm out in School-Norway — that you have more teachers to see each and every child, more teachers who can help you adapt to training for all students, and more employees in school who can be there in the spare minutes and watch bullying, see each student. It's strange then that the Left doesn't talk about school in a debate about the municipal sector, because it's our county councils, it's our municipalities that are going to hire these teachers. Continuing education is excellent, but the Labour Party has more ambitions. We will also help the municipalities and county councils to employ more teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e829	I began to become unsure, when the light began to flash, if we were to finish the debate, but I expect that we will continue. We have strongly prioritised the county councils, we have always been crystal clear at regional level, because the school owner of secondary schools is also an important resource. This is one of the big tasks for county councils, which is just the big school owner. It has therefore been a little surprising that the Workers' Party has not been in the final phase. So ask the representative what we've done. We believe it is important to have competent, good teachers in the classroom. I fully agree with the representative that bullying is important both to prevent and to hit hard, but the most important thing is competent teachers who give the students the necessary fill, because that is what we are going to build on in the future. I am a little surprised that the representative is not more focused on the fact that continuing education is an important part. I think it'll turn out over time that it might be the most important grip that's been done for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e838	The Government deletes the proposal to introduce a share of corporate tax to municipalities from 2018. The proposal was announced in the municipality’s 2016 proposal and was due to be introduced from 2017. As a result, the framework transfers would have been reduced in favour of the income from corporate tax. This would give a redistribution between municipalities, which the Center Party is strongly opposed to. The left states in its observations in the preamble that the municipal share of corporate tax is an important principle for municipalities to be yes-communities to facilitate business and value creation. The government is now asking for a postponement and indicates that with a business life that is cyclical, re-establishing corporation tax could lead to increased uncertainty. Now there's a reason to ask, when is business not cyclical? Founder's activities and new businesses need support and pay little tax initially. It is established enterprises that contribute with corporation tax. [[President clubs]] Does the Left agree with the Central Party that the proposal should be abandoned now? [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e846	The president asks you to keep your speaking time even when you take a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e851	I'm a little uncertain about, from parts of the post to Greni, if she didn't get the question put forward, but I choose to interpret it for the best of all. We've been concerned about this, and if I'm not completely wrong, we've been together in the nutrition committee about, among other things. to look at land taxation around farming, etc., which is very important in our coastal areas, also not least in the border counties of the representative, which she represents today, that is, the Southern Tributes, with the area of Frøya/Hitra. But I want to speed up the importance of that, when we have problems like in the new great Outer Namdal municipality, with the PD disease that has now come, which shows the need for strong muscles. But it also shows the need for the Stortinget to be able to look at: what do we do when an entire region is exposed to something like the PD influenza that is now happening? It would have been interesting if the Center Party had also clarified its position on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e856	Thanks for the answer that was not about corporate tax, but I can ask for something completely different. The representative was very concerned about the new tasks of the county council in his article. When representatives of the government spoke out on Thursday, they said that now it's much easier to put down the county council, we're actually halfway to the goal. It is easy to understand when they have arranged such large regions that local knowledge disappears. In addition, important tasks have been removed from the county. Important tasks such as public transport can now be added to the municipalities, and dental services shall be tested, with the fear that they may also be added to the municipalities at a later stage. What does the representative think about the opinions, including: Mr Schou said that the objective of reducing the regional level is now half-way?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e861	If I bombed on the answer in my first, it might also be because I became a little uncertain about what the question was. Local knowledge is not crucial in this respect; it is primarily about providing good qualitative and quantitative services in the new regions. Then I realize that the Right Party and the Advance Party can have their way towards the level of the region. I just have to commend the two parties that have been present now and have perhaps one of the most powerful transfers after the hospitals were removed. We have to remember that it was just the local hospitals. Then I have to make one mistake that is repeated by the representatives of the Centre Party and by several. Collectives have not been transferred; there is a partnership between the major urban municipalities and the county municipalities. Dental health is continued as of today with a trial of 15 municipalities. There must be an end to creative accounting, because dental health is still within the county.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e870	I understand it is very uncomfortable for the Left to take on board what the cooperation parties really think about the proposal for new regional reform, that one has actually opened up to eliminate these important tasks, and that one seems to be halfway in putting down what the Left now claims to have saved. What I'm going to ask the Left is the outsourcing of competition and offers in the care of the elderly. Because there we now got a response from both the Right and the Advance Party, and they say quite clearly and directly that they think it is entirely right that the help nurses and cleaners lose the pension, thousands of kroner, that they are being put off by competition. Then I want to ask if it's also left's message to these heroes in the care, that they're not important, that they serve too much and have too good pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e877	No, as I said in my post, however, I will praise the heroes of care. That's why the Left is at the top and I've had a breakthrough, which I'm very pleased with, in the revised budget, with a level of competence in primary care, i.e. for municipal employees. I heard a line exchange between representatives Geir Sigbjørn Tskedal and Karin Andersen about something of the same thing. I also believe that when we didn't get the big map today, there are some challenges in municipal services today, especially in the resource-intensive services, but also in what we can call special care, where some municipalities are definitely too small to provide the necessary skills. I also think SV has to take over. For this is an important part that has been ‘outsourced’ in many ways, by several colors of those who govern the municipalities, but is an important theme for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e884	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e889	Today, the Stortinge distributes large sums of money to areas that affect every human being in this country. I cannot fail to notice that both the press release and the gallery are empty. I think that's pretty sad, because now it's about how much money we're going to spend at school, whether we're going to have enough money for the care of the elderly, whether we're going to make sure that anyone in need of child protection gets it faster than today. Many people wait a long time, and some people don't get enough help. In some places there is a lack of staff, in others there may be a lack of competent staff. It's about money, because the competent employees cost money. For SV, this is a value question, and there is always a bit of a strange debate about who trusts in the local government sector. In fact, SV trusts the municipalities so much that we are the party that prioritises the municipal economy the highest of all parties, and this year we also propose 4.8 – 5.8 billion. kr more than the government. It's also more than the other opposition sections. We've been doing this all year, and that's because we think it's much more important to bet on these common areas – school, child protection, care for the elderly, and also on the climate you need to deal with in municipalities, rehabilitation, mental health, the school health service. These are areas we know need more effort, and if we do that effort, we know that it contributes very well to reducing the differences in society. But the government's and the supporting parties' recipe is to let the big money go into the tax havens of the richest. That's a bad use of money. Our arrangement provides many more jobs, and it provides much better well-being and much better distribution. The local economy is very important. Of course, it is also a supporter of district policy. So in our arrangement, we've got room for both more guidance for newly-trained teachers and for more teachers, i.e. a minimum standard for how many teachers there should be. We have room to strengthen child protection by 100 million. kr, we have room for two recordings in the kindergartens, and we have room for 350 million. in the care of the elderly for the escalating of several posts. That's absolutely necessary. I hear that the government and the cooperation parties say that there are now a lot of municipalities that are going positive, and that some of these have previously been on the ROBEK list. In my state, it's e.g. one municipality that has now reached the plus. It's Åsne's municipality. And what can we say about Åsne's municipality? It's one of the municipalities with the oldest population. And what have they done to get praise from the government now? They've closed down 25 hospitals. They've laid down 25 hospitals in a municipality that needs these hospitals to get hurt. And then they get praise from the government. SV prefers them to get money, so that they can have enough sick homes, and also that a municipality like Åsnes – which is one of the municipalities in the country that is the best place to set up foster homes and provide young people and families who are struggling, the opportunity to have a safe home – get a better economy, so that they can do this important task. We also have in our arrangement bets where you actually get a real rehabilitation opportunity in the municipalities, not a cut, as the government presented in the budget. That's 175 million. kr less for rehabilitation until next year than it was last year, and there is no escalating plan; it is a stepping down. We also want a stepping-up plan for low-threshold mental health care in municipalities, and we combine this with a further commitment to school health care and health services. It is absolutely necessary, and it will give good lives for many more. We are also increasing the effort in the drug field in the municipalities, and the Swedish authorities are earmarking this money. I want to repeat that SV does not do this because we do not trust the municipalities. First, we do it to make sure that once we have promised that there will be better child protection or more health sisters, we will be able to ensure that it does. The second is that we should be able to visualize what the state has put on the table for this, and say, yes, it went so far. If it was not enough, the State must be involved in taking responsibility for financing the services. I want to include the suggestions in the setting that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e906	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e913	The right and the right are probably in agreement that all public institutions should act in a predictable and ethical manner. During the kindergarten reform, SV was eager to get private, including commercial, actors to invest involvement, time and capital in kindergartens. Now, a few years later, SV is attacking commercial access to bids for kindergarten and leads an aggressive rhetoric against any kind of dividends on the investments and work that have gone down to such activities. So I have two questions for SV: Does SV mean that they promote confidence between politicians and society around and appear to be an ethical model through such an unpredictable way of acting? And does SV think such swinging door policy increases the involvement of social entrepreneurs to create new jobs and solve important tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e918	I record that the right considers it ethically worthwhile that the tax money we pay and that is granted to, for example, the tax money we pay. child protection or kindergartens shall be paid to millions of dividends to private owners who even place their companies in a tax haven and do not participate in and pay at the due time we have. SV is not against private people, but we are against taking profits – big profits – from these companies. If the representative had gone through the volume of kindergartens, he would have seen that there are no small entrepreneurs who only take a profit that covers their own costs. There are large international companies that are largely investment funds, which own these companies that are currently running kindergartens. And yes, SV wants that money to go to more kindergartens, and the municipal, non-governmental organisations and private individuals who do not want to take dividends are cordially welcome to that skill.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e924	Then we can well see that SV’s resistance to commercial kindergartens is not due to dissatisfaction with such kindergartens from users – or perhaps the parents of users, to be precise – nor is it due to the fact that private kindergartens are more expensive to operate, and that the fig page on poorer pension schemes is at best low in bone. So SV can simply confirm that the resistance to commercial nursery owners is exclusively ideological and not practically based?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e929	I think the representative has to listen to the answer. This is about what our tax money is going to be used for. I note that the Right is quite right that some companies are making a lot of money on people's taxes, which people think should go to better kindergartens – or in the care of the elderly, or in the field of child protection. We have now seen a development in which large dividends are collected, and the government has refused to answer the Storting on how much is taken out of these companies. I'm a happy taxpayer, but I get quite mad when I realize that my tax money goes to this, and I think it actually becomes people. Then I register that the Right seems to cut in retirement in the hundreds of thousands of dollars for people who work in kindergarten, care for the elderly or clean-up, are small money and a fig leaf. For SV it is important. These are people who deserve every penny.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e936	I'll continue where the Right Representative ends. I heard the reply from the representative, Andersen, but she refuses to give an answer as to why it was okay. If private actors are as terrible as the Socialist Left Party should suddenly have it to – despite all the objective review shows that they have better uplift when it comes to user satisfaction, they provide a service at a lower and fairer price and manage at the top of it all to take out a surplus that they invest in businesses – why was it so important for SV to take away people's pension rights and do all these terrible things when entering the kindergarten agreement? Then it was quite okay to use private kindergartens. It was a prerequisite for achieving full child-care coverage. Now you want to abolish those who contributed to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e943	There's two reasons why it happened that time. One was that this was an inevitable demand made by the Progress Party during the negotiations. It was the Progress Party and the SV who took the initiative in this, and it was the Progress Party that demanded it. That was never SV's case. We've always thought that the public or the ideals should have expanded the kindergartens. The second reason is also that at that time we didn't see the contour of what this was going to be. Now we see how the big companies position and buy up the small, private, orphaned kindergartens, those who don't do profit, but who run private kindergartens very well. This is not about the quality of the work of the employees in kindergartens. This is simply whether our tax money is to be used for private profit or whether it is to be used for quality in kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e950	It's a strange reasoning. The taxpayers' money goes to the kindergartens that have the most satisfied users, i.e. the parents of the children who go there. The employees are very pleased with them. Sick leave is lower in the municipality of Oslo, as I know it. This makes them at a fairer cost to taxpayers, despite the fact that they can make dividends that they invest in new jobs. How does it relate to using taxpayers as an argument why they want to put down the best providers of a service, whether kindergarten or nursing home, when they are able to deliver the best services at a fairer price? How do taxpayers earn more expensive and poorer services for most people in Municipality-Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e955	If the representative had believed what he was saying now, he must have put down everything that is municipal and privatized everything. This is a shame to report unprofessionally. It is part of the private that operates well-quality – it is quite right. But what's taken in profit is money left over that could have been given as a tax haven to ordinary people. Then you wouldn't have to take that money and give it to some of the richest people in the country, those who own these companies. Or they could be used either to increase capacity — there is a need, because there is a need for more kindergarten admissions in the country now — or they could be used to improve the quality of kindergartens, i.e., more kindergarten teachers and more professionals in kindergarten. The Progress Party now proposes that that money should be included in the framework of the local economy, and we do not know if there will be any more quality of that either.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e962	I believe I heard that SV had coverage for two babysittings for next year. I think the Christian People's Party has already got through that. I think that's actually coming to the autumn. My question is the same as I had for the Workers' Party and the Center Party, because I'm now thinking ahead. After the municipal reform, we enjoy about a hundred voluntary mergers together with SV. The reform aid, which has been limited in time, contained both basic grants, reform aid and support according to the number of inhabitants, i.e. three significant bags of money put at the disposal. That's what we call today's reward scheme. The Workers' Party and the Centre have now said that they should strengthen that arrangement further. They have also said that it should not be limited in time. And now I ask the same question to SV, which has been part of the red-green: How does SV relate to that question, since there can be a new situation after the election?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e969	Like the Workers' Party and the Center Party, SV is for voluntary community mergers, and we are willing to contribute to this with reform support. There's no doubt about it. What we've been critical of is we're going to put the whole local economy around and twist it to force municipal mergers in a financial way. It's been SV critical all the way. We see that the outcome of the arrangements to which the Christian People's Party has contributed affects some of the municipalities that are medium-sized. They now have problems, so we have to look at this. But if municipalities or counties join forces, SV of course is behind the need to cover the costs. They're big. In sum, you might be able to consider whether some of the money spent on this process that didn't lead to that much could have been spent in a better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e974	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e979	The government's objectives are strong, living communities. We want to spread power and build society from below. People and communities must control their own lives and influence their own social development. These objectives have been followed up by concrete policy actions throughout the four-year period. We are implementing a community reform that ensures stronger municipalities, which can provide better services where people live, and more power back to the municipal government halls. We have clearly informed the county councillors to pay more attention to local assessments in regulatory matters and have asked them to coordinate and cut off objections to municipal plans. Under this government, municipalities get more insight into their vision than they did under the red-green. The majority of the majority have adopted the Government's proposal for a new dispute resolution system, which strengthens the position of the municipalities in meeting the State authorities. In addition, we have ensured that municipalities have a good financial framework, which has allowed them to further develop their welfare services. The government contributes to a real growth in the total income of the local government sector of between 4.3 billion. and 5,3 billion. kr in 2018. This growth will ensure that local government expenditure on demographics and pensions is covered, that we finance priority political efforts and provide room for local priorities. We continue our priority of areas that are important to strengthen the social security network in the municipalities. 300 million. The growth of free income is justified by the escalation plan for the drug field, which is intended to help people with drug problems and their relatives get better and more comparable offers where they live. In order to give all students a good starting point for their education and their lives, we strengthen the early effort in kindergarten and school by 200 million. kr in the framework of free income. But if children and young people are to learn something, they need better help when they are struggling with mental or other health problems. In many cases, this requires better support and follow-up for families. For this reason, over the entire period, the government has strengthened health stations and school health services. We now see the results of the initiative by providing more children with help, and several parents get home visits after birth. In 2018 is 200 million. the growth of free income based on measures for children, young people and families. Better focus on prevention will also equip municipalities for greater responsibilities in the area of child protection, so that more children can get help in their neighbourhood. In coastal areas throughout the country, workers, schoolchildren and businesses depend entirely on transport by boat and ferry. The cost of this offer has increased significantly in recent years, including the following: due to investments in new and more environmentally friendly technologies. So we're dividing by 100 million. kr specifically for the ferries. This will help to strengthen coastal transport and provide better opportunities for green investment and assignment to Norwegian shipyards hit by the downturn in the oil sector. We also introduce a new cost key for boat and ferry, which in a much better way than today's system captures variations in county costs. This provides a more correct, fair and predictable funding. In the 2013 election campaign, the red-greens had a national campaign with a series of headlines about how much the municipalities would lose on a bourgeois government. The municipalities of Finnmark would lose 230 million. kr, according to Helga Pedersen. The center party thought Telemark would lose $90 million. kr. Marit Arnstad was concerned about cutting in the welfare of the trotters, and many others had similar look-up. Now we have emphatically documented that claims of cutting and starvation were horror propaganda. The Ministry has made thorough calculations, taking into account both changes in tasks, population growth and tax revenue from 2005 to 2016. These estimates show that real growth in municipalities was stronger in the years 2013–2016 than in the red-green eight years. Overall, the municipalities of Finnmark and Telemark have experienced higher real growth in these years. We don't yet know what becomes the fasit of tax revenue for this year, but also if we include estimates for this, it shows that the municipalities have had a slightly higher growth per capita in our four years than in the last eight red-green ones. We also look at the municipal operating results for 2015 and 2016. Yes, we actually have to go back to the 1990s to figure out two years in a row with such good operating results in the municipalities. The number of ROBEK municipalities is down to 30. That's the lowest level we've ever registered. Then it's almost impossible to believe when you're listening to the representative Helga Pedersen, who's back in 2013 mode with horrors and black paint of what it's like in Kommune-Norway. Local politicians are not familiar with the picture they're trying to draw. At the presentation of all our draft budgets, I have made it clear that although we give the municipalities growth and space for action, it still has to be made demanding priorities in the municipalities. It is still necessary to work on improving efficiency and resource use. This has always been the case, and local politicians know it very well. We all know that the challenges of the future cannot be solved with more money for everything. When oil revenue goes down, and the welfare challenges go up, we have to do two things. We have to create bigger values and use resources better. In order to create greater values and secure well-being, the government has invested in knowledge, infrastructure and innovation. We need to use the resources better. For this reason, the government has undertaken a major effort to renew, simplify and improve the public sector, both state and municipality. Four years ago, digitisation work lacked pace, coordination and political leadership. Under this government, we have given digitization work muscles to lift and power to carry out. Now we see results of that. Many important digitisation projects are being carried out which will provide better services to citizens and businesses and which will contribute to improving the efficiency of public administration. However, there is still a need for stronger coordination across sectors and across levels of administration. That is why we now have an important system for the Municipality of Norway that allows municipalities with strong ICT environments to be digital locomotives, to develop important projects that can be implemented in all municipalities. We will eventually also have a new funding model for actions for which the State takes the investment costs and where the municipalities have the advantage. We also cooperate with municipalities on clear language and other important simplification measures. The first welfare schemes were neither state nor municipal. They were developed by actors such as the Church, the Building Laws and the Sanitation Women. They saw distress and major social problems and took responsibility for helping. Private operators have often gone ahead, thought of new, taken responsibility and supplemented, challenged and improved public services – as when private operators made sure to meet the SV’s main choice promise, to help parents across the country get a good childcare offer. Public services should be publicly funded, but it is important that we also open up to voluntary and social entrepreneurs in these areas, who can help raise individuals and solve social challenges. Among them is Maaike Visser, who has developed a method for training children with difficulty in reading and writing, the so-called sound color. 86 schools have used the method. 3 800 children have been offered an opportunity to respond better to the challenges. Phillip in ten years tells us that the method has made it easier to understand and learn. There are many innovative forces also within municipal services. Among them are Tone Risvoll Kvernes and the other employees in the Children's Protection in Kongsberg municipality. They think again about how to include the children's family and network in their work, and succeed in reducing emergency placements by 90 pst. To meet today’s and tomorrow’s health and welfare challenges, we need to develop new, good services in good cooperation between the municipality, social entrepreneurs, volunteers and private individuals, and, of course, services should continue to be publicly funded.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1017	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1023	I noticed that the Council of State began its intervention by saying that the government would spread power and strengthen local democracy. At the same time, at their last national meeting, government partners have decided that they will prohibit municipalities from levying property taxes. Does the Council agree with this proposal by the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1028	I think I have answered that question earlier – also to the same representative. No, the right won't forbid this. But I don't think it's a good idea to introduce property taxes in a situation where the local economy is as good as it is under the bourgeois government. It is important that local politicians prioritise and ensure that both business development is facilitated and welfare services strengthened. Among other things, we see: in the representative's own home state that the municipalities have been strengthened more under the bourgeois government than when the representative Helga Pedersen and her party were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1035	At the same time, the demands and expectations of the municipalities have increased, and I know very few local politicians who sign the Council's description of the reality of the situation in the municipalities. We can refer to Højre's own rapporteur in Eidsberg, who explained to the Kommunal Report why his municipality had to introduce property taxes from the New Year. He said, ‘We did not have enough room for action to make the municipality as attractive and to facilitate growth as we wanted. Without property tax, it would almost cease to exist.» What does the Council of State think of this? What does he think about having delivered his own party trap in Eidsberg a municipal arrangement with a room of action that would lead to a standstill in the municipality without the property tax – which is opposed to the Right and the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1047	There are different challenges in the different municipalities, and I have great respect for the difficult choices facing local politicians. But it is documented that they scare and the black paint that, among other things, The representative Helga Pedersen took the lead in the 2013 election campaign. With civil government, municipalities have developed better than they had in the eight red-green years, and we intend to continue to secure good and predictable finances for municipalities. It is important for municipalities to be able to invest in schools, in good care for the elderly and in being able to close gaps in the social security network.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1052	When the Labour Party warned against the Right Policy in 2013, it was based on the Right’s own promises to change the income system. It's gone right away. We're happy about that. However, the warnings have been issued, despite record oil spending of 100 billion dollars. kr has fallen in both total and free revenues. In fact, in the case of North Norway, revenues have been lost for several hundred million dollars, due to the conversion of the county income system and cut off regional development funds. Just because the situation in municipalities is so different, it is important that municipalities have the opportunity to collect property taxes, as more rapporteurs from both the Right and the Advance Party have clarified on a number of occasions. Would a government consisting of the Right Party and the Advance Party be able to deposit the 12 billion. kr that the loss of property tax would mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1061	Now I have been clear that the property tax is a local tax which is the priority of local politicians. But the reality is that the municipalities have strengthened their economy, and it is positive if the representative Helga Pedersen admits that her horrors from 2013 were wrong. Then it's amazing that the representative Helga Pedersen is now back on the same track, with black paint, with horrors, in which local politicians don't recognize themselves. We have now implemented – after the municipal proposition was made – meetings in all counties, with local politicians from all parties. The receipt of the government's municipal plans has been good for the entire four-year period, and it has been good for 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1068	Last week we adopted a number of municipal mergers, and local politicians are now going to start the process of building new municipalities, a process they intend to take the most seriously and do thoroughly. This weekend, I was contacted by several small-time rapporteurs who received a letter from the department informing them that the meeting should be held by 1 July. There should be the number of representatives of the new Local Council, criteria for aggregation and functional distribution, powers of the common denominator, etc. be in place. If they do not do so by 1 July, the latest deadline is 25 August. Most local authorities have or have sent out their lists for the June meeting, and many have not planned to meet in August. As I said, it's in the middle of vacation time. What is the reason why this is so urgent when they are going to conflict from 2020? Will this be a sound process? Why should the local government not have a good process in this merger?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1077	Most people have a good process and have had a good process. I am impressed by the work done by local politicians, including many of the excellent rapporteurs from the Central Party who are now building new municipalities. Those local politicians deserve our support, our support and our help. When we have sent out a letter about joint municipal government meetings, it is in line with a majority comment that was in the position we discussed in Stortinget last Thursday, about the municipal reform. We're now following this up. As far as practicable, the deadline is 1 July. This is in line with the partitioning law, which states that it will be implemented as soon as it is practicable to do so. This is predictable, and this will help to get good processes in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1084	Two major differences in the right and the left are, first of all, how much money we think we should spend on community, on good school and care for the elderly. Here SV believes that we should spend more, while the Right spends the money on tax bills. The second is to use private commercial actors in e.g. care for the elderly and kindergartens. While the Right clearly agrees with the SV that you do not want profits in school – strangely, they think so – they think it's all right. When the nursery agreement was concluded, the right was not included, but then most of the private kindergartens were parents, who did not make any profit. What we've been looking at are that there are now fewer children in private kindergartens who need follow-up. They have fewer qualified employees, and the employees have worse conditions. Does the Right believe that it is good use of public funds to ensure it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1093	I'm recording that the representative Karin Andersen points to two differences. One is that the Right and the bourgeois parties will have a more competitive tax system, while the SV will increase taxes. However, when SV does not want to facilitate value creation in Norway, but only wants to spend more money on public budgets, there is really well-being on credit cards. It's not sustainable over time. The many social entrepreneurs, volunteers and private people, who contribute to the development of our welfare society, deserve a pat on the shoulder, not the SV's moral index finger. Knowing that oil revenues are on the way down and the welfare challenges are on the way up, we need to mobilise the good forces and provide good public funding. We need the innovation power of the social entrepreneurs. We have to facilitate that we are playing along and not with the moral index finger, as SV is in these debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1100	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1106	I have to get right on a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1111	Then the President will propose that the representative sign up for a three-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1116	The working party has great ambitions and sees the municipalities as the natural tool to further expand the service provision to its citizens. We look at areas of service in schools, where there is a need for more early action. We look at care services, where human resources are crucial. We see that more people who want it need to have kindergarten. We see that municipalities need to have opportunities for industrial development and urban and urban development. We look at the cultural offer, especially to young people and the elderly, those groups that may not have the easiest way to move themselves out of their own municipality, they need to get a good offer in the municipalities where they live. Then we can talk about e.g. youth cultural or youth clubs, places and activities where young people can gather, get to know each other and learn from each other, places where young people experience good communities. We're talking about cultural services that come to hospitals and other institutions, which can give a boost to the everyday lives of those who live there. I know that rapporteurs, municipal councillors, councillors and other employees in the municipalities are keen to develop good offers for their citizens, in school, care, kindergarten and culture. It's doing incredibly good work out there to get this done. With small funds, many municipalities are able to achieve the most incredible, preferably in collaboration with local voluntary teams and associations and local businesses. Without volunteering and business as supporters in the municipalities, the job would be almost impossible. That is why they must be mentioned. When I myself was elected as trustee in municipal policy, I saw how valuable the interaction between municipalities, volunteering and business was in many, many areas. But if this interaction is to work, it often has to be a little bit of an economy. That's not all that's available for free, to say it carefully. If local authorities do not have the little extra to contribute, volunteering and business can also be slowed down a little, and important measures on both the economic and cultural development side can be reduced. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that the local economy needs to be strengthened. The Labour Party has prioritised more money to the local government every year during this ageing period, because we have seen that it is necessary. We propose that the municipal sector should be strengthened by up to 3 billion in 2018. kr more than the government proposes in this proposition. So, of course, that sum will not solve all the challenges that Kommune-Norway has, but it will make a very, very good contribution in very, very many municipalities, to take the areas I have mentioned. The government has submitted a financial report to the municipalities. According to different expenditure on population growth and pensions, etc. as well as some leads on this money, the municipalities will experience a modest room for action, if anything at all. The review of Unio refers to almost zero growth for the municipalities. I know that the municipalities are busy using the money they get, as efficiently as possible. When we know this and see that the government spends a lot of money on efficiency improvement, I'll think of it as more of a shell for the government to decorate what becomes the municipality's actual space of action. Take the example of Eidsberg, where the rapporteur, as mentioned here, states in the Municipal Report that the economy is demanding, so demanding that Eidsberg introduced property taxes in the new year. Right-wing rapporteur in Eidsberg says that without property tax they didn't have enough room to make the municipality attractive. Without property tax, it would be almost a standstill. The rapporteur also says that he is calling for a better income system for the municipalities, he is calling for help. The Council of State, on its side, stands here and says that there is no reason to impose property taxes. Well, they'll notice that out there in the municipalities. 10 out of 18 Østfold municipalities actually received a cut budget for 2017, as they did not even get enough to cover the expected increase in wages and prices. I hardly get the Right-Rapporteur in Eidsberg to vote on the Labour Party – he is an honest and loyal man – but I share his view on the municipal economy. The possibility of investing more strongly in the local economy was present. This government chose to bet hard on tax cuts to Norway's richest. That was the priority. That's an error priority. The big money should go to solve the big problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1135	The community proposition is one of the really big opportunities we have in this room to say something about what social direction we want. The Labour Party wants a society where we have little differences between people, where we have strong communities, and where we solve the big problems together. We want to strengthen the community school and care provision, to ensure that more people have children's playgrounds, and to help more vulnerable children. And the municipalities are key to achieving the many good ambitions adopted in this hall. Then we need to strengthen the municipalities and enable them to handle their responsibilities. Here we see clear distinctions in Norwegian policy. We want to strengthen the local economy so that municipalities can do the job as expected and get a growth in free income, while the government rather prioritises tax cuts. The fact is, there is lower growth in total income in the municipal sector and in free income than in the red-green government, and we see a decline in employment growth in the municipalities. That's the consequence of Right-wing policy. This has always been the case, and Frank J. Jensen is therefore quite right when he says that the message from the Right is predictable. Because when the Right is in government, tax cuts are chosen rather than welfare. Another feature of the Right-Fremskritspart-government is that they shift the bills to others. We're looking at a number of areas. The high level of oil money is shifting the bill to future generations, and they transfer responsibility to the municipal framework, which in reality means that they are preparing the basis for them to take less responsibility from the state. The working party believes it is fair that when the state requires, it is also provided with funds that enable the municipalities to deliver as expected. Let me take a few examples: The government is proposing to transfer earmarked grants to several kindergarten teachers to the local council. Then there's going to be a standard of manning and pedagogical until the fall. So when the government doesn't have the ability to deliver in this area, the bill has to be transferred to the municipalities. That's the way it was when it came to getting more babysitting places. There are a number of municipalities that have reported back that they were very underfunded by the state. Another area is the transfer proposed by the government of the earmarked grant to positions in municipal child protection. That's something we'll strongly warn against. Under the red-green government, we had ambitions to put in place several positions in municipal child protection. We calculated that the municipalities were able to do that job, and therefore transferred money in the municipal framework. Nothing happened. That is why we chose to designate the funds the year after, and the number of employees grew in line with what was the ambition of the Stortinget. So it shows that it works exactly according to its purpose. And we're afraid that the same thing will happen when the government now transfers this responsibility to the municipal framework, that there will be a brake in the fine development we've seen in terms of the number of employees in child protection in recent years. The government also did the same when they transferred responsibility for the volunteer centres, and when they effectively removed the cultural school class, which many children had enjoyed and benefited from. We fear the same thing when the government, without investigation, justification or involvement of the actors, now proposes to transfer a number of measures and institutions in the cultural field to the states. Summarized after four years with the Right and Advance Party in government and at the rudder of the Ministry of Local Affairs: tax cuts over welfare. You push the bill over to other, future generations and to the municipalities. The Labour Party wants a different direction for Norway, a stronger community where we solve the big problems together. Then it is important that we give priority to welfare in front of the tax cuts to the richest. That's why we need a new majority for the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1152	The great post-war generation is now entering the ranks of pensioners. Many of us are also getting very old. The good news is that more people will stay healthy longer, but yet many will need extensive care and care in their last years. It'll be challenging for the municipalities. The government parties – in particular the Advance Party – promised in opposition that it should not be on the money in the case of the care of the elderly. The fasitite after four years shows something different. One of the long-standing Kepphesters of the Advance Party, so-called state funding of municipal care for the elderly, was attempted a year ago by a trial project. There has been no success. The municipalities gradually escaped from the whole project, one by one, over the head. Only six municipalities are still there, while hundreds of millions of dollars have gone out just to bureaucracy. The generation of older people that is now coming is a diverse generation that will require and expect a wider diversity of care services to a greater extent than in the past. Therefore, the Workers' Party will focus on several offers to older people, with culture, physical activity, experience and social community. We're going to put some earmarked money into the cultural spaser stick and an extra pot of over 40 million. kr to various activities for both residents and the elderly in nursing homes. We have also proposed a national strategy for better nutrition and access to nutrition skills in municipalities, which the government parties have voted down. The government has not taken on board this great diversity that the new generation of older people represents, on the contrary. The principle of ‘one size fits all’ calls for a policy on municipal care for the elderly. For example, the government will force the municipalities to use the investment grant for care facilities, which was introduced on a red-green watch, to build only new sites and not for renovation, whatever the needs of the municipality and its inhabitants. Both the KS and many individual municipalities — also civilly overthrown — have criticised the conversion into harsh order, which eventually led the Minister of Health to crawl to the cross and push at the time of the adopted conversion. The Labour Party is strongly opposed to this change, because we know that for years to come, there will be a need for rehabilitation of care facilities to meet the requirement of timely standards. Many municipalities will have problems implementing completely necessary rehabilitation projects with the new investment grant rules, including: Tromsø, Trondheim, Oslo and Bærum. As important as construction and new places, it is to have enough people employed in municipal health and care services. The Competencelift 2015, which came under the Stoltenberg II government, gave over 22,000 new annual works in municipal care over eight years, where more than 80 pst. had relevant education. It is then worrying to see that, while tasks are increasing in the municipalities, the annual growth rate in the municipal health and care sector is now falling. Over the last four years, annual growth has been only 1,500 new annual works, while under the red-green government there was an average of about 1 000. 2 800 new annual works. In addition, continuing training among municipal employees is very slow and is partly financed by government funds. Earlier this year the government launched a so-called older reform. The Health Minister declared that it would now end desktop reforms in elderly care designed in the capital. Then the government will go out and listen to those who know the problems of the body. It is undoubtedly a good idea – it is just a shame that it has not come before. The Labour Party, together with its municipalities, has for four years tried in vain to get the government to listen to the local authorities' input. So, to say all the old-fashioned ideas that the government has come up with, there has been massive resistance on the part of those who are going to put the measures into practice. Good care for the elderly is not created through quick fix and lightweight solutions. It must be worked in a targeted and continuous manner along several lines. The working party will use an even larger toolbox to create equivalent services for the elderly. We will try out an ear-marked sector grant for care for the elderly, linked to clear quality indicators, and a trust reform that will provide less bureaucracy, increased trust in employees and stronger user involvement. We will build on trust in local competence and knowledge, unlike the over-management that the government has operated, to which municipalities throughout the country have refused. In the context of the treatment of the municipal bill, the Workers' Party proposes to increase the income of municipalities for 2018 by 2 billion to 3 billion. in addition to the government's proposal. This will be achieved — including in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1173	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1178	It's in the municipalities people live and live their lives. Providing security for good services in school, care and well-being is the most important task that politicians have. At the same time, we need to provide good infrastructure so that people can get to work, school and leisure activities. The Labour Party has high ambitions for better quality in well-being, care and schooling in the municipalities, and we have high ambitions for the local community and county authorities' ability to facilitate business development and local employment. Under the government of Stoltenberg II, the municipal sector was given a significant financial boost. This investment has continued the Workers' Party during this large-scale period. Every year, we've prioritised more money to the municipalities than the government and the majority of the population, and we'll follow this up for the next year. We propose to strengthen the income of the local government sector by between 2 billion. and 3 billion. In addition to the government's plans in 2018, this is because the government's financial arrangements for the next year are not good enough. It does not provide municipalities with the economic space they need to expand capacity and enhance the quality of key welfare areas for the population. We want more people who want it to have children's playgrounds, and we want more pedagogical coverage in kindergartens. We believe that there is a need for early school work. We believe that capacity and quality need to be improved in the care of the elderly and propose a prevention package dealing with mental health, public health, good living and safe ageing where housing, activity and care are given priority. In order to achieve this, the economy of municipalities must be strengthened, as proposed by the Workers' Party. In the counties there is a great need for upgrading the county road network and for means of public transport, boat and ferry routes. The working party prioritises more money for this. For Østfold municipalities, this means more money for good services for the eastern folds. 10 out of 18 municipalities in Østfold actually received a cut budget in 2017 from today's government. There is therefore a need for a government shift from the autumn to enable the municipalities of Eastfold to provide good services to the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1193	The management of the municipal proposition shows that there is a wide disintegration of the municipal sector’s important role as the core wall of the Norwegian welfare society. The management of the Committee also underlines this. In view of this, it is very gratifying to state that the government continues to strengthen the economy of the municipal sector for the coming year. This means that municipalities can meet the challenges and strengthen community welfare services. It is also very happy to see the result of the government's strong commitment to the municipalities. In close cooperation between the civil parties, we have established solid and good economic frameworks throughout this period. The average real growth of the municipal sector's free revenues per capita was 0.6 pst. from 2005 to 2013. From 2013 to 2016, the real growth was on average 1,2 pst. In 2016, the financial result for the local government sector was the best since 2006, with a net operating surplus of 4.2 pst. In 2015, the result was 3.2 pst. for the sector. We have to go all the way back to the 1990s to find two consecutive years with such good results. It also seems to the government that, throughout this period, it has spread the frames in some way, so that it does not create an unrealistic picture of the situation. In this way, we have also avoided the big picture or government creating high expectations that local politicians will be struggling to meet. It is also very gratifying to note today that the government party and the cooperation party have completed a good system for holiday settlement agents for the county roads, which will be groundbreaking in order to replace ferries with fixed connections. In my home country, this applies to e.g. Access connection, Outer Steinsundet and Coastal Road. The municipality proposal also proposes a new cost key for boat and ferry from 2018 based on the recommendations of Møreforskingen. In addition, the government increases the permits for the ferry sector by 100 million. kr. It is an important contribution to ensuring good infrastructure for people and businesses along the coast. After eight years of reform-repudiation, quarreling and root in the red-green government, our government has implemented many important reforms and has enabled the municipalities and county councils to provide good welfare services, develop communities and solve the challenges in the future. Last Thursday was a historic day for our country. The Stortinge adopted the municipal reform and the regional reform. About 100 municipalities have agreed to each other through voluntary mergers, and a broad majority on Stortinget implements a regional reform that reduces the number of municipalities from 19 to 11. In addition, a moving task has been assigned to municipalities and to the new regions. At the end of the ageing period, it is also gratifying to be able to point out all the important measures taken by the government to improve the ability of the public sector to meet the challenges in the notes and in the future: choice, simplification, digitisation, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1214	Good welfare services in municipalities are crucial for all citizens – whether we need services such as: Kindergarten and school, or we need hospitalization — and also for those of us who are extremely vulnerable, and who need child protection, care or mental health care, to mention something. It is a little strange to hear the representatives of the Workers' Party asking why we are not talking about the care of the elderly. We are more than happy to do that, because during this period it has become 10,000 new hospitals – not promises of grants and other games with words to pretend that something has been done. 10 000 real new hospitals have been created during this period. A sound and predictable local economy is important in order to ensure knowledge in schools, quality of health services and the strengthening of social security networks. It is precisely this government party, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, has secured. Let's look at some of the key figures that the local government sector has to deal with when it comes to the total income: the local government sector gets 4 billion–5 billion. kr more in total revenue in 2018, of which approx. 4 B.C.E. kr. free income. That's $300 million. NOK 200 million to strengthen care for the elderly. SEK to strengthen early work in kindergarten and school, 200 million. to strengthen prevention measures for children, young people and families. At the top of this, the county gets 300 million. SEK of the growth of free income, including 100 million. kr of these are allocated separately to the ferries. The growth of the free income per capita was on average 1.3 pst. for the period 2013 to 2016. For the period 2005–2013 it was 0,6 pst. Then it becomes very strange to claim that the growth has fallen and there are worse times. 1.3 pst. is higher than 0.6 pst, no matter how you turn it around. The commitment to basic services and well-being demonstrates the importance of priorities, for these priorities have come at a time when there has been a significant fall in revenue in the oil sector. At the top of it all, there have also been challenges in the work situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1227	Today, we are dealing with one of the most important issues for the welfare of most people, because it is in the municipalities that people live and welfare is created. So if there's someone out there listening to this debate, don't let you confuse the technical computations, the kostra numbers, the percentages and the calculator trick. Instead, ask the question: Who wants the most? Who prioritises the welfare of most people? The working party has great ambitions. We want to have early school work, strengthen work against apostasy, we want more kindergartens, and we want a worthy old age. We're going to spend money on that, up to 3 billion dollars. More than the government next year, because we know that it costs to hire more pedagogues in kindergarten, it costs to prevent mental problems among children and young people, and it costs to provide and invest in care for the elderly. But for the Workers' Party, a safe childhood and a good old age are important. The government, on the other hand, prioritises something else – 20 billion. kr in tax cuts for those who already have the most. It increases the differences between people. It gives room to bet less on welfare. And while unemployment is record high, the growth in employment in municipalities has fallen below this government. There have been fewer teachers, fewer health professionals and fewer nurses than would have been had the Workers' Party run. Despite suction pipes down into the savings box of the generations that come after us, the government is not able to give priority to a better local economy. The representative Frank J. Jensen from the Right spoke about ‘growth ambitions’ for the municipalities. But a review of the Union has done shows that next year there is almost zero growth in the municipal sector. Zero growth -- it's not ambition. Then the Workers' Party has greater ambitions, up to 3 billion. more for kindergartens, early work, more teachers, fight against apostasy, bet on public transport and county roads. Then you can see that it's getting closer to election when the Progress Party starts talking about property taxes. It's basically only in election campaigns they're talking about it, and it's tempting, when the representative Njåstad is trying to create a picture that there are only red-green municipalities that have property taxes, to remind you of some statements in recent years. In Lindesnes, the Right has a rapporteur, Janne Fardal Kristoffersen, who has to reintroduce the property tax this year. She says, ‘But I can’t magic. Things Have Changed [[...]] Or we could say as the Right-Rapporteur in South Odal in 2014: ‘Without property taxes, we had not been able to provide services at a legal level’. I have more quotes, but they I get to make the next post.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1247	I'm absolutely sure the representative of Håheim has more quotes. However, it is – from a long journey as a municipal politician – that this is also about drying up to priority. It is also about drying to be a priority in this room. In my opinion, this is not least the possibility of having several qualified teachers, not least within the portfolio of both municipal and county tasks, where we have secondary schools. Over all these four years, we've been very clear that we've been investing in just the county municipalities to give it the opportunity to, among other things. secondary schools. It's also about good school management, and we get more specialised educators into school and more early work. This is also the key – not necessarily more teachers, but more early efforts and better qualified teachers. Here we need to expand continuing education and training so that everyone has a real chance of continuing education and training. And of course, it's about getting a pay development for teachers, because it's worth taking longer education for teachers as well. I mentioned in my previous post, which I have to point out further in the future, that it is also about the municipality proposition being part of what builds up on the state budget. We have many good projects, not least a rural package in Bø, which provide opportunities for greener transport and rural environments, but which have so far not received enough support to enable it to be realised. Bø has been a precursor municipality through the municipal reform and also deserves support for its rural package. I therefore hope that the government in the government budget for the autumn sees the opportunity to finance this important building measure, perhaps one of Norway’s most exciting urban development centres. The reforms we have now adopted will have a major impact on the community and state of Norway as well. I'm excited to follow developments further. I think we're going to look back on 2017 as the year when we finally broke the state of Norwegian municipal and county policy. At the bottom of a debate, it is also important to take into account that we have now done what we have done with regard to the new county municipalities. I have previously pointed out that it was not completely complete when we created the county income system. Once we have put in place the new county councils for the future, we also need to put in place a new income system for the new eleven county councils, which builds up and takes on what we are adopting today on ferries, and what has been demanded for quite a long time regarding ferry keys. We need to put in place a new county income system for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1261	The municipal proposition also has a thorough mention of the municipal reform. Initially, the government gave clear deadlines for the local processes of the municipal reform. On 1 July 2016, the deadline for the municipalities was 1 December 2016 and the deadline for the counties was 1 December 2016. I and many around the country find it critical that the government set aside its own deadlines when they registered that the reform did not want to join. Not even when the government presented its propositions on changed municipal structure and changed county structure, all merger cases were completed. Therefore, this year’s municipal bill also includes mention of such cases. I believe that the government's mention of the processes of the municipal reform testifies to a lack of respect for the local decisions taken within deadlines and based on referendums and thorough processes. The role of the people in this context is, to put it mildly, special. Let me talk about some of the issues. In the municipal bill, the government says that it is aware that the municipal council in Steigen will re-examine the issue of municipal mergers with Bodø. They have done so, and with the slightest majority in favour of pooling, while Bodø has said no. They have clearly said no. Neither Steigen nor Bodø will have any new rounds in this case now. On the basis of the recommendation from Fylkesmannen in Sør-Trøndelag and an investigation from NIVI Analysis, the Ministry opens up a new assessment of municipal mergers on Fosen. I am amazed that the department at all opens up the possibility that this should be taken up again. The case has been seriously distorted by various and conflicting decisions of the municipalities locally following interference and pressure from the county at a time when the decisions were taken in most municipalities. Five out of seven have said clearly that it is not relevant with one large municipality on Fosen. Now they need to be able to carry out agreed mergers that the Council of State has previously praised in strong order. The central party is critical of the government's proposal to change the funding mechanism for merged municipalities. It includes non-recurring costs, reform aid and breakdown grants. In addition, the government has introduced increasingly new arrangements to lubricate the reform. From 2018, the government proposes that the support for the municipal reform previously granted at its own post, or via discretionary means, be covered by the population grant. This once again means that large appropriations for the municipalities will be distributed from municipalities that continue as autonomous municipalities to merged municipalities. It cannot participate and has therefore proposed that aid schemes for merged municipalities should continue to be granted by their own mail. We also propose that the arrangements to be continued should be one-off aid, reform aid and disbursement grants, in line with the initial assumptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1276	What I wanted to fix instead was that the Council of State was allowed to stand in Stortinget and say that SV has spent more oil money than the government has done. It's completely, totally wrong. We've spent less oil money in every budget than the government has done in this period. And I believe that I should have been allowed to correct things beyond my speaking time. SV prioritises the municipal sector precisely because it is important. That government spends money on, doesn't create jobs. There are bad differences when there are not enough teachers in school, when there are not enough workers in the care of the elderly, and when it is still the case that many young people do not have a school health service available on the day life is black and difficult. It's hard to wait maybe several weeks when life is hard to carry and you're young. SV believes it is important that we now implement a real escalation plan in terms of rehabilitation in the municipalities. A lot of people are sick, but many of them can be healthy and functionally healthy again. Some may get rehabilitation so that they can live a good life, but there is no money for it in the municipalities. SV also believes that we should give priority to eartags and increase the focus on care. It's very important, but we have to make sure that it actually happens. We also believe that municipalities need to get money to take climate responsibility and not least to make climate adaptations. I'm going to point out one point that I think it's overdue now that the Storting is in favour of adoption, and that is to remove the possibility for municipalities to shorten social assistance for child welfare. We have asked the government, how much does the poorest families in the country lose because the municipalities are allowed to do this? The answer is that a place between 350 million. and 400 million. the poorest children's families lose that this is still possible. SV promotes the proposal to close this gap because the poorest families of children are, in fact, the only ones who do not receive child welfare in addition to their income in any case. One might wonder why they're getting poor. This would have been incredibly important to do now, because the differences in Norway are increasing, and the differences are increasing with government priorities, where they have also cut other subsidies to the poorest families. SV wants to do something about it, and we want to use our tax haven, which gives everyone with an income of less than 600,000 kroner several thousand in taxes. It would have been a much better setup.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1295	The debate is coming to an end, and it provides the basis for a summary. The right-hand batches have been subject to predictability. They both make the choice that they want new tax cuts. They haven't explained how much. It is a very important framework condition for the municipalities. For every billion who go to new tax cuts, the scope of action you can use to give priority to school and care in the years to come is being reduced. I also notice that the Right Party and the Advance Party disagree on whether or not to prohibit property taxes. And the voters should notice the warning of the Right Council of State against the proposals of the Progress Party. In terms of tax equalisation, it is also unclear what policy will be in the future. In the past, the Right Party and the Advance Party have planned less equalization, because in the middle of this growth period, the new company tax was introduced with bragging and bram. The working party took a distance from that, because we thought this would be a purely business cycle tax that would strengthen the natural economy. The government has gradually come to that conclusion. They have put it on ice, but have not decided whether or not to introduce corporation tax in the next period. We warned against the consequences for North Norway of the Right and the Advance Party's policies before the previous elections. It was a timely warning. The cuts did not come into the wrapper that the Right and Advance Party proposed to us, but Nord-Norway has received several hundred million dollars in cuts through the conversion of the cost keys and the strong cut in regional development funds on which the Northern Norwegian county municipalities have suffered a significant loss. It is not least a problem with boat and ferry routes. I also notice that the men from the Right and the Advance Party use considerable makeup to present their community arrangements. They omit mentions of 2017. The reality is that the action space for the municipalities goes down by 0.4 pst. in the year we're in. There's nothing to talk about, but the reality is that the local economy in this period has been on happiness and piety and completely dependent on the variations in tax revenue, not on government priorities. I am pleased that the government is following up on Rigmor Aasrud, former Minister of Renewal, the initiative for digitisation. A prerequisite for the whole country to be digitised and everyone to be included is the development of infrastructure. Unfortunately, the government cut the broadband bet. Ultimately, this is about an entirely basic choice — school and care for people most or more million to billionaires.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1312	It is true that the debate is coming to an end, and although this debate was not as long as Thursday's debate, it is very important to fill the municipalities with economics, which we are discussing today. On Thursday, we discussed the structure, tasks and trust in the municipal sector for the future. When it comes to economics, I understand very well that it's not that easy to attack us for what we've done. Therefore attack a rather what we have told us to do in the next period. When one was able to find a small difference in the shade of how we were talking about property taxes, one of the main points of this debate was that the Progress Party is very concerned about removing and reducing the property tax. It's not a surprise. It's no surprise either that even though we work well in government, the Right Party and the Progress Party have two different programs and are two different parties, but we want the same thing, and we go in the same direction. I would have been more concerned when it comes to who should cooperate with the other side. There's a range of parties that want different things, and it can be far more demanding for them to become a few than it becomes for us and the Right with our friends the Christian People's Party and the Left, who will go in the same direction. The company tax was also the representative Pedersen a little inside. The ambition is that we should return some of the corporate tax to the municipalities. We want municipalities to live from the creation of value locally and less of transfers, so it says in the proposition that this comes back to us. The issue of parental care is also one of debate. It's actually a little strange that one first refuses to get fresh funds through a scheme that's being set up for consultation, and then one then stumbles over the fact that one doesn't have any fresh resources for the care of the elderly. I'm very excited about the summary of the municipalities that are part of the scheme. I registered that in my home state, Hordaland, the municipality of Os has gone out in a local way and said that after one year the experience is good, and this is a good model to ensure that the money is present when the need arises. Arild Grande also had an article that reflected that one has little confidence that local politicians can spend money on things they think are right. In the red-green exhibition window in his home district, Trendelag, we see from talk that Trondheim has received more money under our government than they received in the time of the red-green government. It is a little special that one then wants to collect the money again from Trondheim Municipality and instead let the municipality search them and report, with all the bureaucracy it requires. In fact, I have more confidence that Trondheim is able to dispose of its money, much like the fact that the rest of the Norwegian municipalities are able to dispose of their money in a reasonable way. So in the next case we are going to discuss, the matter of municipal freedom, we show that in practice we have great confidence in municipal politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1323	Of course, it may sometimes seem that in Stortinget you have a competition for who is most important to the municipalities. I think everyone is for the municipalities, but there has been a discussion here about growth and increased economic space. I must say that it should really be indisputable even if the Workers' Party is trying to say something else. It should be indisputable that the real growth of free income per capita has been higher during this period than in the previous government. 1.2 pst. growth per capita is still higher than 0,6 pst. growth per capita. I also hear that the Workers' Party has developed a love for Unio's analyses and figures. It is almost striking how often the UN is mentioned, and equally striking how the Workers' Party obviously avoids the local authorities' own assessments. KS says, and has otherwise said and shown throughout this period, that the economic space for the municipal sector has increased. KS also says that the 2018 scheme provides the basis for good welfare services and good social development. You shouldn't believe that when you heard the opposition in this room. But it's of course little opportunistic to refer to that kind of statements when you seem to be most concerned with black-painting the situation. From the right-hand side, we're not concerned with idyllizing the situation, we've never done that. All these four years we have said that it is very important that the Stortinget communicates a sober and realistic attitude towards the local economy. We're strengthening the municipal economy, but it's still such that the municipalities themselves have to make adjustments and priorities within the framework they have. Nor can the Workers' Party escape the fact that more health sisters and more midwives provide more well-being. This is what the Norwegian municipalities deliver – e.g. more health sisters and more midwives. One cannot escape the fact that municipalities that give more home visits to newborns provide better well-being. One cannot escape the fact that when several first-class health studies are conducted, health promotion and prevention are effective, and this improves well-being. This is the strengthening of the economic space of the municipal sector – that is why we do it. Local authorities manage the responsibility and provide better services and welfare to citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1336	I came into my office, and then I suddenly heard that Keshvari's representative was running some magical numbering operations that I've heard for a long time. I thought he was talking about this government building 10,000 hospitals. I'm sorry if I'm wrong, but that's how I perceived it. You big world! Now let me clean this up. I want everyone to remember what the health minister uses to say, that it takes from four to seven to eight years from a municipality starts planning places, until the key is in the door. So the construction and finishing of spaces has to be done over two periods of size, as a rule. What did we experience on the red-green watch? Well, until 2008, there was almost no completed hospitalization. With easy head count, you can see why. It was because the municipalities with Erna Solberg as the municipal minister did not dare to start building hospitals. That was also why the investment grant was introduced in 2008 by the Stoltenberg II Government. Slowly the municipalities began to dry to build. We increased the subsidy rate in 2010. The current government increased it in 2014. These increases have also given a push to the municipalities, so you have the courage to build hospitals. The fasite – SSB numbers – is: Between 2008 and 2015, it was requested and promised – so the application had been accepted – 12 300 places. They completed 7,700 new and renovated places. Anyone who tries a little head count knows that they all, most of the places were started on the red-green watch – started on the red-green watch, but finished, many of them, from 2013 to 2015. Then it has taken up a little bit more because the municipalities have had the courage to search. But a small warning: the annual growth rate in municipal care and care has almost halved during this government compared to the previous one. Then the question is, how long does it take for the municipalities to realize these sick homes that they have been promised? Because it is not just the construction costs that have to work, it is the operating costs as well. That's why I ask everyone to stop this numerical magic in terms of commitments and requested places, and that there were only so many places then, and now there is. We have to look at this over a long time. The parental care system needs something more than fine counting edge systems. We have to think wider and better, because now it's my generation that goes into the ranks of pensioners, and we want it completely different.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1349	I can join one thing of what the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen said, and that's that we don't need any number magic. We need to look at the results. When we know that the Workers' Party's health policy spokesman had to complain about the red-green effort for the elderly in his eight years, most of it says. When I drew, it was because the representative Helga Pedersen complained that it was cut some tens of millions to broadband expansion. In this way, it should be taken into account that private investment has increased by billions. Last week, the Minister for Transport and I presented new regulations that will mean more broadband to people and businesses throughout Norway. We have put in place a new digging order that has been disputed in the last 20 years. According to Telenor, they can reduce their costs by up to 25 p.m., and they say that they can save large amounts, meaning that ‘we can expand fiber to several areas’. That's what matters, and that's why there's a difference between whether there's a red-green government that rules, or whether there's a bourgeois government that rules. We're going through. And we are now implementing changes that mean more broadband out to people, out to business. The representative Helga Pedersen also said something else. She said that there were random tax revenues that had saved the municipal economy. There's a reason to remember that we've had an oil price that has fallen from $120 to the $30 to $40 barrel. The government of Solberg has been driving Norway for a very demanding time. But also in the budget statements we have presented to the Stortinget, there has been a larger room for action than the red-green ones provided. If we look at the action space minus demography and retirement, in 2011, it was proposed 50 million. kr. to the municipalities, in 2012 minus 150 million. kr, while in 2015, with civil government, it was proposed to be SEK 1.1 billion. SEK, in 2016 900 million. SEK, in 2018 450 million to 950 million. kr. So both when we look at what we've proposed, and when we look at the results, there's been an increased space for action. This is important because it's just about school, care for the elderly and how we're going to be able to lift the most vulnerable among us. We contribute to good and predictable frameworks, but also the tools, so that municipalities can think new and ensure increased freedom of choice. Because I believe that the representative, Tove Karoline Knutsen too, wants more freedom of choice, and she will have that with continued bourgeois rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1360	We don't need numerical magic -- that's absolutely right. We have to look at the results -- that's right. Local government politicians in Eidsberg have seen the results. The result was that they had to introduce property taxes, if not there would be a standstill in the municipality of Eidsberg. Governments continue to announce that broadband expansion is going well. I can inform the Council of State that I think there will be very divided opinions on that statement, with or without the digging order, as he said. It's about prioritizing, and it's the tax cut to Norway's richest that's been the government's most important priority. It has not been an early effort. There have been tax cuts to Norway's richest who have been at the top of the government's agenda. Then it becomes property tax. This government then ensures that the inhabitants of the municipalities have to pay for the tax cuts to Norway's richest. Then we notice that although the representative Njåstad believes that there are nuance differences between the Right and the Advance Party in terms of property tax, it is not. We hear that here in the hall today, it's an abyss. Nearly its own State Council strongly warns against the policies of the Progress Party in the field of property taxation. The issue is that municipalities need and should receive more money to develop schools, care, business development, urban development and urban development. But if they are going to get that money now, it turns out that they have to go to the residents and collect property taxes. That's what reality is out there. The Labour Party has other proposals regarding the local economy. We've had it every year in this magnification period, and we have it now. That would give the municipalities a good and proper puff in the right direction. But the Right Party and the Advance Party have their priorities, and those priorities have been tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1375	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1380	The representative Jensen from the Right says that if we get more health sisters, it gets better health. Yes, it does. That is why SV prioritises it. If we get more teachers in school, there will be more students being seen and going to be fine. That is why we are giving priority to this. If we don't get more employees in the care of the elderly in the future, it's going to go wrong. Therefore, SV prioritises it over tax relief to the richest. It is a choice we make in SV, but the right has spent their money on other things and cannot afford this, and pushes the responsibility down on the municipalities. So to broadband. Yes, the first government did when they came to power, was cut from 160 million. to 50 million. kr. So the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have helped them to kick them a little bit. The tomb rule will probably help well in Bergen and in Drammen, but beyond the countryside it will have to contribute to, otherwise it will not be expanded.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1388	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1393	To the Council of State Sanner and everyone else who keeps quoting what the representative Torgeir Micaelsen said in 2013: I know what he said. He said the following: We have made the mistake that we have believed that after a short time the number of sites requested from the municipalities will materialize in completed spaces. We do not have the right to vote, because it may take time for the municipalities to complete the space, and you may not be afraid to start at all. That is why we need to think more and more about care for the elderly. Then he recommended the government to do the same. The government hasn't listened to that, so you're still doing the plate trick. That's not very wise, because we need completely different tools in the care of the elderly. So for freedom of choice. I am very much for freedom of choice, but there should be freedom of choice on what matters, so that you can have your everyday life, and that one can decide – within a framework – what kind of people should come home – individuals, not businesses, not businesses. You don't know what kind of people are in one or the other or the touching company. It's not freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1400	We who live in the districts are still concerned about what the right side might think of if they were to gain confidence against assumption for four new years. We have no idea how much tax cuts the right-hand side will prioritise in the next period. There's no answer to that. The tax cuts that have come, we don't necessarily see much in the district, we don't have many capitals. Then it's even worse when government cuts regional development funds at the same time. We have no idea what the government is going to do about the income system, which has affected many of the municipalities in the districts. We've been cut in broadband. Now I hear the Council of State says that private investment has increased by billions. It might sound nice if you live in Bærum or in central strata in the East, but for us who live there don't pay to expand broadband, it's not the private investment that benefits us. That's why we need the community. That's why we need the state to go in with the funds to expand broadband where it's not commercially profitable. It's very nice with a new digging order. As Andersen's representative said, it will probably be helpful in some big cities, where you have a little bit of tangled things with it. But I think I can promise the council that if he brings money to broadband and wants to expand more broadband in the municipalities of Valdres, I think the municipalities there are willing to dig anything up at any time – we are willing to do anything. It's not the digging order that's been the problem with us, there's a lack of government dollars. This government has cut in government dollars. If we win the election, we can promise that there will be more broadband expansion across the country, not just where it is commercially profitable. Fortunately, it is soon a choice. Those who think that you want to expand both city and country, they should vote on the Labour Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1409	There is no disagreement that there is also a need for state resources to ensure progress in more broadband where people live. But to claim that it has no significance for the development of broadband when you can cut costs up to 25 p.m., you almost have to come from the Workers' Party. Because what we're now implementing changes, that means something. It means something to people, and it means something to the business community in District Norway. Then I hear that the representative of Lauvås says that the big money is spent on tax relief for the richest. That's wrong. The large amount of money is spent on welfare in municipalities. It is well-being in the municipalities that the big money has gone to. It is road development throughout Norway that the large amount of money has gone into. It is health and health care that the big money has gone to. But then it's true that we've also cut taxes for ordinary people – $8,000 for a family with ordinary income. I think it means something to a normal family to reduce their taxes by $8,000. And it means something to those who are going to invest in Norwegian jobs across the country that they have reduced the strange wealth tax. And that would mean something if the Workers' Party were to raise taxes by at least 15 billion. kr in the next period. That means people get higher taxes. This means that there will be higher taxes on Norwegian jobs. That means it'll be more demanding to get a job for people who need it. So the political differences are clear and clear: a civil government provides for increased investment in welfare while promoting innovation in the public sector, while what we have heard from alternatives from the red-green, is largely about increasing taxes, and it will make it even more difficult for the many who are still looking for a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1416	The representative, Helga Pedersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1421	The biggest tax cuts to the Right and the Advance Party have gone to those who have the most. With the Workers' Party's very concrete tax policy, on which we are going to vote, people with incomes of NOK 600 000 or less will have equal to or less tax than today, while we are alerting sharpness for those who have millions of income. I think that's a relatively strong understanding of that. We have one government party that says they have confidence in the municipalities, but that will prohibit the same municipalities from levying property taxes. The second government party totally disagrees with that. It's not a nuance, it's a fundamental disagreement. But the reality is that government parties see that property taxes are absolutely necessary to avoid cuts in welfare, as a result of the 20 billion. The same two government parties have decided here on the Stortinget. If the local economy had been as good as the government claims, it would not have been necessary for municipalities to increase the property tax by more than a third.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1428	I was basically done with my post, but I think the black paint from the Workers' Party reaches new heights, where one puts on a little emotion and a little volume and calls all too tax relief and specialty. It gets too daunting to sit and listen to it. If you look at the result in this period, the Christian People's Party has been with this government and got in place 1.3 billion. kr for early effort in 1–4. class. The Labour Party will now go further and have a norm at municipal level, while we want it at school, so that it becomes a concrete result, and one cannot trick with numbers afterwards. We've received hundreds of millions, invested in several kindergarten teachers, 2,600 more kindergartens, we've increased the cash support, increased the one-time benefit, got 83 million. kr to family protection – I have a long list, which I think it would be fair for the Workers' Party to take along. Let me also mention 30 million. SEK against trafficking in human beings, 320 million. We have raised the minimum pension for single minimum pensioners, we have raised the apprentice's allowance, and we have maintained the aid rate. That's how I can go on forever, so I think that when you're going to evaluate the whole situation, you should take it with you and not just the black-painting situation. It's been arduous, but a reasonably useful economy in the municipalities, and we've reminded each other, after the fall in oil prices and other things, that we have to be more sober. In different situations during this four-year period, I have met in reply to claims that we should have supported the Workers' Party, and we should have received more. That's what I think has been an interesting claim, especially given that in 2013 the Workers' Party was the ones who were clear that they would not have a Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1437	Unfortunately, I have not been able to follow the whole debate today, because we have presented the position on the transport plan. But I have got a bit of the interview. What at least there is no doubt about – first to get rid of the last of the Christian People's Party – is that you have followed poorly if you feel that the door is not open at the Workers' Party in view of cooperation. So at least it's signed out. So it means something who controls, there's no doubt about it. We've got a government that priorities differently, and that's very good. It's at least very good when we're going out and running election campaigns so people see the difference. The Council of State is standing on this pulpit and trying to exonerate the tax cuts. I have to say that it seems very surprising that you cannot admit that with regard to the large tax cuts, the big money has gone to those who have the most from before. You try to turn the tone the other way around, that when the Workers' Party is going to increase the taxes, it's the ones with the lowest incomes, which are actually going to be hit. It's not hanging in hops and of course it's not like that. That's what Helga Pedersen says, people with a income of between 500,000 and 600 000 kroner and below, will get equal to or less tax on the tax treatment of the Workers' Party. Then the community economy is important, and not least I who have been in municipal policy for many years, eight years as rapporteur. There's a difference between governments, and it notices the inhabitants very well. Then you can hit your chest now because you've had some years of good tax entrances. I don't know if it's the government that's going to have the greatest credit for it. In any case, the Workers' Party has, in all these years, had a significantly better arrangement for the municipalities than the government has. You can't get away with that. So to broadband, yeah, it's like today that it's a digital divide. If you live outside of densely built strips, it's just 37 pst. accessible on high-speed broadband. If you're lucky and you live in densely populated areas, it's 96 pst. And then there are big differences between the states. Yeah, it's good to do something with the digging instructions, but it's not just the depth it says about when to roll out broadband, it has something to do with length and distances too. Therefore, it is necessary to be willing to assume responsibility and use state money to develop broadband in cooperation with commercials. That's not what this government wants. It's small money. The first thing they did is they took the amount down from 160 million. to 50 million. kr. They did so in both 2015 and 2016. We want to do something about that, and that's why we're putting forward a transport plan where we're lifting broadband as a new investment in the transport plan and adding 6 billion. NOK the next 12 years - we're going to spend 500 million. kr per year for a good broadband coverage regardless of where they live. Then the council can sit in the hall and slide for its lack of bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1450	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1455	The big money has gone to welfare and roads. Yes, of course, there has been a lot of money for well-being and roads, but there has been a lot of money for tax cuts. Governments refer to the tax cuts of ordinary people – SEK 8 000 – while individuals with the largest assets in this country have received millions of dollars in tax cuts from the state councils. Then the tax cuts of these common people – as they are called – have been eaten up by various tax increases, and many municipalities have seen to introduce property taxes because the municipalities have not had room to drive the necessary development. That's what's going on. This is the policy, that is how Norway is now governed, there is division and the differences are increasing. Now it's time for a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1460	Some statements deserve to be commented on, because they say something about the attitudes of those who express them. It was Knutsen's representative who made me take the floor. She put it this way: "I am very much for freedom of choice, but there should be freedom of choice for what matters." This could only have been pronounced from one of the Workers' Party, because it is only politicians from the Workers' Party who are skeptical of such self-confidence that they believe it is the political parties who know best what are important choices for each of us. Which freedom of choice means something is probably too important for the Workers' Party to think we can choose for ourselves, and then there is no real freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1468	It is very strange that emerges during this debate, for the reality is that the Workers' Party actively supported reductions in company taxes and most of the reliefs in personal taxes, with some exceptions, among other things. pensioners. This amounts to between 11 and 12 billion. NOK of the reliefs the Workers' Party is talking about. If we take with us the inheritance fee – which the Workers' Party has not supported, but also not said clearly whether they want to reintroduce – then it is 2-3 billion. kr to there. If we start adding up all of the changes that the Workers' Party itself has been involved in, we're talking about 4-6 billion. That's the difference, despite some of them spending 20 billion, some 21 billion. And some 25 billion. kr. That's 25 billion. NOK which is the correct amount. But when we subtract from everything that the Workers' Party has been in on itself, it's not going to be the big number that they want to produce to be the whole room of action. If we look at the budget that we have, 1 300 billion. kr, this amounts to less than 2 pst. of it. My question to the Workers' Party, to which I hope they can answer, is which of these changes they have been making, they now want to withdraw and reverse, because they believe that it is not possible to do almost any things, or that anything could have been done better just because you had not taken advantage of these reliefs. For the Labour Party has voted for themselves. The representative Pedersen of the Workers' Party pointed out that if the local economy had been as good as the citizens would have, there would have been no need for property taxes. No, property taxes are not necessary. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left showed in the capital of the country over 18 years that this was not necessary, and good services were given to the citizens. It is no wonder that the new Oslo City Council has to introduce property taxes when it re-assess the care of the elderly and only where there is an increase of between 50 and 60 million. kr in costs, and when no one manages anything as easily as handling waste and imposes additional costs on the capital. So it would be very nice if, during this debate, the Workers' Party could clarify which of the benefits they've been on, which they want to reverse, because they're using a place between 20 and 25 billion. kr in tax bill as the main argument in all the debates we have in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1481	André N. Skelstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1486	It could almost be rhetorical to ask the representative Lauvås, but I see that he has no more speaking time. Perhaps the representative Sund, who has the floor after me, and who has the time to speak again, can answer the question, what will this extra tax intake be? Yes, of course, it comes from a change in the tax system, but it also comes from a well-functioning business that pays taxes into the community – and that’s what it’s all about. There is also no disagreement with the Left that broadband is important. That is why we have also prioritised it in every alternative budget we have put forward. But I'm surprised when one from the Workers' Party first wants to do the big shift, that one does not then choose to give priority to mobile coverage, which is also a large vacuum on the roads around the country. This is not least also about road safety, when first using broadband in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1493	It's quite strange to sit here and listen to this debate, because in a familiar style, the Right Party and Advance Party people go up to the pulpit and call what we other people say for black paint. What is actually a political, real disagreement, the Right People call black paint. For us, this is a real disagreement. We sincerely want to spend the large amount of money on school and on care for the elderly. That's what's most important to us. So it is said from the pulpit that the government's tax haven works and that it leads to more jobs. I come from Rogaland, and the experience from Rogaland shows that it doesn't work. We're never going to owe the government for the oil price, we have no reason to do that, but we can nevertheless point to the government when it thinks that this tax is good for jobs and business. At home there is a high level of unemployment, and there is a fairly difficult situation for a lot of people. So telling you that this leads to more jobs is proven wrong. What the government is doing is weakening the community, weakening our ability to strengthen the school and strengthen the care of the elderly. So it's also very special to notice that all we're going to measure in the red-green parts is what we did before 2013. We have always, since 2013, also delivered our budgets, which have been stronger and larger, given that the community will have greater revenues to produce good supply in the elderly and health sector. Several people have been up here and tried to create a picture that we do not have contact out there and do not know what we are doing, and that the government parties have a particularly good contact out there. We still have – and have always had – very good contact with our people out there and ordinary people out there, in municipalities and in counties. They are concerned that they are not able to deliver the service they believe they should deliver to their inhabitants. I have been a municipal politician for 16 years in the past – and a few years in the state. I know how it feels out there when you don't have enough money to do it a shell. Then no one must come to tell me that 20 billion. Tax relief would not be important for our municipal and state politicians to have in order to really give to the citizens what they should have. Then I have to say that when I hear the representative Keshvari tell about good services delivered in Oslo earlier, before the new city council that is now running, how good they were before that, and that they have not needed property taxes before, I wonder if the representative Keshvari has ever been out in Oslo school and in the care of the elderly and seen the importance of the introduction of property taxes in order to be able to deliver the service that people deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1508	Taxes have been one of the biggest projects of this government, and the biggest tax cuts have gone to those who have the most. You just can't run from that. When the municipal minister here talks about the creation of jobs, he has no cover for it. There is no evidence that tax relief creates jobs, as he claims – as the Sund representative also commented on. If the Right Party and the Advance Party come to power again, you have to do even more tax cuts, and it has to go beyond something in our welfare state. The differences in the country are going to increase at even faster pace than they are doing today, with the consequences it gets. For the Workers' Party, a public common school and equal right to education are a fundamental right to ensure equal opportunities for all. A common learning venue also helps us as a society to succeed in equality, integration and social cohesion. Ensuring all access to knowledge and competence is not just a good thing for individuals; it is crucial that Norway succeeds in creating new industries, safe welfare and developing the public and private sectors. Being able to write, calculate and read is absolutely essential for success in education and working life. Efforts need to be made much earlier, in kindergarten and in early school years. The main challenge in the primary school is that one in four students today do not complete secondary school. Students who are in the process of falling out of higher education therefore need better follow-up, and this must be done much faster than today. The Labour Party will implement a reform of early work in kindergarten and school to ensure that much more students complete the school. It's more important than tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1525	I think at least we can agree that it's getting closer to choices. A debate on local democracy and welfare in the municipalities has now become a debate on tax cuts. I think at least we can see that the policy that the government has pursued, in good cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, is producing good results. After experiencing a shock in the oil price drop and losing 50,000 jobs, we now see that unemployment is on its way down, growth is on its way up, and more jobs are created. I also think we can rejoice that the government through targeted efforts now also promises the most vulnerable among us. Among other things, the proportion of people who are homeless has fallen from more than 6000 to less than 4000. For 20 years there have been about 6,000 homeless people in this country. Now, through targeted efforts, we've brought it down to less than 4,000. The proportion of children who are homeless has fallen by almost 70 pst. It shows that the government is able to facilitate growth, jobs and new businesses, while at the same time strengthening well-being and raising the most vulnerable among us. Then we can have a discussion about tax cuts and who they're going to go to. The reality is that it is the combination of an effective set of instruments, both on transport, research, knowledge and district industries, which means that we now have a strong growth in travel, fisheries and renewable resources. This is a good development that we want to strengthen in the years to come. We see that the unemployment rate is going down, that the growth rate is going up. More jobs are created. We must strengthen the policy of the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1536	The representative of Mazyar Keshvari has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1541	To the representative of Sund: Joda, I've been a lot out in the business of the Municipality of Oslo, and it's known that Oslo has some of the best schools in the country, as the new councillor from the Workers' Party acknowledged. She said she had come to the deck table. We get social mobility where others don't. However, I record that no one in the Workers' Party is able to answer the questions I asked them – and that is quite interesting – namely, the factors that are involved in their active participation in supporting reductions in company tax and most of the reliefs in the personal tax, which amount to 11-12 billion. kr, that they have been involved in the relief of the property tax on the valuation discount on shares and assets, which results in the actual difference of 5 and 6 billion. kr, despite their later appearance as 25 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1548	The councils go up here and say that he thought we were going to discuss local democracy and the challenges of regional democracy, and that he thinks it's strange that this has become a debate on tax cuts. Once again, it's the funding of the welfare state, or the welfare goods, that's the key to how we actually spend the money. If the municipality is to produce good services, the large amount of money must also be able to go to the municipality. Then you can't just sweep under the carpet that the 20-billion-dollar. kr as a user for tax cuts, those who have the most from before benefit. It has to be possible to point that out, for 20 billion. kr is a large amount of money for the Workers' Party, there is a lot of money, which you could use for good service production. How one spends the big money is the most important thing for the Workers' Party. For us, it has been important in this debate to say that we recognise the job you do in the municipalities and the counties, but we are also among those who recognise that they need money to further develop and strengthen their services. Then I must say to the representative Keshvari: I do not doubt that the representative has been out a lot, and there is no doubt that there is a lot in Oslo and in other municipalities that are good. But it's also like when you're out – even in Oslo School – you see that there's a lot of kids who don't get the help they need, in the form of early efforts. There are too many kids, even in Oslo School, who fall off in the fifth grade, and then the race is run in terms of how they're going to make it in time. These are the ones we're seeing again that fall out of high school. There are many who are waiting to be accommodated in worthy care for the elderly. When these problems are not solved, we cannot sit – or stand – here in this room and tell us content. That's when the Labour Party says: we want to strengthen local democracy and regional democracy. Then we have to spend the money where they're going to be spent, so that this is actually going to happen, and that they're going to benefit our young people and older people, and not those who have the most from before.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1561	When Jens Stoltenberg was head of the Workers' Party and also the Prime Minister, he talked about creating and sharing. The representative Sund's articles were just about how we're going to spend the money. The representative Sund says that we need to be able to discuss how to spend the money. Of course, we're going to discuss how we're going to spend the money, but we're also going to discuss how we're going to create the values. Because it's now time for our welfare society to demand funding, and we get funding by getting the growth power of the economy up. This means that we need to provide entrepreneurs, for the large enterprises, for the medium-sized enterprises and for the small enterprises – for value creation throughout the country. That is what the debate on fiscal policy is about. So it's not like it's just about taxes; it's also about investment in research, in knowledge, in roads, in railway. It's the combination of these tools that means that we're now seeing unemployment drop, growth rise, and value creation. What is the Workers' Party's greeting to those who stand every day and create new jobs is that they're going to get 15 billion. kr in increased taxes. There is no good message for those who are on, working and creating new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1572	The representative Eirin Sund has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1578	What Jens Stoltenberg said, that it is important to create to share, is something the Workers' Party lived after then and lives after now. The Labour Party has shown in our budget proposals, including in the last four years, that we spend a lot of money on measures to create jobs – both in climate technologies, entrepreneurship, transport, etc. But then there's some money that's left when it's created and it's going to be shared. Who are we going to distribute them to? One of the most important things we think they can be distributed to is school and kindergarten. Jens Stoltenberg has said very much wisely. In addition to saying that it is a good idea to create before a part, he has also said that perhaps one of the most important things we can do for jobs and business is to secure nursery places for everyone, so that parents can go to work. So the Council of State doesn't have to worry that the Workers' Party both now, as before, and always in the future will be concerned that we're going to create in order to share. But then we disagree on how we divide the money that is being created in the right way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1583	The representative, Stine Renate Håheim, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1588	We have come a long way in the debate when the Right-State Councils begin to maim about the last time the Workers' Party ruled the country. I also want us to come back to that. Of course, we should create to share, but that's exactly why we're talking about broadband, about the importance of regional development funds, about the importance of access to venture capital for entrepreneurs who have good ideas. And that's exactly why the Workers' Party is also going to elections, for example. drawing up the Inland Committee from the drawer and realising projects that are important in the region I come from. Then you have to be almost right-wing to be able to be surprised that a debate on welfare is also about taxes, because it is very closely linked. Because when you prioritize 20 billion. kr in tax cuts to those who already have the most, it becomes less well-being for most people. The problem with this government is a record high oil money usage. At the same time, unemployment is record high and almost no jobs are created in the private sector. It's time for a new majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1595	It is important that this debate is about local democracy and how we should have good municipalities. I understand that the Council of State will talk about it, even though he may not remember everything that happened on Thursday, because you can ask yourself if it was local democracy that was put in the high seat when the municipalities were coerced with a hard hand. At least it was not perceived that way in my county, neither in Bindal nor in Tysfjord, and I would not think it felt that way in the other municipalities either. You try to make the tax increases for the Workers' Party something else than that. I would like to remind both the Council of State and others of the period before this government took over. Then we had a higher tax rate. Then new jobs were created. In fact, five times more jobs were created than under the government we now have. In addition, two thirds of them were in the private sector. Yes, the figures show that under Stoltenberg 45 000 new jobs were created each year. Under Erna Solberg it's been created a little over 8 000. That is the reality of the figures. So to stand here and claim that a tax system with tax changes from the Workers' Party will be the end of business, is to drag it very, very far. You try here on some jokes about how the municipalities operate. Maybe you should have checked some facts first? The renovation in Oslo, which is being hoarded – yes, who put the renovation in Oslo on the market? Who made the tender criteria that gave it to them? Are they the ones sitting today? No, it was some of the last ones who ran Oslo before that time, did. So maybe you should check the facts before you start criticizing someone who's got this trapped. Of course, when we are going to have a large-scale digitalisation and broadband investment, it also includes what is going on in mobility and that bit. In the end, it is also the case that we have a government that changes the criteria for the municipalities, for property taxes that are currently paid to the municipalities from power are reduced under this government. Yeah, it's actually like the powerhouses get almost 400 million. kr less in 2017 because the government has not adjusted the capitalisation rate. It doesn't seem like they intend to do it either, and they don't, yes, the challenges we're discussing today, for 2018, are considerably worse for almost 200 municipalities if it doesn't get in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1608	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1624	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1633	Let me first praise the Left for over time both being concerned about increasing municipal freedom and having creative input into this reform work, as we see in the proposal for a representative. Thanks also to the Committee for a good process in this matter. Local self-government has been frequently discussed in this room during this ageing period — no wonder when greater freedom for the municipalities is one of the deepest traces of today’s government leaving behind in its first period, among others. through strengthening the local economy; reduced use of ear-labelled products the transfer of multiple tasks to the municipalities; increased throughput for municipalities in land-related matters fewer time thieves imposed by the State in the municipalities access by municipalities to review by the State in the courts; better services and more tasks for municipalities through the community reform It's a bit of a package! The rapporteurs thus have every reason to be proud of what the Left has contributed to putting in place over these four years. Let me make a few comments on a few of the concrete proposals that have been put forward. First of all, tax: municipalities today have considerable freedom to tax both income and property. But for a long number of years, no Norwegian municipality has used this freedom to impose a taxpayer on its inhabitants below the maximum. Consequently, removing this upper access framework will have only one effect: increasing income tax for the inhabitants of a number of municipalities. An upper limit on the ability of municipalities to determine taxpayers is simply a liberal protection of Norwegian citizens for predictability of their own net income and against a public expenditure explosion, and a corresponding reduction in the ability of each family to organise their own daily lives in the desired way – and by means of its own revenues. Limited taxation of income from work also has another important aspect. In the Right, we have for a long time been clear that getting as much work as possible is the best tool we have against exclusion and unwanted income differences – and for the integration, personal development and further development of our trust society. If we are to encourage more people to go out of work, to work full-time or to work longer towards the end of their working life, it is worth working. Sharpened taxes on income are moving in the opposite direction. If the working line is the answer to several of the country's major challenges, which we believe also the Left believes, the tool cannot be reducing incentives to work. So a little about alcohol: An important attitude in Norwegian alcohol policy is that alcohol and driving do not belong together. It is therefore difficult to say that it is obvious that gas stations, whether in a dense place or as an isolated building along Norwegian highways, should be opened for alcohol sales, no matter what level of strength we are talking about. At the same time, it is easy to sympathise with the proposal for a sample scheme in kiosks in selected municipalities with the placing on the market of low alcoholic beverages, because it is unfairly illogical for a small shop and a large kiosk side by side, with a rather different range of products, to have different rules to deal with. In the right, however, we consider such an extension of the alcohol turnover as part of the alcohol policy of the four non-socialist parties in this ageing period has an agreement to remain firm. We will therefore vote against the Left's proposal. Last week, the Stortinget took a unanimous decision to ask the government to submit a report on the commercial sector. It cannot reasonably be presented until the next large-scale period. It would be natural for the proposals that the Left today are promoting adjustments to the turnover of alcohol to be assessed in such a context, and I am sure that the Left will ensure that this is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1681	I'm going to try to enjoy the Greatness of being short and say that what can and should be decided locally should be decided locally. It's a good principle. Of course, it must be balanced with the whole of the demand for equivalent services across the country when we now see this proposal for municipal freedom. I note that the Left in the Municipal Reform, as far as regional reform is concerned, did not prioritise task transfer. It was a structural reform and not a task reform. Otherwise, I refer to the Workers' Party's remarks in the setting, and I record that the Left is alone on the proposals No. 2-6.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1690	Thanks to the case spokesman for a very thorough review of all the proposals made by the Left in this period in cooperation with the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, mainly. It was a good list, and if I can allow myself to add to the list of everything we've been given, the basic law of local self-government is also one thing that this Stortinget collection has been committed to, and that just acknowledges that the municipalities of Norway have great freedom, and they have been given greater confidence by the Stortinget now than they have ever had before. If we look at it a little bit and compare Nordic municipalities with municipalities in the rest of Europe, Nordic municipalities have great freedom and a large portfolio of tasks. The farther south one comes, the fewer tasks the municipalities have. The Nordic municipalities may be those in the world that have the most developed task portfolio and also the greatest possible freedom to solve it the way they want to. So if we look at it a lot, we should be happy in Norway with the way our local democracy works and the role and position it has in society. Nevertheless, it is always useful to take such a debate as this and think through and check out: does a truly enough municipal freedom have? And it's always demanding when one comes up with single suggestions that we have all sorts of ideas about. Should a lazy local self-government be allowed to do the same? If you look at Left's one proposal, which goes on the tax island, it's a very exciting idea to have free tax dollars in municipalities, to be able to increase and lower taxes. In a way, there's something that appeals to me a little bit by thinking in that direction. It would be very exciting to have municipal elections when one also managed the income page and had been able to compete with municipalities about being the most attractive for people to live in. So we know that today we have a system where one has the ability to lower the tax holders and reduce the taxes, one has the possibility of removing the property tax. We see that there are very few municipalities that use the tool. I don't want to be involved as a Progress Party man in helping to make it easier for red-green municipal politicians to increase taxes in Norway. Then that principle is more important than municipal freedom. But all the freedom to reduce taxes, of course, I will support the whole heart. Another proposal, which was also submitted by the case-speaker on behalf of the Right, was the extension of the right of discovery and the sale of petrol stations – a proposal that one would like to imagine that the Progress Party would support from the perspective of the most possible freedom locally, but we are also bound by the agreement we have with the Christian People's Party during this period, which is that the alcohol policy should remain firm. I remind you that we have taken a number of measures to simplify local authorities’ policies in the field of alcohol. Among other things, you can pass the current license rules to the next period. One does not have to record it in each period. It is a simplification measure that we have found room for within the agreement with the Christian People's Party. Nevertheless, when we write history after this four-year period, there's one area where we've really strengthened local self-government, like the Left, in conjunction with the rest of us, is going to have a great deal of credit for, basically, land policy and planning and building law policy. There, this magnificence has seen traces behind it. Where, in the past, we had a very strong government governance – overarching the municipalities – we have gone in the opposite direction by simplifying the legislation and being clear there. But perhaps most importantly, the signals sent from the Council of State to the statesmen that now a local self-government should be given greater emphasis than today. This signal means a lot, in addition to the individual cases dealt with by the Council of State, where a member of the local government now receives local assistance, where a member of the local government received assistance in the previous period. It is the most important signal that one acknowledges that local politicians in Norway are doing an extremely important job. When they weigh differing considerations against each other, collapse, government and statesmen shall place more emphasis on it than one has done before. There's a really set of tracks behind it. The Norwegian people and the Norwegian municipalities note that there is greater confidence in local democracy. Therefore, this debate is important to address. Although the Left does not get multiples for the four-five proposals they make, they have set track tracks during this period by giving the municipalities more autonomy. It's a whole-hearted support.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1711	Some representative proposals are more comprehensive than others, and this is probably one of those clearly in the category ‘comprehensive’. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Left that it is a good principle that decisions should be made at the lowest appropriate level. Strengthening local self-government is a fundamental position also in the Christian People's Party, where we share the view of the Left. We are opposed to policies that are governed by systems or ideology. We have just adopted a municipal reform in which the location of power and authority has been, to a greater extent, a review melody for the municipalities, and that work is to continue. That melody is necessary for one more moment to play. We put our trust in and interpret both the opposition and the position so that when an expert committee is set up to look at regional reform, we will find many good areas where we will move policies to more local government in the regions. We also note that the use of framework laws and earmarked funds has been reduced for the last 15 years, and are satisfied with that development. We need to show confidence in local and regional politicians, and more action has been taken in the same direction lately. The latest example was with Stortinget's treatment of Prop. 64 L for 2016-2017, where state review bodies have now been required to pay high attention to the consideration of municipal self-government and where the municipalities have been given legal jurisdiction over state decisions. I would therefore like to thank the Left who, in this case, put the search light on important matters, which we are very much following. But among the good intentions of the proposal for a representative, we still find a curative expression of Left's perhaps a bit of clumsy liberalism. Of course, I am thinking of the proposal to launch a test project in which municipalities can decide whether kiosks or service stations should be granted a sales permit for alcoholic beverages. Now it is the case that someone already sells headache tablets, and I do not know where the idea came from, but at least the proposal has fortunately not been endorsed by any of the others. I understand that when a person discusses alcohol policy, he has to choose whether to follow the principles of business and business completely. I'm glad that in Norway we have a drug policy that should be based as much as possible on knowledge-based knowledge, health policy and family policy, so I don't think one should be so hurt by the fact that the Christian People's Party has got this point into the cooperation agreement. I guess we should be able to live with that. In any case, we have not realized that it is the people's call to extend the sales permit to gas stations. We also note that the government parties are not inclined to participate in this either. We appreciate that we have a cooperation at a level where we can trust each other. Otherwise, we shall be following the rapporteur on the matter of attaching the proposal to the Minutes and promoting it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1726	The representatives of the left, in their proposal for greater municipal freedom, show that the party, together with the government parties and the Christian People's Party, has carried out a regional and municipal reform aimed at larger municipalities dealing with tasks that were previously assigned to the state. The proposers believe that there are considerable opportunities to give municipalities greater local space for action, which will provide a stronger local democracy and municipal policy solutions that are more adapted to local reality. I would like to support the intentions of greater municipal freedom. Yes, I even believe that municipal freedom should also extend to the discussion of community reunification. However, the Centre Party believes that there is a need for reforms that strengthen the conditions of the municipalities in order to provide good services to the inhabitants, and for municipalities to be forward-looking developers of their communities. I am unable with my best will to see that this need for reform is highlighted in the approach of the government and the majority of the population to the municipal reform. I also have problems seeing that the proposals in this proposal for a representative on municipal freedom change so much. In proposal No 2 request that the Government promote a case to the Stortinget with proposals that restrict the State's ability to review municipal decisions to a greater extent and make less use of the designation of state transfers to the municipalities. I agree with the goal of minimum national review, and I also agree that we must have minimum ear marking. However, ear marking may be good and necessary, e.g. during a transitional period when escalation plans are in place, or when new measures are initiated in the municipalities. But I think it must be primarily through the annual budgetary processes that the government has to follow up on this. In principle, we have recently dealt with and adopted legislative changes that limit the state's competence to review municipal decisions. There was one thing about the Left and the Center parties in the Stortinget. In proposal No 1 request that municipalities be able to increase their income through increased property taxes and a freer municipal taxpayer. I believe that this proposal needs to be seen in the context of the income system and the tax equalisation between taxpayers and tax-deprived municipalities. The Centre Party may also like to be with and discuss a freer municipal taxpayer, but this must be done through a comprehensive review of the entire tax system. I believe that today's legislation on municipal property tax provides such large intervals between the lowest and highest levels that the framework is well-known as they are and will not extend that framework beyond seven per million. The centre party cannot support the proposal for greater municipal freedom to determine the time of donation and sale of alcohol. Here, we believe that national provisions are needed to address the health and other challenges in this area. Municipal freedom to allow double registration of residence is proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox I share the Committee's emphasis on the fact that the population registration in Norway is based on the assumption that each person has one registered residence address. I understand that for example. cabin municipalities could have been interesting that those who spend almost half the year in a cabin could have shared their residence, but I imagine that the bureaucracy challenges with this – who should follow where you are, and how many nights, etc. – will be invincible and something that we do not want to be on. Changing this creates challenges that need to be carefully assessed, and we cannot support the proposal as it stands today. In proposal No 6 proposes that the representatives of the Left should give municipalities greater freedom to regulate the local fish farming industry itself. We dealt with last week's Prop. 84 S for 2016-2017, where the Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party and SV, has a note that we oppose the opposition of the Ministry of Food and Fisheries to the treatment of aquaculture applications by county municipalities. We believe this is a matter where the county councils can build up competence and assume responsibility. We therefore believe that the important thing in this round is to ensure the responsibilities of county councils in this area. I would like to add that the Centre Party also believes that the municipalities need to get more to set aside land for the aquaculture industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1743	That's not all that's best localized. All Nordics have the right to good health and school services, our parents and grandparents have the right to care that sees them as the individuals they are. We can't go along with this. Which solutions work best in Steinkjer, Bø or Granvin, on the other hand, is another question. As policymakers, it is our responsibility to create a municipal structure that allows municipalities to provide the services that the government requires them to provide. And how can we do that? Well, just through the populace of Steinkjer, Bø and Granvin and in all other municipalities around the country. That is why, together with others, I have made a proposal on the Stortinget that breathes life into municipal freedom. We know that society in many ways makes the best decisions when you're closest to them. When I talk to local elected representatives around the country, the feedback is always the same: the municipalities have too little opportunity to set their own treasurer, and the state has detailed governance and overestimates countless municipal decisions. Between two levels of control there will always be a certain spark, but this has gone the wrong way. Together with the government, we have now achieved something by limiting the country's ability to review municipal decisions, but without much influence on the income side, many municipalities are left with property taxes as the only possible instrument. Property taxes are a threat to small family-run businesses, which create jobs in our communities. We believe that it is involved in tying business conditions, but I understand that municipalities – desperate for deficits – are heading for this tax. Imagine if they had had the opportunity to determine their own taxpayer instead. It would have given our communities a number of new tools in the register. If someone still thinks that property taxes are the right way to go, the community itself has to decide. It's municipal freedom in practice. The state still has a long finger in the daily functioning of the municipality. Often it is that anything other than what is important can be handled locally, but not exactly this. It is a sentence I unfortunately hear all too often from various stakeholder organisations. Local democracy can be chaotic, unbridled and jittery, and it feels too much safer to let the government take care of it. The challenge is that we snow a national political solution that will apply both in Oslo and in Verran. That is why we want the state's ability to override the municipalities to be reduced. It requires the government to take an overall assessment that results in more municipal autonomy. There are many examples of over-management that are not necessarily related. Why should not the municipalities themselves control the donations and opening hours? Why should we not be able to allow a handful of municipalities the possibility of a test system for the sale of alcohol at gas stations, which in many ways are like small local shops? If the citizens of the municipality themselves want restrictive policies, they must be allowed to do so. If, on the other hand, the municipalities believe that a person in the districts should also be able to get a beer in the evening, it must also be okay. Municipalities should also be allowed to decide whether to allow double registration and how to manage the breeding industry locally. Last week we decided in this room that we should actually now try out the so-called "Trundellag" model in terms of granting rights within breeding to municipalities. But then we should also follow up with the local taxpayer for the municipalities that have it, these funds. And is it that it's not possible to find simple solutions, simple arrangements when you might be half the time in a cabin municipality? What wouldn't that mean for the districts? What Ålesund needs to do is not necessarily the same as in Kristiansand, for most decisions are taken locally, and the larger and stronger our municipalities are growing, the more difficult it becomes for stakeholder organisations and others to defend national solutions. Therefore, it was also important that the government, the Left and the Christian People's Party stood in the process of the municipal reform. Now the municipalities that have joined together must see that we are serious about the fact that we want to rig a forward-looking government. That is why, once again, we have put municipal freedom on the agenda. Then I promote our proposals, those about which we are alone, and those about which we are with others. Then I have to say to the representative Lauvås: it is not going to be right – no matter how many times you repeat it – that there are few tasks that have now been assigned to the regions. It's actually considerably more than it's been in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1762	The representative André N. Skelstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1767	It is exciting to address these issues that the Left has travelled here, but I have to say that I believe the Left is taking a thunderous mistake when they believe that it is the municipal structure that is the most important theme in this matter as well. But it's structural issues that the municipalities absolutely should be allowed to decide, one is their own size, the other is school structure. There the municipalities should be allowed to say yes or no to whether the approved private schools should be established or not, because the municipalities are responsible for the school. I am waiting for the Left to participate in giving the municipalities maritime governance in the areas for which they are responsible. The SV has been positive about figuring out how to free taxpayers, and that's because we think it would be interesting. What Saints and Right is talking about, that this would kind of ruin the incentives to be in work, is reasonably sought, to say it like that. The point here is that, for example, a municipality wishing to build a cultural house or a swimming pool shall be able to tell the population that it will be possible to make a choice. I actually think that the inhabitants are able to vote on whether this is something they want to be on or not. It would have been interesting to see, because I think it would be vitalized municipal policy, and the county also needs such own income, because they are completely missing them. They can't print real estate taxes either. To the property tax, which the representative Skkelstad was talking about: it's actually one of the taxes that's more fair, so I think the point of black-painting it is also wrong. There is an income from which municipalities have the opportunity to print and also to make exceptions. So to this with detail regulation. Yes, there's one thing with many sides. One is about, for example: environment, nature and soil protection, which I thought Left and SV reasonably agreed that we needed more stringent national protection. There I see that the Left is now in full swing, along with the government, to weaken the ability to maintain its national values. For example: social schemes, we have numerous supervisory reports that show that the provision of special groups with special challenges is under great pressure in very many municipalities, and that we want so-called municipal solutions, where the result is often that these services do not exist, or are very poor. This applies in particular — if you are interested in checking it — to services for people with developmental disabilities, for example. SV is determined and will never notice that this should be as good in all municipalities and something that you should not be able to make any difference, so there is actually a need to tighten up. Then to alcohol and local freedom on it. Yes, there are several people who have had good speeches about it, but I think the representative of Skkelstad is doing pretty unprofessional when he says that this is about people being able to get a beer. Very familiar are the shops open both here and there, so it is possible to buy a beer for the person who thought it would. It is actually possible to go to the pole and order in the post also, as far as I know, over most of the country. This is about maintaining national alcohol policy, and I don't know if anything that I think fits less together than a gas station and alcohol – I have a little difficulty seeing that. The last topic I'm going to say a little bit about is this with double residence registration. I understand the point of that, but I don't think this is a good solution. Even I live in a state there, for example. the municipality of Trysil has a very high population increase especially during the winter season, when the mountain is open. They have very large expenditures, particularly in the health field, but also some other areas, which are probably not fully absorbed in the income system or other grant schemes. It's a real situation. It might also be about municipalities that have very large commuting or commuting. I don't think double residence registration will solve this, and it opens up for a whole series of other topics, including. the representative from the Central Party was up here and asked who would register where to sleep at night, but there is no doubt that this should be addressed when discussing future local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1785	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1801	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from the member of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1810	Governments shall provide a number of important values for society: democracy and legal certainty, professionalism, integrity, transparency and efficiency. With such values at the bottom, Norway has to be said to have a public sector that is very well functioning on an international scale. So it's also said that the largest room in the world is the room for improvement. Also in the Norwegian government there is room for improvement. It is also the case that conversion is necessary to meet new demands and to change economic prospects. That is why it is a very important law we are dealing with today, because the state should be a modern and attractive employer, but, like other businesses in society, government businesses also need to be given confidence and space for action to find good solutions in collaboration with trustees. The proposal for a new law on the employees of the State has been made after thorough preparatory work. A separate selection presented a unified proposal. The Ministry's consultation proposal was mainly a follow-up to the unanimous proposal, while the government incorporated amendments in line with the hearing bodies in several areas. The proposal we are discussing today involves simplifications and improvements compared to the current Civil Service Act. Among other things, the principle of qualification is laid down. Simpler recruitment procedures are put in place. Several posts shall be published publicly. Rules shall be negotiated and agreed locally. The proposal also restricts access to temporary employment in the State. In addition, the conditions for dismissal are harmonised with the Working Environment Act, just as access to temporary employment. I'll come back a little bit to both. The Ministry therefore proposes that employment in the country be continued through two stages of treatment — mainly through the continuation of the current system. Although the new law is harmonised on a number of points with the Labour Environment Act, it also provides for adaptation to the particular nature of the country, in the form of stricter procedural requirements and stronger rights for employees than for the rest of the world of work. For example, the legalisation of the principle of qualifications — the need to have collegiate bodies in the event of recruitment and dismissal, as well as the right to appeal and to take advantage of new jobs in central government — means that employees in the state will continue to have a stronger legal position than private sector employees. The clear general rule of the State shall remain permanent and access to temporary employment shall be restricted by that law in comparison with the current law. For it is with current legislation and practice that the country has a somewhat significantly greater use of temporary employees than other sectors. So the legislative proposal is tightening up by achieving fixed employment after three years, not four as today. An obligation to discuss the use of temporaryity in establishments annually is introduced. In addition, the entry of the King to give special rules in regulations is not continued, nor is a legal basis for temporary employment where the work is not yet permanently organised. The majority of the Committee assumes that these measures will contribute to a reduction in the country's temporaryity, which I believe everyone has been involved in, and we assume that this is naturally followed up by the government and the state's activities. The YS, the UN and the Academics, and so far others, have raised questions about whether the tightening will have the desired effect in practice. The majority of the Committee is concerned that the new law should have an effect. It is natural to evaluate the effects, so we also promote a proposal asking the government to evaluate the effects after two years of operation and discuss the results with the main associations and come back to the Storting appropriately. As regards the cancellation rules, the opposition claims that it will be easier to get rid of harsh voices or alerts. This is incorrect, as is the temporaryity notation of the opposition. The proposal states that government employees who had to be dismissed in the past as a result of their infringing of their duties may be cancelled. Termination is a lighter form of reaction than removal and therefore a new basis for the dismissal of civil servants related to repeated violations of the service obligations is introduced. However, there is no reason to claim that this threshold for dismissal is lower on the proposal submitted than on the basis of the Working Environment Act. There are strict documentary requirements and requirements for the proper handling of dismissals, in addition to the right to appeal and to be heard in the courts. The opposition justifies the resistance to the legislative proposal with the process. They are justified by the fact that the bill weakens employees' rights, that it provides arbitrary and less legal certainty. There are few allegations that the proposal is mainly a follow-up to a unanimous committee of civil servants. The State’s employees will have a stronger legal position than others and the employment protection of temporary staff will be strengthened. Those who vote against this law are voting against a law that makes it less temporary in the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1829	The Staff Act of the State shall replace the Staff Act and regulate the recruitment and dismissal rules of its servants. It may not be this case or this law that the media and others have the highest on the agenda and the strongest focus on, but for those who do, this is important. So there are 170 000 employees in the state that law applies. It is important that we get a good official law. It'll be important for the 170 000. The State shall be a place for dishonest, professional, independent workers with great loyalty to their social mission. The State shall ensure legal certainty, democracy and freedom of expression also for those working in the service of the State. The Workers' Party is concerned that we should have a modern and up-to-date law on the employees of the State. We also share the government's view that there is a need to regulate the legal status of government officials in a separate law. We also believe that the state sector has been and will continue to be the subject of extensive migration, and there may and will be a need to make changes and updates. But this is a piece of legislation that has to be over time, if you're going to be able to do this properly. We're going to go against this proposition in its entirety. I hear the representative Jensen criticises the opposition for doing so. Then I just want to make it clear that there are large associations, both the LO, the NTL, the Joint Association of Police, the Research Association and others, who are asking the same questions we are asking. We are going against this proposition in its entirety because there has been a process by the government that has been under every criticism. One had a three-month hearing. The proposal in the proposal differs from several points recommended by the Civil Service Committee. Proposals are presented which were not promoted in the consultation round. It creates the impression that there is harmonisation of the Work Environment Act, which is not. It also appears that it has the support of the workers, and it does not. We are extremely critical that the bill continues the government's policy of weakening workers' rights, reducing job protection, extensive access to regulation, and the supplementary mandate does not respond to this with the reduction of temporary staff. The situation is getting worse for alerts and for critical voices with right of cancellation. So also this way of doing it -- or the way the government suggests it should be done -- moves power from the Storing to the Government. We are busy and working to have a functioning and modern law for state employees, and we welcome new proposals. But then we assume that the process is different and better than the case has been in the case. That's why we're going to vote against the law. Then I just want to state that in an incursion there is an error in point 2.12 on page 16. It's called "servicing refurbishment". It should actually be ‘written reproof’. I don't know if it helps to say it now that it's printed, but now at least I've got that incursion fixed from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1848	Then it's fixed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1853	This is a major and important issue for society and a major and important issue for the employees of the state concerned. Today, we are dealing with a new law on the employees of the state. It shall then replace the law on the officials of the State. The legislative proposal is based on a report prepared by the so-called Staff Regulations Committee and is intended to regulate the human resources of the State’s staff. I want to give recognition to the parties that have participated, for solid work and for clear clarifications. It is always a demanding matter when we go into such changes. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the work done in this way in the Committee. The work shows the willingness to adapt the legislation so that it becomes as much as possible like other employee groups, while telling the truth about the special things that lie around working in the state and for government employees. We understand that it has been set up for tidy processes, both around employment, about conversion processes and changes in working conditions, and assumes that it is done in the best possible way in consultation with the parties. Not least, we are satisfied with the important intensifications made by temporary employment. Temporary employment shall only be used when the work is of a temporary nature. Therefore, we are pleased that in this case the use of concepts is consistent with what is stated in the Working Environment Act. Then I intend not to spend more of the precious time of Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1866	The Ministry stated in its explanatory memorandum on the proposal for a new law on state employees that the law had to be adapted to a modern state administration, and that a new law had to be in place over time. It is also said that the legislative proposal balances the interests of the State as an employer and, on the other hand, the interests of individual employees with regard to legal certainty and protection. I can agree with the reasons for the bill based on what I quoted in the introduction, but the question is whether the good intentions are followed up in the concrete legislative proposal that has been presented. We believe that the legislative process has not been good enough. There is no law that will stand over time, to quote the government's assumptions. The lot of the centre will therefore vote against the proposed law in its entirety. I believe it is a well-known case that the Centre Party believes that the Labour Environment Act should be amended in order to ensure the rights of workers in several areas. When the red-greens took over the government power in 2005, the Working Environment Act was one of the first to be addressed. The same will be true of the post-Government situation in the autumn. Law on state employees will be a special law that takes precedence. It states that the draft law is adapted to the Administrative Act so that State activities are bound by the procedural requirements of the Administrative Act with regard to recruitment decisions, redundancies, suspensions, etc. I believe that we need to put in place a revised work environment law that provides better premise for the provisions of the State Employees Act. I note that the Ministry also basically believes that there should be harmonisation between the State Employment Act and the Labour Environment Act, but at the same time sees that the employment organisations in the State feel that the law provides a number of loopholes that do not comply with this principle. On the part of the Centre Party, we would like to highlight in particular the need to consider how the proposal for a new law for civil servants is encroaching on the rules for temporary staff. According to the opinions of the recruitment organisations, today is 16 pst. by employees of the State on a temporary basis. In the working life, there are about 8 pst. temporary staff. At universities, there are as many as a quarter without a permanent job, and temporary jobs are common for many years. From the centre party we share the organisations' concerns when they say that the bill provides for a strong opening for temporary employment in the state. It states that the law ‘must be given a content of opinion adapted to the characteristics of the State’. I understand that the Ministry believes that temporary employment in the country should be assessed on the basis of completely different assumptions from those in the labour market. I absolutely cannot agree with that. The centre party believes that the protection against dismissal in the state must comply with the provisions of the Working Environment Act. This was also proposed by the Civil Service Committee, but in the government's proposal this has been weakened by an interpretation that could weaken the effective harmonisation of the labour protection law. The Centre Party supports the recruitment organisations, which consider the legislation of the State employment scheme to continue today’s provisions on minority pension schemes. The Ministry proposes to abolish this right, while the UNIO and LO believe that today’s system is important as a safety valve to ensure transparency and transparency of recruitment processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1889	The Law on the Employees of the State is an important contribution to Norwegian government employers' policy. I want to commend the government for taking action that modernises, strengthens and improves the conditions for Norwegian State employees. In the committee, the case-rapporteur, Frank J. Jensen, has done a good job of further strengthening the rights of workers. To tighten access to temporary employment in the state was a goal in the Sundvolden declaration when it was signed, and I am pleased that we are now delivering on it. One of the most important areas of the Left is the strengthening of the alert protection in the country. The left is concerned with alert protection because we believe that many of the alerts play an important role in society that should be protected. As an employer, the government also has a role to play, which is why I am pleased that in the bill we improve the protection of alerts in the state. The left considers temporary employment to be an important and useful tool in the labour market. This increases the flexibility of the Norwegian economy and creates opportunities for young people to enter the labour market. At the same time, we are concerned that temporary employment should not be a permanent condition. We have limited the use of long-term temporary employment in the private sector, and therefore we are pleased that we are now adding leadership that also restricts it in the public sector. The fact that the law on national employees is now largely harmonised with the Labour Environment Act is an important measure in this respect. Too often, public employment has been carried out internally and without publication. This is now being amended in the State Staff Act, which imposes stricter transparency requirements on recruitment processes. This will provide better qualified staff, with a greater degree of professional diversity. The state has a leading role to play in relation to its employees. We cannot make one claim for the employees of the private industry and another for the employees of the State. Of course, although the state plays a different role and in certain exceptional cases has different needs than the private one, we will all benefit from a change that approximates the law on the state's employees to the employment environment law. The left is pleased that the legislative proposal has been further strengthened by a joint committee work on the Stortinget. Today's attitude is a solid piece of work that creates safer, better and more open state jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1906	SV and I had really waited for a bill to come forward that would both strengthen the alert protection in the state and put greater restrictions on temporaryity in the state, because there is a need for it. Then we were disappointed when this bill came, and particularly disappointed because there was a report from an official law committee at the bottom that was unanimous and on many points very good. The problem here is that this proposal departs from the Committee on Civil Liberties on several important points. That sample was composed of representatives from both the employer and the employee sides. When proposing that the conditions of the Working Environment Act include: shall be used as a basis for temporary additions and redundancies due to the conditions of the enterprise, for example, the concepts of the work environment law are used in the legislative proposal – that is correct – but the proposition text gives the concepts a different and broader meaning than those contained in the concepts of the work environment law. That's what's the whole problem with this case, that it's like that. In addition, there are a number of other critical points. One of the most important concerns in regulating the state’s employees’ relationships is that we should ensure independence and that officials choose to follow the duty and social mission rather than the order from the superior. For this reason, it is so serious when other proposals are presented in the proposition regarding, for example: this with cancellation or termination. It seems that those who believe this is a improvement have not fully understood that what is proposed now is that the conditions for termination of employment are extended and lowered. So it'll make it harder to warn people who're afraid of it. A new law with unclear grounds for dismissal could lead to minor alerts. It says several of the employee organisations, and they have actually lived up to it. I would like to remind you that the Joint Alliance of Police also supports the SV and the opposition in this, and they remind us that, for example. The warner in the Monika case in Bergen was threatened with the dismissal of his superiors. Today's law provides a strong protection. The new law will provide a weakened protection in this area, and it concerns SV. There are also a number of other points that cause us to have problems with this interpretation that are given by this new legal text. This also applies in the case of temporary additions, what to expect when considering how long you have been employed. In some areas and in some cases, for example: may have more temporary additions of longer duration than at present, when considering the actual provisions here. This applies, for example: fellows, who are better protected by the law of the day than the one we are now presented to. Finally, we have had a very short time on this. The regulations were therefore sent to the hearing before the law was passed on in Stortinget – that is quite special. There is wide access to regulate parts of the understanding of the law, and it is really moving regulation in this area from legislator and Stortinget and over to changing governments. It is the opening that is the main concern of this law, that changing governments and changing political majority are given the opportunity to regulate what is to ensure that independent officials who say from and communicate facts, regardless of which government is sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1921	The new law for state employees, adopted today by the Stortinget, is not only important for the approximately 160 000 skilled employees we have. The law is also important for society as a whole. Today's civil servants' law dates from 1983 and does not reflect the modern working life of which the state's employees are part. Our goal has been a law that is renewed, simplified and adapted to our time. This is important to ensure that the country's activities can carry out its social tasks on behalf of the community. At the same time, it has been important to continue the important basic values on which the law is based and which are essential for trust in management. The law must ensure the security of recruitment and good employment processes in the state, we must ensure legal certainty and respect democratic decisions. In 2015, the government set up a legislative committee with representatives both for employers and for employees. The committee did a good job and reached agreed conclusions. The Government has largely followed up these recommendations in its proposal. The Government proposes, in line with the committee's proposal, to legislate on the principle of qualification, which states that the best qualified applicant is to be employed in the State. As a clear general rule, positions must be published publicly so as to ensure broad recruitment to positions in the State. The employer can choose who is to be hired, but we carry on with the collegiate recruitment body where employees are also represented. As a result, the recruitment process can speed up, while retaining reassuring processes in which employees' representatives take part in the decision, and recruitments continue to be dealt with in two bodies. The country has long had a higher proportion of temporary employees than other parts of the world of work. The government is following up the selection proposal to tighten access to temporary employment in the country. As a general rule, temporary staff in the country are to receive permanent employment after three years. Many people have talked a lot about this challenge, we're actually doing something to solve it. The conditions for dismissal are harmonised with those laid down in the Working Environment Act. While today's rules provide workers with a short period of employment with a lower level of protection than those with longer service, we now provide the same protection for all the employees of the country. This is also in line with the selection proposal. With the new law, employees in the country will still have stronger rights than in the rest of the world of work. Employment decisions shall be taken by a college body, not by the employer alone. We legislate the principle of qualification. Decisions on dismissal shall also be taken by a college body, which shall be entitled to apply to the courts, and the dismissed person shall have the right of pre-emption throughout the State. The government has also introduced measures in other legislation that benefit its employees, such as: by strengthening the safety and health protection of workers at work. I am pleased that most of the main associations are in agreement with the law commission. It is very important that the social partners can work together on solutions, also on issues where we initially have different interests and positions. I am therefore also pleased that the majority of the Committee, in consultation with us, has made some adjustments and clarifications in order to follow up the input from the main organisations. That's what the government will follow up on. The suspension underlines that the adjustment to the country’s specific characteristics does not imply a general extension of the country’s scope of termination and temporaryity than in the rest of the world of work. But the state will also have legitimate needs for this, including: to follow up policy decisions and to ensure the proper functioning of key activities for society. The government will evaluate the impact of the tightening up of access to temporary employment and will discuss this with the parties, as the Storting asks. We also record that the Stortinget asks the government to make an adjustment to the Working Environment Act in its work on the regulation, so that access to work is tightened in order to reduce absenteeism in the calculation of working time. We'll follow up on this, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1950	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1955	For a long time, we have seen various issues that have been on alerts in the state through different media. It is those who believe that the state is the worst warning and speech. The working party is concerned that critical voices need to be secured. It is now suggested that professional criticism will initially not be covered by a reinforced alert protection because professional criticism falls outside the alert institute and is not regarded as critical conditions under the Working Environment Act. Does the Council of State think that this will help the situation of alerts, the situation of critical voices? And does the Council of State think that this proposal is a matter for those who work in the state, i.e. their legal security, democracy and freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1960	Warning protection is important. I'm glad the Storting agrees. That is why we have also strengthened the alert protection in the Working Environment Act, ensuring that it includes several employment groups, and we have reduced a sample to continue working on this. It is important that we have good warning protection, but we are also working to revise the ethical guidelines in the state to clarify the freedom of expression of employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1965	We hear the case rapporteur today say that there has been a good process around this, but the organisations who participated with their experts in the Civil Service Committee said they felt that much was given by them to improve the rules for temporary addition. In retrospect, several key provisions, including access to temporary additions, have been weakened — in conjunction with the recommendation of the sample. They also say that parts of the proposal submitted to the Stortinget have also not been promoted in the consultation round, and there have also been two regulations sent to the hearing, which the representative Andersen had been involved in earlier today, before the law has been dealt with in the Stortinget. And the organizations, at least LO, NTL, the Research Association and the Police Union, definitely believe that the process and the anchoring have been too bad. Is it such that the Council of State does not see it as both the opposition and the organizations, who believe it has been a bad process, and who say that the process had been different, could one get out with a much better law?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1970	I think the representative will take his mouth a little too full when you speak on behalf of all the organisations. It's like in a sample you have to give and take. The government has also done so, the employer has done so, and the employee organisations have done so. When I got the report, I gave a great deal of praise to the employee organisations because they had come to an agreement. I've been, and I'm still, concerned that we're going to get changes that are going to last over time. Then everyone has to give. And I think that's what you've done in this. The fact that we are finally able to put in place a regulation that will allow us to reduce the use of temporaryity in the state, I believe, is very important. It was not done when the Workers' Party ruled the country for eight years, and with the Workers' Party's proposal today, the Workers' Party will still not help us to reduce the temporaryity of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1975	We're told that 16 pst. by the employees of the State today are temporarily employed. In the rest of the world, the number is 8 pst. At universities there are as many as a quarter without a permanent position, and many go to temporary posts for years. We share the concerns of the organisations on the part of the Centre Party when they say that the bill provides for a strong opening for temporary employment in the state. The need for this is justified by the fact that the ‘content of opinion’ of the law must be ‘adapted to the particular character of the State’. Does the Council of State feel that it would also be natural in the future for the State to have twice as many temporary employees as the rest of the economy? If I understood the Council of State right, he felt that the proportion of temporary employees in the state had to go down. What are the instruments that the Council of State thinks we need to use to reduce the proportion? And what level does the Council of State think the proportion of temporary staff in the State should be on in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1984	The question was whether the government believes that the use of temporary employment in the country is too large. The answer to that question is yes, we believe that there is too much temporaryity in the state, and we are doing something about it. While the previous government did not tighten the legislation, we are now tightening the legislation. What is contained in the government's proposal, and what is in the vote of the majority of the committee, is that we tighten up the use of temporaryity in the state. We're going from four years to three years into the general rule of permanent employment. This is true of the Centre Party and the Workers' Party – the red-green batches are currently opposed to tightening up the use of temporaryity in the country. In addition, we will have a dialogue with the social partners to look at developments. There shall also be a dialogue on the use of temporary employment in each establishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1993	Does the Council then have any explanation as to why all organisations believe that this bill provides for a strong opening for temporary employment in the state, and does it have a completely different interpretation of the proposed legislative changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e1998	I don't think that's exactly what I'm talking about. It may be thought that the LO and the NTL are of that opinion, but the other organisations have expressed their satisfaction that the government is now tightening the regulatory framework for the use of temporary employment. We do that because we believe that there has been too much use of temporary employment in the state. The previous government didn't tighten up on this. Today, the Central Party will vote against our tightening up on the use of temporary employment. We are facilitating that there may be less temporaryity and more permanent employment in the state in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2005	There are no organizations that have addressed the Storting during the treatment saying that this will actually improve the situation, and that is the problem. In terms of temporaryity, the problem is greatest in universities, and then I can refer to what the Swedish Research Association thinks about this. They indicate that today there is a four-year rule in the state and a three-year rule in the Working Environment Act, and that this should be harmonised essentially. The problem is that the Civil Service Act today reduces the amount of working time, but it does not do so under the Working Environment Act. What the sample said was that you should follow the Working Environment Act, while the regulations that the government has sent out at the hearing mean that only one year of your time, for example. is a fellow, shall be included in this. This means that people should be able to go for years as a fellow student — and some do — and then the conclusion of the Swedish Research Association is that this results in more temporary additions of longer duration than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2012	The answer to that question is that it is wrong. What we are doing today is tightening up the legislation, and both UNIO and YS have given the government recognition that we are now tightening up the use of temporary employment by going from four to three years as a general rule. But now it's like if you have a vicariate for a person like that. If you become a principal for four years, you can't get permanent employment after three years. There must be some exceptions to adapt to the particular activities of the country. What we're doing today is tightening up. The previous government did not, nor does the opposition today. That means that SV today is voting for liberal temporaryity rules in the state, while the government is tightening this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2020	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2027	In the previous magnification period and the period before it was left occupied by two things when it pertains to temporary additions. The only thing was that we thought one should open up something more for it according to the rules of the work environment law, because it was too hard for people to come in. But we also thought that the door was too wide, simply in the state, something should be tightened up. It was an important demand from us when we negotiated the Working Environment Act here at Stortinget in 2015, and fortunately the Left was given an opportunity to give the Service Law Selection an additional mandate to tighten up the use of temporary additions. So I'm glad that it's now being done. One should be careful to talk too much about this with eight red-green years, it can sometimes slip over into the parody, but right in this case it is actually so that this was a requirement, and it was taken up in the Storting repeatedly. The parties on the red-green side that today, because of the fact that there are too many temporary additions to the state, did zero in the eight years – zero they did. Now there's a change, so they choose to vote against them. At least they've been clearly positioned on the page that won't do anything to restrict the use of temporary additions. The government submitted to the Stortinget was initially quite good, but then there has been further cuts in committee work, among other things. in the case of withdrawals for absenteeism, where a reasonable adjustment is made. One illustrative too – e.g. where it has been insecure, write a now: ‘The majority emphasises that the reference to the country’s distinctive character does not imply further access to temporary employment in the country than in the labour market.’ [[...]] There are important clarifications such as: This is because you have had good dialogue with the social partners in the mainstreaming process. Then alerts are mentioned, and there has actually also happened very well. In my committee, the Labour and Social Committee – which is primarily responsible for these questions – we did as late as two weeks ago, in a case where I was a spokesperson, useful restraints in the alert protection, where an extension of the alert procedure also applies to hired and posted workers, new rules on anonymity requirements for alerts to the administrative authorities and requirements for internal alert procedures. Now it is very important, and it is happening because it is a political will for what has been absent in the past. I must say I am surprised that there are so many parties here today who are actually going to vote against the whole law, and who say in practice that they prefer the law of the day. They say they prefer today's law, today's use of temporary additions, which the representative of the Center Party is quite right, so is far too big. That one then is not willing to do anything about it was surprising the eight years one had the possibility, and I must say it still surprises me.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2045	It is enough that the opposition parties would have voted in favour of this if the bill that was presented had been in line with the unanimous selection, but it is not. If you look at e.g. this with temporaryity, which is a major problem, I can refer to the proposition, page 114, where it is stated that a direct transfer of the concept of the work environment law to the state sector is ‘not possible’. This is justified by the ‘specificity of the State’ — what it should be, except that independent officials are needed. This is justified by the fact that you receive appropriations from Stortinget. Yes, so do employees in the municipalities. State councils say that's if you like. shall attend the vikariat of a principal. Yes, so are the municipalities. Even kindergartens do that, I've been on that sail. In this proposition, a different interpretation of the term is now added to the concept than that contained in the Working Environment Act. What is stated is to interpret the concept in accordance with the main provisions of the Civil Service Act in force, as it is today, where one can be temporarily added when the official is ‘only needed for a limited period of time or for the performance of a specific task’. The word is changed, but not the contents. The Labour Environment Act provides for the use of temporary additions in the event of budgetary and economic uncertainties. So it could be in the country as well. That's not the problem. The problem is that the concepts of the proposition are interpreted, and then access to temporary additions becomes as broad as before, and beyond the scope of the Working Environment Act. Either the government and the Left have not understood it, or they're trying to subdue it, and it's serious, because everyone wants to tighten in. Fear is now that there will be quite a number of legal cases and procedures about this because it is not in line with the sample. Premises are inserted that were not included in the sample. For example, I can. Please mention that in the regulation that has now been issued, before the law has been adopted – in Section 9 – it is proposed that a deduction be made for absences, and that is not in accordance with the selection setting. It reduces the importance of the change in the three-year rule. Unfortunately, it does. That's the problem, not that we don't want to tighten up. We want to do it in a way that makes it work, and that's why we're opposed to this, but for what the sample initially suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2058	The representative Karin Andersen is right that the formulations of the proposition could be read so that there was a certain room of uncertainty around this one. But that is also the reason why one in the committee's position has made all the necessary clarifications, including: I quote instead, that this should not imply further access to the temporary additions to the country than to the labour market. Write: ‘The strong position of the Member States may not be used as a general argument against temporary employment: [[...]] So that one here should have a little more room for temporary additions than under the work environment law, I'm not going to vote with the committee setting. Then one can say, as the representative Andersen did, that here it can end up in court and in interpretation matters. But then, if there's uncertainty, take what's in the committee position, and what's being said in the pulpit here today, heavier as a legal source than what had to be in a proposition from the ministry. The important thing is it's a decree, the important thing is it's a writing, and the important thing is it's a saying here today. There's no other way to understand it than that there's no further access here, rather the opposite, there's going to be a tighter access. And it's not just about that formulation, it's about multiple things one does. No longer permitted to set special rules for temporary additions in regulations. This removes the legal secret of temporarily adding work that is not yet permanently organised. The legal availability of annual target settings will be limited, a delay of four to three years for the duration of temporary settings, etc. There is no doubt that this leads to a tightening. And I think, in order to be completely honest, that there should be no reason why the representatives of SV should vote against this today, at least not as the committee position has come up, but so they choose to do. Then they're on the old law, which gives more space for temporary additions. That's what we tried to get away from, and we're lucky to do that with the plurality that's gathered here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2074	I have to say that I can all at once join the post of the representative Rotevatn, who has read the position thoroughly and understood what the majority position actually involves. It is true that, after the proposition was made, several enquiries also came to the undersigned and to the Committee on the Uncertainty of how this should now be understood – that one uses the same concept, but writes that one cannot use exactly the same interpretation, etc. We didn't think the law and the proposition was very unclear when it came to this, but since more people asked about it, we said that we would write it into the setting. Then, as Rotevatn has said, we “understand that the reference to the State’s distinctive character should not imply further access to temporary employment or dismissal in the State than in the rest of the world of work”, and here it seems that SV is in the public domain. And then we're like, «The strong position of the Member States may not be used as a general argument against temporary employment and dismissal, but must be assessed in a concrete manner in the light of the conditions of the law.» This could have been very well noted by an overall committee, which had, as it were, sent out a clear and clear signal to the organisations and to all employees in the country about how this should be understood. Instead, some representatives from this pulpit continue to doubt how this should be understood. No, there's no doubt, we've clarified it, it could have been unanimous committee comments. I have to say I'm a little surprised at why you don't choose to go into this clear clarification, which would have helped to clarify and probably defecate part of it, at my discretion, a little strange debate. Then we could have been clarified once and for all how the proposals for tightening up temporary employment in the state should be understood, because this is an intrusive proposal, which will help reduce temporaryity. In addition, in order to further make this clear, the majority favours a proposal for a decision asking the government to evaluate the effects of the proposal, discuss it with the main associations and come back to the Stortinget. This, too, could have been achieved by cooperation; the Committee could have jointly supported it, but it was not interested in joining and joining. It seems like there's been a lot of interest in essentially taking away from the whole bill, because for some reason you're very concerned about being able to vote against it all. But then you're also voting against the tightening up that we're adopting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2090	I am amazed that the representative Andersen sees fit to spread uncertainty in this matter. When the government tightens up the possibility of temporary employment in the country, it is because we want to reduce the use of temporary employment. We believe that it is important to make the state more attractive to good employees, so that we can both recruit, develop and maintain good employees. When we reduce the time it has to go before you get fixed-term employment, from four to three years, it is not a liberalisation; it is an intensification. We are now likening the legislation of the private sector by three years to give the right to permanent employment. I think it's an important step we're taking there, and I'm amazed that SV sees itself well served by spreading uncertainty. I also showed in my post that Stortinget asked the government to make adjustments to the Working Environment Act in its work on the regulation, in order to tighten access to make deductions for absences when calculating working time. So I added that this of course we'll follow up. What we now have on the table is a law that we think should be able to stand over time. I am pleased that most of the main associations have stated that we are essentially following up the consensus that was in the sample, and that this could contribute to a good development for the government's employees. It is true that we will of course discuss further with the social partners how it develops with the use of temporary employment, so that we achieve what is our goal, namely to reduce the use.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2099	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2104	It is not SV that has created uncertainty in this case, it is the government's handling of the case that has created uncertainty. Regulations have been consulted before the law has been passed, and the proposal to the Grand Duchy contains other interpretations that the government has followed in the regulations that are now being consulted and that give a different result from what the Council of State is here saying. That's the problem. Does this mean that the Council of State now draws the regulations he has sent to the hearing and restarts? If so, the Council of State must answer that question. Because that could be the only thing that meant that an interpretation of these provisions had been put in place that corresponds to the position today that the opposition had agreed to. It shows how critical this treatment has been. We haven't even had time to have a hearing in Stortinget, much less to pull the emergency brakes today, to see if the council and the government had intended to follow up what they are saying today, but have not written, to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2111	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2127	The proposals for changes to the House Bank Act have been being consulted and have been widely welcomed. There is an overall attitude of the Committee, and there is good reason to believe that the government's proposals will go through unanimously later today. So I'm going to try to be short. The Government proposes to provide the municipalities and the Husbank with a legal basis to collect personal data and use them when processing applications for loans and grants, without the consent of the applicant being required. A health information exception is proposed here, which is generally still to be based on the consent of the applicant. The proposal proposes a number of new homes that will facilitate the use of personal data, including: for control, statistics and research and for the correction of errors in the digital processing system. All the proposals are agreed unanimously by the Committee, which considers it important to provide the House Bank and the municipalities with the necessary powers so that they can effectively carry out control measures and ensure that support schemes benefit those who need it. The Committee also supports proposals that will facilitate the production of statistics and research. This is socially useful knowledge, which, in turn, can provide better arrangements for those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2140	We are discussing today a unanimous committee vote. Achieving unanimity for a proposition to balance privacy with official control needs and efficiency shows that a very good craft has been done and a very good rating has been demonstrated. The fact that adjustments to home banking legislation will also lead to cost savings makes the whole issue even better. Of course, the consideration of a unanimous committee position does not require a wide-ranging debate in addition to the rapporteur's presentation. However, when I choose to take the word, it is to reinforce an important point, which the proposition touches, but does not treat in principle: the personal responsibility of the individual applicant to provide himself with all the necessary relevant information. This can be seen, for example. in the proposal for information from the employer and the bank: ‘Therefore, the municipalities and the Husbank should always consider whether information from these sources should be obtained via the seeker, even if one has a legal secret to pick them up directly.’ In a liberal democracy like ours, in my view, it should always, as far as practicable, seek to facilitate that the applicant himself is given a responsibility to bring the most necessary information to the public authority or bodies concerned. This does not in any way imply any disagreement about giving the House Bank and the municipalities the legal bases proposed by the law, but is merely a wish that the House Bank and municipalities in borrowing and control processes draw up forms, carry out talks and otherwise contribute to making visible and demanding the most practical personal responsibility for the individual when they apply for Community funds. Finally, it is not every day that the Senterpartie will not object to the removal of public regional offices in a law. It happens in this case – cross the ceiling.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2154	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 5 and No 6 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2183	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: the Working Party 30 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 15 minutes, the Centre 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2192	Let me first thank the Committee for a good cooperation. Although the committee is divided into some questions, we have worked well on these two issues. I would also like to thank the committee for having been so generous that they have given the case rapporteur a little more time than is normal. It's not sure I'm going to spend 15 minutes. So we are dealing with two propositions in the field of equality and discrimination. I Prop. 80 L for 2016–2017, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality is presenting proposals for the new Discrimination Ombudsman Act. The Act replaces the Law of 10 June 2005 No. 40 on the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the Equality and Discrimination Department, the Discrimination Ombudsman Act. The Ministry shall state several aspects of the current enforcement apparatus on the basis of which the proposal for a new organisation is proposed: Combination of the Ombudsman’s driving role and enforcement role may be fundamentally unlucky because such a dual role may weaken the confidence of the Ombudsman in law enforcement matters. The case-handling time of today’s enforcement apparatus is very long. This is burdensome both for those who are accused of discrimination and for those who have filed a case of discrimination. The length of the procedure also weakens the effectiveness and implementation of the rules on discrimination. The enforcement apparatus does not currently have the power to award restitution or replacement. Both substantive and general preventive considerations indicate that infringements of the rules on discrimination should have consequences. Furthermore, the Ministry promotes the desire for the Ombudsman to be more independent, clear and socially critical in the enforcement of discrimination, and therefore proposes to separate the law enforcement tasks from the Ombudsman. This, according to the Ministry, will clarify and strengthen the driving role and also help to ensure the legitimacy of the Ombudsman vis-à-vis authorities, users and stakeholders. The Ombudsman will thus become a pure independent driving body to follow developments in society with a view to identifying and pointing out non-discrimination and non-discrimination issues. On the proposal to create a new name, the Ministry states: ‘Hand-over tasks shall be transferred to a new and strengthened enforcement apparatus to deal with cases in one instance. As a general rule, the managers of the new denominator shall have judicial experience, and the latter shall have the power to determine the settlement of matters relating to employment and the settlement of simple cases. Strengthening the scope for effective sanctions will contribute to the effective implementation of the protection against discrimination.’ Consultation bodies have been divided into questions as to whether law enforcement tasks should be separated from the Ombudsman and transferred to a new enforcement apparatus. They have also been divided into the view whether a new enforcement apparatus should be built up as a single instance model. Several hearing bodies consider that it is unnecessary to require judicial experience for the directors of the denominator, and several hearing bodies consider that a new instance should be given authority to enforce also cases of sexual harassment. For the Christian People's Party, it is essential that the protection of discrimination is not weakened, but strengthened by this process. We've made this clear in our notes. As we see it, the proposed sharing of ombudsmen and new names cannot be realised within the current budgetary framework without jeopardising the quality of the professional environments as well as the implementation of the two newly created separate bodies, which, in reality, will weaken the protection of individuals from discrimination. In particular, we are concerned that the Ombudsman’s important driving role and guidance function are strengthened by the change. That is why we have put forward a proposal which is a crucial prerequisite for supporting the government's proposal. We want the government to determine what the creation and, if necessary, the transfer of a new name will require of resources, provided that both names and representatives are to be taken into account as strong professional environments, and then strengthen the Ombudsman's budget for 2018 according to the calculations. Since the government itself points out in the proposition that they want the Ombudsman’s driving role to be clarified and strengthened through the proposed grip, we expect them to take the call to provide the Ombudsman with the necessary resources to do just that. In the case of Prop. 81 L for 2016-2017, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality proposes a new equality and discrimination law that replaces the four existing equality and discrimination laws with a new single law. The Ministry wants to make the law more accessible to those who have rights and obligations under law. The legislative proposal is essentially a continuation of the existing law, but the Ministry brings forward some changes that they consider to strengthen the protection of discrimination. The universal design of ICT shall be extended to the education and training sector. The prohibition of age discrimination is extended to all areas of society. Increased access shall be granted to positive treatment for men and it shall be clarified that there is a particularly strict ban on direct discrimination in employment and in pregnancy. The Ministry also proposes that the law provide an explicit ban on complex discrimination. Other amendments that received some attention during the hearing were the amendment of the purpose paragraph, the obligation to explain to employers does not continue, and the law does not apply to family and other purely personal matters. I know that the proposition makes a point that the Christian People's Party supported the idea of bringing together the equality law and the three discrimination laws in the last period. The Christian People's Party has turned around, like other hearing bodies that have also turned around. I know that at the hearings there were shared opinions about this, but that we don't want to merge these laws, we made it quite clear when we dealt with the gender equality message one year ago. The councils are at least aware that the Christian People's Party thinks differently now than we did four years ago. That is, we don't think differently, because there were a lot of people who thought this could be right. However, there is strong concern about what will happen to gender equality and gender equality policies. My concern is that the attention given to equality and the important work to be done there will be weakened. We've come a long way in Norway in terms of equality, but we're not at all in terms of goals, nor in terms of employment. We know that women are being discriminated against, we know that women are being discriminated against in pregnancy, so we don't want to merge these laws, but keep the four laws separate, as it is now. The Christian People's Party believes that the merger weakens the protection of discrimination on several specific points, but the overall assessment is that the four laws provide the different groups with a clearer protection against discrimination than a single law would do. For example, the Equality Act: remains a very important function. Women are no minority, but women continue to experience discrimination in both working and social life. Among the 100 largest Norwegian companies, there are only 15 pst. women in senior management positions in the private sector. Even though it looks a little bit better in state-owned companies, 33 pst., this tells us that we still have a long way to go. The Christian People's Party therefore considers it very important that employers continue to be responsible for actively promoting equality in their enterprises. The government's proposal to remove the so-called obligation of presentation, which is just about making companies aware of this responsibility, is to reverse important equality policies, in the view of the Christian People's Party. If, as the NHO Chief said last week, the reporting obligation in its present form only leads to some lines in an annual report that does not make sense, the Christian People's Party believes that the solution is not simply to remove the whole obligation, but instead to clarify what it involves, and to target it more clearly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2239	For us in the Workers' Party, it is important to continue to fight for increased equality. It's still an important part of our freedom struggle. The social-democratic project is just about us jointly taking responsibility for creating more freedom for more people. This characterizes our party's history. No one was supposed to be holding a hat in their hand. People should have the freedom to live the life they wanted, and everyone should have the same opportunities, regardless of background, regardless of which family you were born into, and regardless of gender. Class struggle and gender equality struggle have always been two sides of the same issue for us. It is therefore none of us who regard the equality struggle as a surplus project, spiced in everyday life or adorned in the cake. This is about the core wall of our society. Women and men of the Labour Party are not feminists. The men and women of the labour movement shall be feminists every day. This is our ideological base wall. For us, equality is a fundamental value, in a fair, decent society. We've taken the fight, we've fought women's rights, we've taken steps, we've built laws and rights to be discriminated against. But working against discrimination has never been enough for us, because unlike the political right-hand side in Norway, we have always realized that there is a difference between working against discrimination and working for increased equality. The laws alone do not create a more equal Norway; it is the policy that does. This is about the fact that in periods we have to discriminate in order to achieve equality. The established patterns of society have such deep roots that it requires active policies over time to change. This is how we got e.g. quotaing, so that all, both women and men, could have equal opportunities for work and influence. We have built welfare schemes that have allowed women and men to combine work with having babies. Parental leave, kindergartens, father's quota, breast-free – are all good examples. It got women into paid working life, which in turn enabled us to afford more well-being. Gender equality policy is for that reason one of the legs of the Norwegian model, which has made us one of the richest countries in the world. Norwegian women's professional participation is worth more than our oil. It didn't come of itself. It came from the social-democratic equality project, an active gender equality policy. Because we have realized that equality does not pay off just for individuals in the form of increased freedom – equality pays off for society as a whole, for the economy, for businesses and for businesses. Diversity and gender equality provide better decisions, better ideas, more innovation, better adaptability. It just pays off. Equality policy made us one of the richest countries in the world and one of the world's most equal countries. The social-democratic project of the labour movement has succeeded. But we're not on target. The right-hand side can sometimes admit that through our solutions, we have managed to create a more equal society, historically. But the insight stops there, because the Right Party and the Advance Party believe that we're in the goal, that we're done. They will not promote new policies to move forward. There is a fundamental error between the Right and the Advance Party. People experience not being able to take out the paper commission they want, because someone expects their father to take care of their care at home – expectations from both employers and partners. Pregnant girls experience losing their jobs or not being called up for an interview. Immigrant girls and boys experience not being able to participate in Community arenas with others, because some people feel that it is not appropriate. 40 pst. of all women working part-time and becoming pension losers or stanchions in the glass ceiling on the way up the career path. Men don't go to doctors much less often. Guys choose jobs for men and girls women. Eight out of ten rapporteurs are men. None of the largest listed companies is managed by a woman. Thousands of women live in hiding because of violence in close relationships. These are examples of the gender equality challenges we face in Norway in 2017. These challenges need policy solutions, where we and the right-hand side divide layers. Where we have thought that equality is not something one should acquire – in negotiations with mother over the kitchen table or with the head of wage negotiations – but on the contrary that the community should set up and build a secure framework around life for people to provide frameworks that offer equal opportunities, so that people can feel the security to choose freely, the right-hand side believes that equality is a private responsibility, that politics does not need to set up, that the laws should be limited, yes even scrapped. They're wrong. They were also mistaken when they were once in favour of women's voting rights. They were wrong when they were in favour of parental leave and father's quota. And they are still wrong today, when the Minister for Gender Equality from the Progress Party proposes to abolish the Equality Act. The modern right-hand side continues to present old-fashioned arguments and pursues a backward-looking policy. We were interrupted in our equality fight in 2013. We had just presented a big message that called Equality does not come about by itself, which contained analyses of the areas in which Norway faces gender equality challenges. But most importantly, it came up with solutions and policies that would address these challenges. The message was based on two NOUs from the Skee Selection. One of the most important Skjeie selections, on which our message was based, was – and is – that there is just too far between the promises we politicians have made, and the goals, visions and plans we have adopted for equality, and what people experience from real opportunities in their lives. That's why we need to keep building structures for equality. That is why we need more, not less, active policies, and we need a stronger implementation tool for equality. The first state councillor Horne did when they took over the blue-blue, was to draw the message that was being processed in the Stortinget. High and dark they slaughtered our message, called it thin and bureaucratic, and the jam was to create their own overall equality message, with more powerful instruments and solutions to take into consideration the gender equality Norway. It took two years. For two years we waited for the government to show us its overall equality policy. Meanwhile, they were able to put a lid on the debate – the message will come soon! In the meantime, every day they've shown what their real equality policy is. It started by attacking abortion rights through reservation rights, cutting the father's quota, increased cash support, tax class 2, more expensive kindergartens and longer queues, a work environment law that makes it more difficult for many to combine working life with family life, cut off part-time measures, cut off those who live outside, in regions and municipalities, make the job more equal, those who do the driving job and enforce people's rights. The gender equality ombudsman, the gender equality centres and the voluntary organisations experienced cutbacks. Today, it is proposed to merge the laws on discrimination and gender equality. It sounds quite good to bring together the law, to give more people better protection against discrimination. But that is not what a common law will lead to – on the contrary, protection against gender discrimination is weakened. A desire to remove the equality law, which has been the brand for us, as the race discrimination law has been for the United States. This will be the Right Party Government. In addition, it is proposed to remove one of the tools we have had to create greater equality in the labour market and hence in society: the obligation to make representations. Because it has not worked optimally, the government chooses to remove it – in the well-known rear right-hand style, as when they proposed to lower the youth guarantee because it did not function optimally. That's also where we separate layers. Where they're liquidating, we're developing. Every day since they joined the government, equality between women and men is put in reverse. Furthermore, the Labour Party, with strong political solutions capable of addressing gender equality challenges, will have Community solutions to help fewer people to experience the struggle of the big and small struggles alone, and can have the freedom to live as they please, regardless of who they are. Many of them we promoted when the equality message was dealt with in Stortinget. And along with the rest of the opposition, we got a majority too much, for example. extra points for gender-based education, good measures to get more women into the top jobs, a new tripartite cooperation for increased equality, etc. The Labour Party knows that social change is best created within the framework of tripartite cooperation. There, too, we separate layers from the government. Where the government has systematically underestimated, jumped over and ignored tripartite cooperation in recent years, we will give the families strength and more power. I'm sure we'll get to work for equal pay, and the solutions are right here: in tripartite cooperation. Once we get back to power, of course we'll do more. We will restore the Working Environment Act as a safe and sound protection law, which will make it easier to combine working life with family life. Of course, we don't just want to keep, but we want to strengthen the obligation to report, so that it becomes a more powerful tool for more like-minded businesses. We will set up a new programme where systematic gender equality and work for increased full-time culture is the goal, and we will reintroduce the full-time pot in the government budget, which over three years led to small and large-scale projects across the country, projects in which one succeeded in doing something about part-time work, but which the government has removed. It's going to be in place again. In the run-up to the elections, we will put equality on the agenda. The right-hand side is going to think that we've come far enough, that the time for the big political grips for increased equality is over, that it's over, and that people will have to choose freely. We've heard it before. Old-fashioned right-hand policies often come in modern women's clothes. But we're going out. We see people's challenges. We want to do something with them. The equality has never come about by itself, it is not even given for everyone. I take this up with me the proposal that the Labour Party is on its own in one position, and the proposals that we have with the Christian People's Party in the other position. I'm going to come back a little bit to some changes along the way, as the debate goes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2277	The representative Hege Haukeland Liadal has addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2282	In a law work like this, it's a good thing to lean back a little bit and think a little bit more about why these laws have to be written, what we want to achieve, and not least how we can best achieve the goals. Some of the answers to these questions are simple, some are more complicated. Why do these laws have to be written? Having a law that it should not be discriminated against should be unnecessary. This is about something as fundamental as treating each other with respect, as I am, and as you are. Everyone here agrees, but we still experience in several areas that society around us is missing, as a system, and not least by individuals. Therefore, it is important and essential that we have a law that both guides, facilitates and clarifies the consequences of not properly respecting each other. So what are the objectives of the law? For the Right, it is about putting in place a law that protects vulnerable groups in society. Then the bus must be clear and accessible. So far, we have had four laws in this area. Bringing these together into a single law increases the overall picture and the general availability of the content. We have feedback that it has been difficult to inform ourselves in four different laws. A clear majority of the hearing bodies also gave a positive opinion on the overall proposal for the laws of the day. At the same time, it is important to clarify that the legislative proposal has now been promoted by the government, which is essentially a continuation of the existing law. It is clarified that the aim of the law is to promote equality and to prevent discrimination. When this law is now under treatment, we also follow a promise on the Sundvolden platform, where we stated that we should strengthen equality and create a better protection of discrimination for all by promoting proposals for a universal equality and anti-discrimination law. The right-hand initiative for this is too old. As early as 2006 Right-wing proposed this in a proposal for a representative. Now, finally, the bill is here. Then I have been through the simple answers. Now I'm going to go to that part that's the hardest part to answer in a non-slip way: how can we best achieve our goals? I'll be honest to say that there are obviously several ways to achieve the goals, and that there is a balance and a compilation of instruments that are important. Discrimination and discrimination continue and to a great extent. Then we have to see how we can target the measures and resources in order to achieve even better results than we have achieved so far. Therefore, we have proposed changing resource use and attention. It is proposed to continue and strengthen the work around the obligation of activity. All employers shall be subject to a general obligation of activity, and all public and private employers who regularly employ more than 50 employees shall be subject to a specific obligation of activity. The obligation to make a statement is not proposed. There is activity that improves the situation, not explanations. The proposal is honest and well-meaned as a measure to increase efforts towards activity. Now that it appears that a large majority of people feel that the obligation to make a presentation should be maintained, it is not a major and burdensome defeat and in no way a decisive factor for the intention of the law. Our intention was to increase the effort on activity – we hope the companies will continue to take that signal. For the Right, there has also been an important principle that there are limits to policy. Making this law applicable also within the privacy framework touches on this principle for us. Yes, there are of course laws and rules that apply there, but for us there will be errors in this area. We stand for that, and then the Storting will decide that limit of voting here today. The Equality and Discrimination Act now summarises the prohibition of discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression, the Gender Equality Act, the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of ethnicity, religion and outlook on life and the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of disability. The Government proposes to strengthen the protection of discrimination through some new provisions that do not result from current anti-discrimination legislation. In particular, the Ministry proposes that the universal design of ICT should be extended to the education and training sector, such as: will have a significant impact on both pupils with disabilities and their superiors. The Government also proposes a new provision that educational material and education in kindergartens, schools and other educational institutions should be based on the objectives of the Equality and Discrimination Act. It is also proposed to extend the prohibition of age discrimination to all areas of society and to extend access to positive treatment for men. All these are important clarifications and clarifications of actions that can contribute to higher target achievement and a better everyday life for the groups concerned. Prop. 80 L for 2016-2017 concerns the enforcement of the law. It is important for the confidence of the stakeholders that there are clean and clear border crossings between the actors in the field. The legal conversion has implications for the enforcement apparatus. There are several aspects of today’s enforcement apparatus underpinning the proposal for reorganisation. Firstly, a combination of the Ombudsman’s driving role and the enforcement role may be fundamentally unfortunate, as such a dual role may be suitable for weakening the confidence of the Ombudsman in law enforcement matters. Secondly, the length of the procedure in today’s enforcement system is very long. It is proposed that the law enforcement role be distinguished from the Ombudsman’s task portfolio and transferred to a new enforcement apparatus. The Ombudsman shall continue to provide rights guidance on discrimination legislation, including guidance on the obligation of activity towards employers. The Ombudsman shall also supervise the national implementation of the UN Convention on Women’s Discrimination, the UN Convention on Racial Discrimination and the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. A new enforcement apparatus is built around a name where all cases are dealt with in one instance. However, the possibility of bringing proceedings before the courts for full review at any stage of the administrative procedure will remain. The Ombudsman will be strengthened by the proposed change as a driving force responsible for contributing to greater equality in society through raising awareness and raising awareness, information work, dissemination of knowledge on gender equality and monitoring of the nature of discrimination. Diverging the law enforcement tasks from the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman will give the Ombudsman a more freer position in the driving function, so that they do not need to balance the considerations of neutrality in the law enforcement role and the need to be a clear and socially critical voice in the driving work. A new enforcement system will also provide rapid and effective procedures because one has to deal with only one instance in two ways today. A change outlined here could result in a total time savings of as much as one year per case. Finally, I would like to point out that the Right and the Advance Party are not included in the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, but that we will still vote for this today. We have been aware that the proposal appears to be pre-conclusions, but of course it is important to look at the resources required to follow up and follow up the decision. The government has worked well with the new bill and had good consultation rounds, and it is a comprehensive and good solution we are invited to adopt today. I would also like to include a explanation of vote – in addition to what I have now announced – that the Right and the Advance Party will support proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, in the settings of Prop. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth We will also support the investigations proposed by the Left in its proposal No. 5 and 6, so we will also vote in favour of those proposals. In the case of Prop. 81 L for 2016-2017, we see no reason to stand outside proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, who get a majority in the hall today. We wanted a more precise description, but understand the intention of what is now being done, and will therefore also support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2333	Our task in this room is to adopt laws as an instrument to regulate the society we live in. It is about establishing rights and obligations in such a way that there is a reasonable balance between different considerations. Furthermore, President, we have the responsibility to ensure that the laws we adopt are complied with and that violations of these have consequences, but this is probably the President already known. I am pleased that today we are adopting a enforcement system in the field of gender equality and discrimination which has real consequences for discrimination and discrimination. By providing equality and discrimination-based competence to impose upsizing on matters of employment and simple redress, a clear signal is sent that discrimination should also have a real consequence, and that offenders will be punished. This will be a positive contribution both by increasing incentives for employers to ensure that there is no discrimination in the workplace and by being preventative so that fewer people will experience discrimination. Another positive contribution with the treatment we are doing here today is to ensure a ban on age discrimination, which is becoming more and more relevant to more of us, including outside the labour market. For the Progress Party, an important principle is that humans are equivalent. It also applies regardless of age. Because it shouldn't be that just people get old enough, it's okay to discriminate. Dignity also includes being able to receive the same treatment as everyone else. It is therefore gratifying when we decide today to strengthen the ban on precisely age discrimination. The law shall be user-friendly and as predictable as possible. It's not supposed to give people expectations about rights they don't have. The government wants to put an end to indiscriminate discrimination on the grounds of just age. The law shall not prevent age limits for which there is a factual justification. The government is concerned that the law should be user-friendly, as I said, and as predictable as possible. Although it is an objective for a common law to provide equal protection for all, the law must take account of certain differences. The government believes that a ban on age discrimination is of great value, including with the exceptions proposed. It'll be, for example. as a starting point, the prohibition of having a maximum age limit for the purchase of an apartment or the refusal of any good or service because of age and for no objective reason. There will also be a clear ban on harassment due to age outside employment, and the government also believes that a ban can help change attitudes in society. For some of us who have gotten up a little bit in age, this looks very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2358	The president took that hint.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2363	The central party does not support the government's proposal to merge the four existing equality and discrimination laws into one collective law, as proposed in Prop. 81 L. A number of hearing aids are quite positive enough to collect the laws, but they say that they cannot support the ministry's proposal because they believe that the proposal weakens the protection. It is true that employers' obligations to do good for equality measures are removed and that a common law should not apply to family life or other purely personal matters. A third of the hearing bodies are in any case against the law to be collected, and are based on their opposition to the repeal of equality laws, and that separate laws are the best tool for gender equality and discrimination. The centre party agrees with the many in the audience who believe that gender is in a special position compared to the other grounds of discrimination, and we believe that the proposition that is being made today will not strengthen either the protection of discrimination or equality. We fear, as many hearing authorities, that the opposite will happen if the proposal is adopted. Merging laws is not a goal in itself. The goal must be to improve the law, and that is not the case here, in our opinion. We think it is important to keep equality laws as a law with the corresponding purpose paragraph, as today. In Norway, we still don't have gender equality. We have both individual and structural discrimination against women. We are some in what both the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party write in the statement that equality law has an important symbol effect and is a Norwegian trademark. Strong legal environment and interest groups also warn against merging the laws, which would weaken the protection of discrimination. Norway’s Handicap Federation is e.g. against the proposal. We support the proposals of the Christian People's Party and the Labour Party to back up what is positive with the government's proposals, with existing laws – such as universal ICT design obligations, that they cover the education and training sector, that teaching and teaching should be based on the objective of the law, that the ban on age discrimination should be extended to all areas of society, that one should be able to provide positive special treatment for women and men, and that the protection of pregnant women's discrimination should be strengthened. We also agree with the proposal of the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party to maintain and strengthen the obligation of activity and the obligation to do good for equality measures, to include the private sphere in the field of discrimination law, and to extend the description of discrimination in law. Then to Prop. 80 L on a new antidiscrimination law, which has proposed a new organisation of the activities of the enforcement system, which is currently carried out by the Equality and Discrimination Office and the Equality and Discrimination Department. The centre party does not support the proposal from the government for a new organisation here. We believe that the ban still has to have both a driving role and an enforcement role, and we fear that the proposal will weaken its role. We have put forward an own proposal on this matter. It's almost like the Workers' Party proposal. The difference is that we have removed the words ‘localisation’ and ‘state budget’. So we're not going to commit to an extra budget. It's not because we think the ban doesn't need to increase the budget, but we think it's an assessment that belongs at home in a budgetary process and not in a law like this. But we want to strengthen the role of the ban. It's important to us. We do not vote in favour of the alternative proposal from the Left, which will give authority, but we can support the proposal No. 5 and 6, which the Left has put forward in the proposal for Prop. 80 L. Then I'm going to deal with the proposal from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2378	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2384	A common equality and discrimination law would be a promise for a number of groups who today feel that one does not have adequate protection against discrimination. It's about everyone having equal opportunities to exploit their abilities, live their lives and participate actively in society. The left's intention with a common law is a stronger and broader protection against discrimination. A stronger and broader protection against discrimination should not prejudice the fight against gender discrimination and discrimination against minorities. Laws aim specifically at improving the position of women and minorities. The new law extends the universal design of ICT to include the challenge and training sector. Equal access is given to positive specific treatment for women and men, the extension of the list of self-sustaining grounds for discrimination in pregnancy, maternity leave or adoption and care tasks, compound discrimination is explicitly prohibited, and age is included as a basis for discrimination, with reasonable limits. This supports Left. In some important areas, however, changes are needed. The left believes it's important that laws take heights so that there can be other relationships than those listed, which can lead to discrimination against people. In the past we have had too poor protection of groups that no one saw would experience discrimination. For example, people with HIV and hetero-filed trans-persons fall between the categories of today's laws that protect them. For this reason, the Left supports proposal No. 5 in the setting for case No. 6, which states that listing the basis for discrimination in the first paragraph of Section 1 of the Equality and Discrimination Act must include other essential aspects of a person. The left also wants to retain the obligation of activity and distribution. Prevention is crucial to prevent discrimination. Only through awareness-raising and targeted action will we be able to fight discrimination in the labour market. It is often about changing postures, and it has to be done through systematic work over time. Therefore, the obligation to operate is important. For enterprises that work actively for equality and against discrimination, the obligation to distribute provides an opportunity to show what one does and what the result is. The left supports proposal No. 3 in the setting for case No. 6, to maintain the obligation of activity and distribution and to strengthen it by following up the recommendations of the Skjeie Selection for changes. For the Left, it is important to protect against discrimination indebtedness in all areas of society, even if it cannot be equally enforced in all areas. The law is normative, and the signal effect is important. That overrules the signal is that we do not accept discrimination. That is why we want to support proposal No. 4 in the setting for case No. 6, that the law will apply in all areas of society, and thus we support a different wording of the first paragraph of Section 2 of the law than that which follows from the recommendation. The Government has proposed a change in the division of tasks between the Equality and Discrimination Office and the Equality and Discrimination Department. The left has come that we do not support this change. With common law and the inclusion of several bases in laws, we fear that a transfer of tasks and resources from the mandate to the mandate could lead to a weakening of the protection of discrimination. We are also concerned about ensuring the low-threshold supply of the drug supply and fear that a one-stop shop with write-only requirements will raise the threshold for reporting cases. If the threshold is too high, it is not really protected. We propose, therefore, to keep the division of tasks of today, but that the name of today be given the competence to impose penalties on employment and compensation in simple cases. We have submitted an own proposal on this, which has been taken up. A professionalization of the name, as outlined by the government, will require more resources from both parties. We therefore believe that a possible solution that makes it necessary to re-assess the need to grant free legal aid with the need to test this area. Our proposal that it is thus taken up. Furthermore, we believe that one must also consider a low-threshold offer for the enforcement of the prohibition against sexual harassment. There is no need for it, it may also be handled by the Labour Inspectorate. Sexual harassment in the labour market is a major challenge for many, and in some sectors it is more exposed than in others. According to the SSB annual life-cycle surveys, the number of people who are known to be sexually harassed in Norwegian workplaces is increasing. The ban on sexual harassment is enforced through the courts today, but very few cases are brought in. For this reason, the Left wishes to deal with a low-threshold offer, and the proposal to do so is taken up. The fight for equality is an important part of the history of the Left. The gender equality struggle is in a special position, and Norway has come a long way in promoting gender equality. Nevertheless, we have to recognize that we have not been equally good at raising up other groups. Therefore, it is important that we now include other grounds for discrimination than gender in the new law. Equality laws have an important symbolic force that will help give the whole field a lift.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2412	The representative of Sveinung Rotevatn has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2417	Today, we are discussing one of the country's and the women's movement's proud victories, namely the Equality Act, at the entrance to the 40th anniversary of the law. It's a law that's still in a special position globally. It was controversial in its conception and historical at birth, and it is unfortunately very topical today – and most necessary. Therefore, a hope would be that when the Storting made significant changes to the law, there were unambiguous reinforcements that were carried out, but that was not the case. There are in particular three problems we in SV see with the changes in the law. Making the law general makes it worse. One main problem is that the laws that were introduced as a strengthening of the protection of minorities to the level of women’s protection, as it is called, instead weaken the protection of women without strengthening minority protection. This substantial amendment to the Equality Act should promote equality and be an attitude-forming one. The law has served us well. Therefore, the government should listen to the criticism made during the consultation of women’s organisations and other organisations and associations, that the amendment of the law would weaken the promotion of gender equality and not strengthen the prohibition of discrimination against all others. There are different grounds and reasons for different forms of discrimination. This must be clarified rather than mixed. Discrimination against women is a social problem that requires social change. It is not just an individual responsibility. It is not accidental when women experience discrimination in private, in the workplace or at society level. It's about power relationships. One might perhaps expect that even though the Progress Party in most of its existence has rejected these fundamental differences in power between women and men, the rest of the government college could have pointed it out to them. The second is that the law must also apply to private relationships. It is serious that the protection of women should no longer apply in the family and in private circumstances. To remove the fact that the law is about private matters is a special change that we have problems understanding the reason for. The law has normative effect. It is preventive and mind-building and should also, of course, be able to address how people live their lives and counteract the discrimination that some women are subjected to, in their homes and in their families. We can't see that there are good examples that this is a change that is necessary or called upon by how the law of now has been practiced. Thirdly, we must take seriously the fact that there are major gender equality challenges in the labour market. Therefore, all employers should continue to be responsible for promoting equality, preventing discrimination and reporting on this. There has been a very useful tool in the work on gender equality in Norway. Reporting on the situation in Norwegian working life has contributed to the knowledge base of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman. It should be strengthened instead of being removed. The right-hand argument that an employer’s statement is bureaucratic is completely absurd. This reporting is self-conscious and mind-building and is likely to lead to more equality in employment than would otherwise have been the case. SV also accepts the division of equality functions. We're not yet at the point where we can lean back and say we're satisfied. One speaks from a position of considerable privilege when one is privileged politician and on behalf of everyone else in society says that now we tolerate a little less the protection of women in the law. It is not surprising that it comes from the Progress Party. Ten years ago, current Minister of Knowledge Torbjørn Røe Isaksen wrote an excellent chronicle in the Contemporary Times where it was called: ‘I am tempted to say that the Right and the FrP alone will bring out the worst in each other.’ I wonder if the idea of giving the Progress Party responsibility for gender equality policy in Norway was one of the cases of Røe Isaksen at the time. I am at least surprised that the Right is in the running of the Council of State in this field. It does not serve Norwegian equality fights in honor, and it strictly does not serve the Right in honor either.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2441	First, I would like to thank you for the debate so far. The Government has submitted a proposal for an overall equality and discrimination law and proposals for changes to the enforcement system. Let me stress that here there is no equality law that is being scrapped or dead. It thus changes the name of a common law on equality and discrimination. With these amendments, we will have a stronger and clearer protection against discrimination and more effective sanctions. It is a historic milestone that the denominator now will have authority to impose upliftment and replacement. Discrimination is a serious problem both for those affected and for society. It is important that we have a powerful and good law that prohibits discrimination and that facilitates good equality. Today we have four almost equal laws of discrimination and a lot of preprocessors who say something about how the laws should be understood. The law is unwieldy and not user-friendly. Although there was some resistance when the bill was being consulted, a large majority of the hearing bodies wanted a single law. Today’s laws have also been criticised for ranking the grounds for discrimination. For those discriminated against, discrimination plays little role as a result of ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation or functionality. The Government proposes more equal protection for the different grounds of discrimination, while continuing the nuances of current legislation. The aim of the law is to promote equality and prevent discrimination. The government has listened to the hearing bodies, and we suggest that the law should in particular aim to improve the position of women and minorities and to contribute to the reduction of social barriers to disability. The government also proposes to strengthen the protection of discrimination on important points. For the first time, we are protected against discrimination on grounds of age, even outside the labour market. Access to positive treatment for men is extended in order to provide women and men with the same legal protection against discrimination. We propose a universal ICT design obligation in schools and training institutions. It will make it easier for pupils with disabilities to participate in education and for parents with disabilities to follow up their schooling. We propose to strengthen and clarify the employer’s obligation of activity. Absolutely all employers, regardless of sector and size, must be obliged to work actively for equality and against discrimination on all grounds of discrimination. The government expects all enterprises to comply with statutory obligations and to work actively for equality, even if they do not have to explain this. The government has more faith in good, active duties than in bureaucratic and resource-intensive paperwork. Today, it is difficult to understand what the laws of discrimination give right and duty. The Government therefore proposes to make the rules clearer. We make clear the strict protection against discrimination in the labour market and the strict protection against discrimination on grounds of pregnancy. We are also proposing a clearer ban on complex discrimination. It's not just keeping a good law. There must be consequences for discrimination. A good enforcement apparatus requires clear roles and effective penalties. The Ombudsman today has both a law enforcement role and a driving role. This is fundamentally unfortunate because the driving role can affect the role of objective enforcement. It is important to have a enforcement apparatus that is trusted by both parties. The Ombudsman has and will continue to play a central role in ensuring equality and combating discrimination. If the proposal is adopted, the Ombudsman will become a purely enforcement body similar to that of the Children’s Ombudsman. The Ombudsman will also have a freer role as a watchman and a critical voice. The guidance function of the ombudsman shall be continued unchanged and guidance cases will also provide a good basis for experience in the important driving work of the ombudsman. For persons discriminated against, it is important to have their case dealt with promptly within a legally secure framework and that the offence actually has consequences. We therefore propose a simpler procedure and more effective instruments. The case-handling time of today’s enforcement apparatus is too long. It may take up to two years between the submission of the case to the Ombudsman until the final decision is available. We therefore propose that a new class of discrimination should deal with all matters in one instance. The procedure under the new heading will be faster and more prudent. In order to ensure sound procedure and proper decision-making, judicial experience shall also be required of the directors of the denominator. The subject has no authority today to impose damages and damages. Those who have been discriminated against must bring their own actions before the courts. However, case-law shows that very few such cases are brought before the courts. Effective penalties require the enforcement of offences. We therefore propose that the subject of discrimination should be given authority to impose upliftment on matters of employment and compensation in simpler circumstances. This is a milestone and an innovation. I notice that the Committee's minority wants to keep the Equality Act. But I also record that they write in the note that it should only happen if it will improve the law. That's the content of the law, and not the number of laws, which means something. The vast majority of the provisions of the Equality Act are continued, including their purpose. In addition, we are proposing a number of new rules that will provide better protection against gender discrimination, including: new rules on pregnancy discrimination and discrimination due to care tasks. In other words, the law is both clearer and better. The minority of the Committee will also continue the obligation of employers to make representations and the scope of the Equality Act in family and private life. Although the gender equality law currently applies in this area, it is clearly stated in the law and in the pre-workers that it should not be enforced in family and private life, either by the enforcement system or by the courts. I expect most people to agree that this law should not be enforced in family and private life either. This must also be clarified both in this law and in the new Act on Discrimination. The wording of the minority proposal does not exempt enforcement. I want to give the law greater authority by removing symbol regulations and obligations without effect. It is the obligation of activity that is important for gender equality, and that is why we propose to strengthen it. I have also noticed the minority proposal from the Workers' Party, where one wants to give the Discrimination Ombudsman authority to impose upsizing on matters of employment and compensation in some cases. I find reason to warn against such a solution, because the Ombudsman does not take a decision today. The Ombudsman only delivers non-binding opinions. In the event that the Ombudsman is to be given authority to impose suspension and compensation, the decision-making authority must first be given. Providing the Ombudsman with the competence to take decisions would involve a dramatic change and a modified framework for the enforcement system. I think this is unfortunate, and also reminds me that when the Equality Ombudsman was set up in 2006, it was assessed whether the Ombudsman should be given the decision-making powers. But it was shown that it would give the Ombudsman an unfortunate double role that could be suitable for weakening confidence in the work. I believe that the same consideration applies today. In my opinion, the relatively high conversion rate in the denominator underpins this – the result was different in 2016 from that of the ombudsman in 35 pst. of the appeals cases. Nor did the Skjeie Committee propose in its 2011 investigation to provide the Ombudsman with the right of appeal and compensation. It is absolutely vital that legal certainty be given to dealing with cases of reparation and compensation. We therefore propose that there be a call for judicial experience on the part of the leaders of the new class of discrimination. In addition, the parties shall be granted an unconditional right to be heard in actions for rescheduling. It shall ensure a fair treatment and facilitate a counter-dictation for the party and witness hearings. The proposals under consideration, which have been promoted by the government today, we believe to provide a comprehensive, strong and clear equality and discrimination law and a law that will ensure better enforcement of discrimination cases, and are a solid foundation for the work on equality and against discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2489	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2494	New knowledge from the source and the research environment CORE from May 2017 shows that Norway is slowly but surely behind both Sweden, Finland and Iceland in terms of gender equality. This is the backbone of what we are debating today. Does the Council of State mean that she has taken the gender equality forward with her grip?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2499	The backbone of today's debate is a new equality and discrimination law and a strengthened enforcement system. For the first time, discrimination will have consequences, which the previous government failed to take with them when they dealt with the anti-discrimination law in 2013. Norway is one of the world's most equal countries. We're one of the best Nordic countries on equality. The report referred to by the representative shows that the proportion of women in the private sector is low. So, although there are quota rules today, the side effects of those quota rules have not turned on, and we have a challenge to put in place more female leaders. That work is not something that the state can do alone, it must be in cooperation with the companies. It's a work that this government takes the most seriously, and we also cooperate with the business community to get more women leaders in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2506	I thank you for your answer. As former representatives have been involved in their contributions, the Equality Act is a trademark law for Norway. International attention has been given to it, as has the race discrimination law in the United States. What is it like to be a Minister for Gender Equality and to abolish – liquidate – the Equality Act today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2511	I can assure the representative that it is a good feeling to be a Minister for Gender Equality today, when we adopt a new equality and discrimination law. I repeat: there is no equality law that is being scrapped or is dead today, it remains under a new name: the Equality and Discrimination Act. The Equality and Discrimination Act provides a clearer protection for women by maintaining the purpose paragraph to highlight the position of women, and by strengthening, or clarifying, the protection of pregnant women from discrimination, and not least that of complex discrimination, because we know that women are more exposed to complex discrimination than others. So today's decision is historic, and I'm glad we're now getting a new, common equality and discrimination law in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2516	I would like to spend a little time setting up something that was said by the Council of State, namely that with regard to the proposal from the Workers' Party and the Centre to give the Ombudsman the opportunity to exercise the right of redress and compensation authority, she also said that the Christian People's Party was behind it. It doesn't do the Christian People's Party. It's the left behind it. So to my question. I said in the post that in the 100 largest Norwegian companies there is only 15 pst. women in senior management positions in the private sector. There's something better in state-owned companies -- 33 pst. When the Council of State proposes to remove the obligation to make representations, how does it perceive that the number of women in executive positions should be able to increase in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2523	I'm not going to spend time clarifying things here, but the left has its own proposal where they say that the denominator is going to have the opportunity for an upliftment. The representative addresses an important issue, because it is worrying that although we have a quota rule today, there are too few women in senior positions. That is why we have supported the work done to make it clear that this is something that business itself must work for. But getting more women into leading positions starts with the untraditional choices girls and boys take on education, and with the gender-shared labour market we have. For me, it has been important that we have an activity obligation, as we make clear in today's proposal, which obliges employers to pursue an active gender equality policy, and that it applies to all areas. I believe that what is under the obligation of activity, which is legislated, is more important than the obligation of presentation itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2533	I think it's good to put emphasis on the duty of activity, but I can't understand, however, how that duty of activity can be followed up and have a meaning if you don't have to report on it at the same time and explain the activity that the Council of State thinks they will strengthen in this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2538	The disclosure obligation does not work according to the intention as it is practiced today. It is perceived as bureaucratic and as something the accountant fills in the annual report. For this reason, I would rather strengthen the obligation of activity and replace the obligation of presentation with positive actions such as information, dialogue and dissemination of good experience. We know that the obligation of activity can have an important function even without the obligation of presentation, in particular with the reinforcement and the concreteness of the proposal at present.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2543	If the obligation to make a statement is seen as a red tape that has not been of great importance, why has the Council not taken an initiative to strengthen the obligation to make a statement and to make it more up to date and more appropriate to what the obligation to make a statement is to reveal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2548	For the government, it has been important to strengthen the obligation of activity, that it applies to all foundations and not only to the equality law, as before, and that all enterprises should have this obligation of activity. Then I believe that in other ways we can pursue active and good gender equality policies and make serious companies comply with statutory obligations and actively work for equality. It has been more important than strengthening reporting obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2555	The Progress Party has been on the wrong side of history in a number of historical and important equality issues, almost most of them in Stortinget, at the latest in its in-depth fight against common marriage law. This commitment on the part of the State Council to the equality issue must be personal, for in the recently adopted programme of the Progress Party, there are nine lines to read about equality, and two of them are about how wrong it is with quotas. There are more than twice as many tolls in the Progress Party programme as it says about equality. It does not even say that lack of equality in Norway is a problem. Actually, it's nothing. With what authority is the Progress Party talking about gender equality policy? Why should the overwhelming majority of Nordics who disagree with the Progress Party on equality issues listen to the Solvency Horne and the proposals of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2562	Now it might be that there's little about equality because we've achieved a lot in these four years. With today's decision on the new equality and discrimination law, it has consequences for the first time to discriminate, by now giving the name a decision-making competence. It did not happen under SV, which had the Minister for Gender Equality, but it happens under the Progress Party, which has the Minister for Gender Equality. I would like to stress that the Progress Party takes equality work seriously, and believes that one of the greatest challenges we have in the field of equality is violence in close relationships. It's working on it. If the representative looks up in the party program of the Advance Party on what is going on fighting violence in close relations, he will see that there is an active policy in that field. The Progress Party has an active gender equality policy. Thanks to the cooperation between SV and the Progress Party, we got in place the children's gardening effort with full kindergarten development. So it's a lot thanks to the SV and the Progress Party that women today can go out and stay in the workplace the way they do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2571	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2576	If the president noticed a call from the gallery under the Council of State's response to the first line, it was from my daughter in a little over a year. If it was in protest against the Government's response or in glad to see again his father, we can let hang in the air. Equality may be among Norway’s leading brands internationally. It makes the whole world look at Norway. We often get, even for this house, delegations from abroad who want to learn from Norwegian history. Most of the North today live in a reality of great personal freedom. How did we get here? Did it happen by itself? No, of course that's the result of politics — of social democracy policy. Gradually and over many years, rights, laws, enforcement, extended fatherhood have been strengthened to mention something. Why did we do that? Well, that's because we want a society where everyone is involved, and where you don't get left to yourself if you encounter problems. For us, equality is not just party speeches; it's a laborious work towards a larger goal. For us, the excellent progress that Norway has made inspires us to continue to strengthen gender equality. Then we have the Right, the Advance Party and the Solvency Horn. Over four years they have, step by step, put equality in reverses. We lay and the cruise in the sixth gives under the red-green government, at great speed towards the equidistant society. Then the government cut down in Dad's time and turned down to the fifth. Then they increased the cash support and gave it down to the fourth. Then they increased the kindergarten queues and kindergarten prices and the gear down to the third. Then they introduced policies for increasing temporaryity in work and shifting down to others. Then they reduced work towards involuntary part-time and shifted down to the first. So now they're going to weaken both the law and the enforcement apparatus. It's putting the equality work completely in reverse. But then Horne – despite persistent attempts in her post the other day – experiences being parked, again and again in some areas. There was massive criticism of gender equality, and the Stortinget imposed a number of decisions on the government to strengthen equality. The Council of State is now experiencing a defeat even in the field of reporting obligations and the fact that the law does not apply in the private sphere. I'm glad. But today, as in many other matters we are discussing in this Chamber, the Christian People's Party and the Left are changing to ensure the government's impact on some of their main priorities. It is sad, and it will, in sum, weaken gender equality in Norway. Then I hear that there are promises about money once in the future. Yes, such promises have been made by the government in the past, for example. when they weakened the LHBT centre. Then there was to be a reinforcement to the whole field. But we haven't seen any of the world's things for that, and I fear the same thing will happen with these promises as well. But regardless of that, the grip is about something more. It's about rediscovering parts of the professional expertise in the ombudsman with the root, and moving out professional environments is a total weakening of the enforcement system. You have to ask yourself: When you had occasion both in the gender equality report and in this work, especially when you have the many decisions taken by the Stortinget on gender equality, why is it that the government never comes up with measures that will strengthen equality in Norway? It's a mystery to me. The Labour Party will keep the special laws and strengthen them. We want to strengthen the enforcement apparatus through both representatives and a strengthened denominator. And we want to strengthen equality work in the workplace. There is a need for a whole new approach to gender equality. We have to move forward. We still need to achieve new goals. But it's quite obvious to everyone that we're going to get there, Norway needs a new majority in the autumn elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2599	For the Right, opportunities for anyone are more than just one slogan. Possibilities for all go like a blue thread through all our policies. Our goal is that everyone should be able to work to achieve their dreams, without being discriminated against. Today's protection of discrimination is spread across four different laws. This makes the rules less accessible to those who experience discrimination. There is little sense in having a protection that is known or found out. That's why we're now bringing together the four laws into one law. Our objective is a strong, consistent and clear piece of legislation that ensures effective protection against discrimination. It should be easy to see the protection against discrimination, and it should be easy to see what obligations there are to avoid discrimination. The law does not comply with this today, so we are impatient in the Right after adopting a strong, uniform and clear law. In the debate on new law, the Labour Party has tried to create the impression that we are removing the Equality Act. That's wrong. The Equality Act has been groundbreaking and important, and neither content nor history is lost by its incorporation into a common law. The word « equality» is retained in the title of the law and it is proposed that the purpose of the law should be, in particular, to improve the position of women. Many girls and women with a minority background experience discrimination both because they are women and because they have a minority background. Composite discrimination is a problem. The prohibition of complex discrimination is now clarified in the legislative text, and a common law will in itself make it easier to see and raise awareness of the grounds for discrimination in the context. Too many mothers and fathers experience discrimination when they plan to have children, have children in their stomachs, or go home with children. This is a vulnerable period, as cancers are to be applied to the child, not to fight prejudices. It therefore seems important to the right that the law makes clear the strict protection against discrimination against pregnancy, and that a separate provision is proposed to clarify that the lack of organisation for pregnant women at work and in education is discrimination. The new law also protects women and men from discrimination on the grounds of care tasks. Today, there are good solutions for everyone to take advantage of ICT when they go to school. But it doesn't help if the school you go to hasn't chosen the universally designed ICT solutions. Everyone must have equal access to education, but the means of learning must be available to all. The new law extends the universal design of ICT to the education and training sector. This will have a major impact on both pupils and parents with disabilities. It doesn't just help to be right; it's also important to be able to get right. Today, the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman has a two-part role to play, which drives and law enforcement. It's a mix of roles that's basically unlucky. Law enforcement tasks are now being transferred from the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman to a new and strengthened gender equality and discrimination class. The Ombudsman will thus have an organisational model similar to that of the Children’s Ombudsman today. In addition, the new denominator shall be provided with the possibility of imposing adjudicating cases of discrimination within the labour market and limited access to the award of financial losses in certain matters within and outside the labour market. Let me also mention that one of the main intentions of the law is to reduce the processing time. It is today more than two years old, and it is burdensome both for the accused and for the complainant himself. Treatment time will go down because the name is reindeer cultivated. At the same time, the Ombudsman is given greater opportunity to carry out his driving task. Living without discrimination should be a matter of course. Therefore, the Right is proud and happy that we finally adopt a strong, uniform and clear law, and that we are now giving people who are being discriminated against an opportunity to have their rights fulfilled, checked and justified in a safe, efficient and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2624	When Torbjørn Røe Isaksen concludes in an interview with ANB that the problem for the nursing profession is that it is a typical female drug, and that development is not healthy, he confirms and supports that we have not come far enough in terms of gender equality, and that we therefore need a good law. The question I am asking myself is whether this is taken seriously enough by the government that is now sitting and whether they really want to do something about it. It is desirable that more men in a professionally demanding and challenging profession, with an exciting and rich professional working day, and more men in kindergartens and schools, where the majority are women today. In terms of health, part-time use is particularly common — desired or undesirable. That's about 40 pst. of the caregivers and about 60 pst. by nurses who have a full-time job. Then it is not so nice that the profession does not appeal to men. Traditionally, they will have full positions and will not accept to shop guards to fill up the entire position. Neither should women. Part-time is unpredictable. It's hard to plan the economy and leisure. Many have to take guards that are otherwise difficult to cover. Temporary workers have to work weekends and holidays to secure a living income. During the treatment of the gender equality message, the Workers’ Party was given a majority to increase efforts against women’s part-time jobs and to make demands on all public enterprises to reduce the use of part-time jobs. It is in the public sector most jobs, so the municipality and state have to go ahead with a good example. We also wanted to reintroduce the annual full-time pot for measures to create a full-time culture and specify requirements to reduce the use of part-time in health businesses. We didn't get a majority for that. We agree that we need more men in the care profession, so we need to put in place more measures to increase equality and make the profession attractive. Under the Stoltenberg government, we made it, for example. an involuntary part-time programme that made concrete demands to reduce time use in hospitals by 20 pst. It is an example of systematic work that has produced results and the use of part-time was reduced in line with the requirement. There was also a full-timepot for local interventions that could be used for trials that local authorities could apply for in order to increase the employment rate. Municipalities need to find good solutions for more full-time jobs, and they need help to do so. Fafo has subsequently evaluated this, and it turns out that there have been positive actions. Action must be taken to get more men into the professions we want, but there must be more than a tribute speech and a newspaper interview. It has to be invested, as the Stoltenberg government did, and as the next government of the Workers' Party is going to do. If you want something to do with equality, the means you have and a strong law must be used, along with good role models. It's great to talk about equality in party speeches and standing abroad and telling us how far we've come in Norway, but when it's yellow in our lamp, we're on our way to a less equal society, which is what the government gets now, if they keep going as they do. Unfortunately, the party of progress has been given the advantage of putting the whole equality in reverse, and I think it is a pity that the Right is in it. I thought the Right was more forward-looking. The fact that the Christian People's Party and the Left provide for a majority of the amendments is also regrettable. They should support a more equal society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2645	The gender equality and discrimination ombudsman is doing an invaluable job today, both as a driving force and as a enforcer, in order to increase equality and prevent discrimination. It is less than 10 years since the Ombudsman became what it is today. The organisation has settled, it works well, and one has great benefits from an established, multidisciplinary and collective environment of competence. It is now proposed that organisational changes threaten large parts of what has been built up over several years. We are not necessarily opposed to organisational changes in the field of equality and discrimination – on the contrary. It should be implemented if it can lead to enhanced work against discrimination and for increased equality. The problem is that we can't see that the present Prop. 80 L for 2016-2017 will do so. On the contrary, there is reason to fear that gender equality and anti-discrimination work will be significantly weakened if the proposal is implemented. A fragmentation of the professional environment can have very negative consequences. It was also thoroughly discussed in the hearing held by the Committee. A major advantage of having enforcement responsibility and enforcement responsibility together is that the work on individual cases on the enforcement side highlights structural discrimination and thus provides important insight into the enforcement work. It is also a misunderstanding that we will not give up powers within today's structure. We will, and we have also proposed this today. Of course, we are basically positive about establishing state jobs outside Oslo, but we know from experience from other state moves that get, if any, employees join when the workplace is moved. We fear – for good reason – that the relocation of the subjects will lead to a deterioration in the enforcement system for many years. Then it's getting hard to see the good reasons to split up and move out. If, through experience, we had seen adverse effects of a double role in the Ombudsman or lack of independence, that would of course be a good argument, but that is not the case. We can use the Skee Selection as a basis for that conclusion. They could not find that the two main functions were distorted, nor that the enforcement work had weakened the law enforcement or given the Ombudsman reduced legitimacy as a law enforcement agent. We clearly believe that today’s organisation allows the Ombudsman to learn lessons from the law enforcement work and to propose policies that prevent similar issues. We believe that it strengthens the Ombudsman as an environment of competence. A desire to build up gender equality skills and ensure strong trade unions more places in the country we can also stand behind, but it had the huge majority of opportunities to do last autumn. We proposed 20 million in our alternative state budget. extra to strengthen existing equality centres existing and to establish two new ones. It would be a much better solution to ensure wider equality skills more places in the country than to do what the government is now proposing, to shift skills at the expense of the most central equality environment we have. We are aware that there is a proposal here today to ensure that there is money to help you build a new enforcement environment without weakening the totality. There's a lot to say about it. Firstly, it is not reassuring to adopt a split here today and then wait until the state budget to follow up with money. Anyone who has been through a budgetary process knows how uncertain it can be. If the government had been concerned about strengthening the Ombudsman, we would not have seen that grip here now. I think it's that simple. And it doesn't help with promises of money in future budgets. Secondly, regardless of whether it had been accompanied by money, it would lead to a deterioration, because we know from experience that it is difficult to move skills together with the workplace. Building a new environment of competence will take time, and it will mean losing years for gender equality. Thirdly, whether there should be enough money, whether or not there is a competence environment built up for a few years at the current level, there is still an incorrect structural approach to take, because the division of professional environments and work tasks in itself eliminates the possibility of synergies and benefits associated with seeing the driving role and the enforcement role as a whole. We are, regardless of increased frames or not, against the very basic idea of splitting the environment. We believe that this will mean less effective work on equality and anti-discrimination. That's why we say as we do, suggest as we do, and vote as we do, today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2671	It is obvious that the positions have been clarified in this matter. So we don't need a long debate, just some comments, and a lot of it goes on this story. The last speaker was up and talking about these movements, where it sounds as if the competence disappeared overnight. I have followed such processes, not least as rapporteur in a region that has moved to state jobs. It's going to be fine. Some of the people who moved out have even said that it was easier to get the skills they needed, where they came, in our case in South Africa, because there were many who wanted to work with them, and who had taken that education. We felt that people moved back home to that part of the country to take these exciting jobs into use. We have not experienced any loss of competence in any way – rather, strengthened competence. I have more examples of that, but we can talk about that afterwards, so that the representative is calmed down. Then I have to admit that the enormous, touching love of presentation surprises me a little. Those of us who have been in many corporate boards and many corporate assemblies, and kept the thread for many years, know how these things are handled. What really matters is what the Council of State has pointed out, that the obligation of activity is being followed up. The activity is not modified by the statutory auditor entering a sentence in the annual accounts. No, it's changed by the fact that there's follow-up, active follow-up, of what's happening out there, and that's exactly what the government has initiated. We still have to fight for equality. A law alone does not create equality – I fully agree with the representative of the Workers' Party who said so. We're on the whole line, and that's good. We are also in line with the fact that the Equality Act in Norway has had a signal effect in other countries. I am very pleased that we now have an equality and discrimination law, which I hope gives the same signal effect in other countries, namely that the other groups are also included, because they also need to learn in many other countries. We're raising the other groups, and we've got clear feedback that it feels. It's important. Then there are still challenges, we agree on that in this room. Now there's been some grip, and then we're all going to make sure that it's a law of equality and discrimination, lifting all of these groups, so that they're more clearly helped in their situation. That is why I struggle to say that gender equality has a special position. No, for each of those who are discriminated against and not treated in the same way, it's so serious that I don't want to put one group in front of the other. All those who are so discriminated against must have exactly the same protection, exactly the same follow-up, exactly the same attention from our side. Then there are different quantities, different volumes, in the different areas, but each person who experiences it has to be sure that they get follow-up from us. I am perhaps most concerned that this debate is about what businesses are going to do, what the state is going to do, while perhaps we have the biggest challenge in the everyday life of the individual around us. It's just taking a round of times into social media and seeing the comments, you can see that it's not always that they're characterized by non-discrimination and respect for other people's differences. It's scary sometimes. We have a job to do, each of us, when it comes to talking about this as something important. The important thing today is that in this Chamber we are going to end up with the adoption of a law on equality and discrimination, which should have a good enforcement system. And that's going to be a little bit neater with the solution that we're now getting. We get an active representative, who can influence and follow up and see that everything is done according to the rules and conventions that apply, and then we get a clean enforcement device. That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2686	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2691	Let me just first give a little comment to the chairman's comments. I agree that all discrimination must be combated, but I deeply disagree that it should not continue to be a special focus on equality, for equality and the challenges we see there have very deep, structural reasons, which means that in future we too need to have a major focus on what is involved in gender equality policy. That is why I disagree that this should now be merged. Then I disagree with the Workers' Party when they frame all this that the government has then put in reverse, and mention the cash support. The Christian People's Party and I believe that it is a good thing to combine good family policies with good gender equality policies. And in the case of cash support, the joy is that in the last ten years, the number of fathers who choose to be at home with cash support has increased. I deeply disagree with the Workers' Party. Combining family and gender policies is a good thing. That's where the Christian People's Party sits. Then we get criticism to give the government support in dividing names and representatives. I believe in principle that if the ombudsman had now also been given authority to impose fines, I am afraid that the legitimacy and trust of the ombudsman would be compromised. Therefore, the Christian People's Party supports the government in this operation, provided that it is financed, and provided that the role of the ombudsman is not impaired. We have now received a clear message that we will have a majority in favour of that. And when you talk about the future budget, we're talking about the budget for 2018. Even when the budget is presented in October, we're going to look for lights and magnifying lights to find the money that's needed to strengthen the Ombudsman's role. But we are most concerned that no action is being taken that weakens the confidence of the Ombudsman and the legitimacy of the Ombudsman. I take up the Christian People's Party's proposal in case no. 5, and then I would like to signal that I would recommend the Christian People's Party Group to support the Left's proposal No. 5 and 6 on the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2702	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2707	I am not going to extend the debate, but it is quite clear that the Labour Party has come in election mode, for the purpose of black-painting this government's equality policy, one should look for a long time. It may be because they need to pay attention to the fact that things haven't worked out so well, but it's actually done well, because never have so few women worked part-time and so many full-time jobs. When we took over, we worked 40 pst. of women part-time, in 2016 the number was 37 pst. Correspondingly, the proportion has increased from 60 to 63 pst. during the same period. The difference between women’s and men’s average earnings has decreased from 2015 to 2016, and according to labour market statistics, there are 22,000 more female leaders in 2016 than when we took over in 2013. Several children go to kindergarten, fewer use cash support, and most women with children work full time. This shows that good welfare schemes for families with children provide results and are important for combining family life and working life. We are building on strengthening today's gender equality structure, and each sector is also responsible for promoting gender equality in its own fields. The Directorate for Children and Youth is given a central role as a professional body. I could still -- and if this is equality in reverse, I don't know. Then I would like to stress what the representative Mandt was about, namely how important it is to get more men into the health and care professions. Then I am very happy that we today decide that there is a possibility of positive special treatment for men, because we need more men into the health and care professions. Today, municipalities do not have the opportunity to enter and encourage men to apply for such jobs. So with today's amendment of the law, it's possible. Recognising that men face gender equality challenges in 2017 is also important for this government in gender equality. Then there are several people who mention that we are weakening the enforcement apparatus with now putting in place a strengthened mention. That is completely wrong, because with this decision we will have a clear representative who has a driving role, not a double role, which is still to have a supervisor function, and which can also be a real watchman for us politicians. So we're strengthening equality. There will be faster treatment, and there will now be an opportunity to provide upliftment. When the Workers' Party stands here and emphasises that they will give up to an agent who does not have decision-making powers today, I would just say that even if we do not agree with the Left, at least the Left has done better work than the Workers' Party has done in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2718	There are no concrete indications that the legitimacy of the Ombudsman is impaired by the addition of the driving and enforcement role to the same body, so what is behind the claim of the Council of State on this matter requires an explanation. Hopefully, the Council of State will explain it to you. When it comes to keeping up the obligation of activity, we're happy about it. But instead of developing, the obligation to make a presentation seems strange to us. It would have been natural that the Council of State had explained something different on questions from the representative Becquerading. It's similar to kids having homework at school, but the teacher doesn't check them out. Today, the Equality Act is being scrapped on the Right and the Guard of the Advance Party. There's nothing else to say about it. In addition, the Workers' Party will support the proposals No. 5 and 6 from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2729	I record that the representative Svein Harberg does not understand this with the obligation to explain. This may be the case, but it was clear from the consultation among organisations with experience in the field that it is a very useful and important tool – management and trust leaders can sit down together. It's not like it's just an auditor who puts in a small footnote, it's actually an opportunity to go in and look at what the situation is at work, and if it's not satisfactory, you can see what you can do together. This is, of course, the Norwegian model of working life, in which companies are developed together for the common good. It has helped and helped us to have a working life that works very well today. After all, when a stripper removes the obligation to explain and only has to have an activity obligation, everyone understands that there is a game for the gallery. Having a number of activities without checking whether it actually works, whether it actually contributes to better equality work on each enterprise, will not work as the Right outlines it. Governments make a point of this with the ombudsman and renunciation competence. Here one might owe a little to the wording of our proposal, which can contribute to the ambiguity, but we want the reinforcement to take place within today's structure, and in particular we believe that we can signal from here that the rejuvenation competence can be added to the list. The issue here is that we believe that by breaking up the trade unions, by taking the approach proposed by the government, the enforcement system in the field of equality will be considerably weakened. I hear that Svein Harberg is trying to smooth over this with that it always resolves. No, we fear – and there are several parties in this room who see the challenges of breaking up existing professional environments – that at least there will be no strengthening of gender equality. That is why we want to signal that we are going to vote subsidiaryly for the Left's proposal, and we hope that, if our proposal falls, it will be the majority in this Chamber for what the Left has promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2736	If that were the case that we just maintained the Equality Ombudsman and the Equality Department as today, there would probably not have been so many fundamental objections to it. The challenge is that when we dealt with the gender equality report, we were at the same time very concerned that we had to have stronger instruments, which needed stronger instruments to overcome the gender equality challenge, which we, among others, are. sees in the labour market. I believe that, for example: The Left's proposal to give equality-based authority to impose upsizing on matters of working life and simple-case compensation is problematic if you do not make a clear distinction. Because it's not all right to adopt something where you're sitting on both sides of the table. In order to preserve the legitimacy of the Ombudsman's driving role and the absolutely necessary trust of the Ombudsman, I believe it is in principle right to have this distinction. That is why we support the government in this – provided that the 2018 budget clearly states that the driving role should not be harmful because such a distinction should be made, rather the Ombudsman should be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2741	A small comment and an explanation of vote: the Council of State said that she wanted more men into the health and care sector, and that it was right to do so. I agree, but one must take care of the women one has. A matter that has not been mentioned here is this with the rights of pregnant women. It has been mentioned, but there is a bad thing in the health care system now. Pregnancy no longer receives the right I had when I worked in the health care system and was pregnant. Then we were entitled to a watch exemption in the last trimester. We talk about that we have come further – no, in some areas we go in reverse. I don't have a good feeling that the young people who enter the medical profession have to be able to work under the regime that is today. So to the committee leader, who said we didn't just have to talk about what the state should do, and what the companies have to do. I agree with that, but of course we have to talk about it, because that's where we can do something. We can't decide what people are going to talk about in their home, but we can do something about what the state is doing in their workplaces. When my girls come home and tell me that when they study for an engineer, they have the prospect that they'll spend $100,000 less than the boys who go to the same study, because that shows the statistics, what do they tell? We have to fight to be able to do something about this, and then we have to do something about what we're talking about each other about. But there is a political responsibility in the field of equality. So to the explanation of vote: we are going to do as the Labour Party and vote subsidiaryly for proposal No. 4, from the Left, in case No. 5 – subsidiary to our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2750	The representative Svein Harberg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2755	First of all, my concern that we might not reach the individual was not criticism of the other parties, it was just a general concern. I'm used to being declared as the one who doesn't understand anything by the representative of Arild Grande, but I understand at least one thing, and that is that if it's the obligation to make a report that's necessary for a board of directors and trustees to work on equality and action for it in the business, one has a far greater challenge than the obligation to make a statement. It must be obvious that the trustees and the management of a business work with it, regardless of the reporting obligation. It might reinforce what I'm saying that it's the individuals who are in the positions, we have to work with – don't push it through in such a way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2763	I have been familiar for quite many years with the desire to make a collective law. There are some arguments for it, but there are very good and strong arguments against doing so. I'm going to bring up something that I've heard about here today. I make a reservation that I have managed to keep track of everything. This applies to the anti-discrimination law against people with disabilities and the Accessibility Act. It was adopted a few years ago. It's a very neglected area of society. SV has also promoted a proposal for a universal design and organisation document, which unfortunately did not receive a majority on most points, which is absolutely necessary. One of the reasons why we also think that this should not be combined is that this is a legal basis that is quite new. It has not sat down, and it is different from the violent structural grounds of discrimination which are particularly relevant for gender equality, and also some other grounds. This is about accessibility, and it is about shifting equality and discrimination into social and welfare policy. There has been a strong voice against this, as it has been necessary to recognise this as real discrimination and a lack of equality. That is why we believe that this law should be retained longer, so that this can take place, including with competence in this area, throughout the administration and in the apparatus to deal with gender equality and discrimination. I feel very uncomfortable that you now put this into a common law. I don't fear so much that gender equality work is disappearing, because there we have strong organisations and will probably know how to stand for it, but I fear for the job done to have equality for people with disabilities in society, and non-discrimination rules that actually work. This group is exposed to everything from lack of availability to quite serious hate crime, and the lack of availability in society that none of us sitting here, one second would find us in. That is one of the main reasons why I and SV are voting against this law today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2776	To the representative of Toppe, who deals with the issue of pregnancy discrimination – I fully agree with that. What is the nature of today's legislation is too low a protection against discrimination in the workplace for those who are pregnant. When we know that this is where they are most discriminated against, it has been important for the government to clarify this in the law. With regard to the previous period, I would say that the anti-discrimination protection adopted at that time was almost a deterioration compared to the Gender Equality Act of 1978. We want a clearer and stricter protection against discrimination against pregnancy in our own legislation, and the protection that is now being adopted will therefore be reflected more clearly in the law than in today's equality law and in the equality law of 1978. We also propose to clarify in the law that the lack of organisation for pregnant workers is discrimination. Today’s decision will provide a clearer protection. The representative Haukeland Liadal brought it up with the Ombudsman. Ever since the Ombudsman’s creation in 2006, the dual role has been debated and problematised. It is a problem when an agent is to be both a law enforcement officer and a perpetrator. Then you get into a conflict and you don't get the drive done properly. Therefore, it has been important for the government to have a clear representative and a strengthened mention that can deal with matters more quickly, and not least now to get an upliftment in place. I am very clear on what the Christian People's Party refers to, that the proposed changes should not be at the expense of either the quality of the professional environments or the implementation capacity of the two separate bodies. The proposal does not imply a weakening of the Ombudsman, as the Ombudsman is also slightly reduced because some tasks are being separated. I can assure the Christian People's Party that we will closely follow the economy and the environments of competence during this reorganisation, and come back to the Storting in an appropriate way if necessary when we follow this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2787	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2803	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2812	Today, we are dealing with a matter that is about giving children born in November the right to babysitting from the month when the child reaches the age of one year. This is a budgetary outlay that we in the Christian People's Party are very pleased that we have joined with the three bourgeois parties – that we are now moving the date limit for another month, we are clear through most of the budgetary negotiations in this period. In addition, the Ministry would like to provide a basis for a new regulation on pedagogical staffing and dispensation. And thirdly, the ministry wants to update the provision on state supervision, so that the county gets permission to oversee the municipal obligations of the Children's Home Office Act. The Committee would stress the importance of the Ministry's follow-up to the objective of establishing a statutory standard of manpower, since the standard of manpower also has a significant impact on the quality of kindergarten and on the ability of staff to provide care for individual children. Several hearing bodies have expressed their views on this proposition, and many are in favour of providing a basis and regulation for bringing together the pedagogical staffing rule in the kindergarten, and an update of Section 9, which, in turn, allows the county council to supervise the municipal duties. The fact that several hearing bodies have also been involved is that it is appropriate to introduce the rules on continuous childcare services. To that end, the Ministry will make an assessment in 2019 of the functioning of the changes in the rights of kindergartens and the need for any extensions. With regard to the economic and administrative consequences, in particular with a view to the non-payment of parental benefits in the period from August to November for the places held for children born in November, the Ministry considers that the municipalities are indirectly financed also for the loss of parental benefit in these months. The Committee is also very pleased that the Ministry does not wish to give municipalities the opportunity to start up. This is one of the things that you've been anxious about being a consequence, by constantly seeing the need to fill up all available nursery facilities. You have to live with the fact that there will be some places that have to be available, so that even children born in November will have the opportunity to have kindergarten at the age of one year. This is followed up by the Ministry, so that parents are not forced to start their children’s day-care centre before it is appropriate. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party calls for the ministry to be more active in its response to the hearing bodies regarding the lack of capacity to receive children under one year of age in a proper manner. We also note what has been written by the Department, that the parents and kindergartens themselves must decide when it is appropriate and proper for the children to start in kindergarten. Here the Christian People's Party will refer to the hearing opinions of the Educational Association and the Educational Environment Centre, which address challenges in terms of the physical environment in the kindergarten, which is not well organised for infants, and the concern that parents of nine-month-old babies will experience increased pressure to return to work and potential negative consequences for infants. I hope that the Council of State itself will address this, because we will stress the importance of taking into account the best interests of children in the preparation of this proposal, especially when it comes to infants under one year of age, and refer to the fact that parents and kindergarten themselves have to decide when it is right that infants start in kindergarten. Nor does it take into account that parents may feel pressured to take up free space before they want it. This is a joy in the beginning, but we just have to make sure that it does not have such unintended consequences. I hope the Council of State will come up with a little information on how to ensure that the municipalities do not now have the possibility of forced start-up. I'm glad this is coming into place. I know that there are a lot of kids who are going to enjoy that we are now moving this date limit. But finally, I just want to say that the goal is to have a system that doesn't depend on when you're born in the year, but that you get kindergarten at the age of one.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2837	In 2009, the government of Stoltenberg II introduced a statutory entitlement to kindergarten, and in the period 2005–2012 about 67,000 new kindergartens were established in Norway. It is quite natural that the child hail lift that was then carried out has been followed up with the gradual extension of the rights in line with the decision of the Storting, although it could clearly have happened faster. The Workers' Party has proposed, annual, increased appropriations for the establishment of multiple kindergartens, in line with increased needs and extended rights. We want to gradually extend the right to kindergarten, so that all kids are offered from the month they are one year old, and we believe that such an extension should take place faster than the government is now proposing. This is why we proposed to the government last year, at the state budget, to propose a change to the Children's Court Act, so that children who reach one year's age by the end of December of the year in which they are applied for children's gardening are in the right place. We also followed up with money in our alternative state budget, 200 million. kr, which would have enabled the introduction of such a right, thereby increasing the rate of extension of the right to kindergarten. That is why we are proposing it today. And not enough that we suggested a faster escalation last year, and we do that today – we also suggested it in 2013, in the government of Stoltenberg’s last state budget proposal. During the previous ageing period, we were still criticized for not establishing a continuous recording system. Well, as I said, we built at the base of 67,000 kindergartens, we got the right to kindergarten, and we were ready to start expanding. There was no way, however, how much better it would be just the Right Party and the Advance Party came into government, and the promise of continuous admission was resolved. Now there are no more possibilities within this ageing period to do so, and we have the fasitivity: The promise was continuous admission, but all at first opportunity, the state budget for 2014, this government's first babysitting scheme was to cut out 7 000 children's playgrounds. In the last draft budget of the government of Stoltenberg, there was money for 2,900 new kindergartens, the number necessary to extend the right until and including October from 2014. That would not be the case with the current bulk of the population, and so this expansion only came into place last year – two lost years in the ongoing recording work. We could have had October in place in 2014, extended to November 2015 and followed up with December, as we proposed last year. We're not there now. That's too bad. But we're proposing it again, because we want more, we want more. We'll gradually extend the right to babysitting, so that everyone gets an offer from the month they're about one year old. We will begin now, by expanding – even the December children. The case rapporteur was in the comment that we in the Workers' Party agree with the Christian People's Party. It's an important reminder. There are, as the rapporteur was concerned, several hearings that have said something about this in the hearing, the danger of increasing pressure on early start-up for them for less than a year. The ministry has commented on this in its proposal, but we are asking here that the department respond more clearly. For those who want to start up before they are one year old when they have room, and believe it is right for their family, it is of course good, but it cannot be an unintended consequence of this amendment that more people feel pressured to early start up. Then I believe that there is also reason to ask questions about the government's assumptions that this change is well covered within the existing municipalities. When the municipalities now have to have a place available from August, and perhaps until November, it costs more money for the municipalities. I think you will find few rapporteurs and advisers who would think it is entirely unproblematic to take this within the framework. Extending rights costs money. It's worth it, of course, but it costs, and that's why it's also important for us in our alternative state budgets to actually have money in place for the extensions we've proposed in recent years. I leave the Workers' Party's proposal from the minority in the committee position, and then I take up the submitted proposal to replace it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2854	The representative Lasse Juliusen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2859	The party supports the legal proposition that will give birth to children in November, right to kindergarten from the month when the child reaches the age of one year. We also support the other proposals on the regulation on pedagogical staffing and dispensation and up-to-date decisions on state supervision, so that the State has the right to supervise the municipal obligations under the Kindergarten Act. The majority of the listening statements are positive. It should be of course, few can be in principle opposed to giving children born late in the fall the same right as children born earlier in the year, to a childcare facility when the child reaches the age of one year. At the same time, there are some objections, including: Ideally, there should be a rule on continuous childcare admissions, that the financial and administrative consequences of this proposal must be compensated, that rules must prevent private kindergartens from taking children without a right to space in front of children who have a right to space, and the challenges in kindergartens if they have to accept several children under one year of age in the autumn. According to the government, continuous childcare admissions should be assessed in 2019, in order to evaluate the functioning of these changes in the right to children's garden space. The central party believes, like the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party, that the government should have put itself in a more active position to those hearing bodies that have feedback about the lack of capacity to receive children under one year of age in a defensive way. I think it's too easy to show that parents and kindergartens themselves have to decide when it's appropriate and defensive that children start in kindergarten. Of course, it is the choice of parents when the child is going to start in the nursery, but it is a public responsibility to ensure that the quality of the provision we are going to give to families with children is as good as any place that it is perfectly safe and fully defenceable to send children who are one year old – or perhaps younger children – in these kindergartens. Of course, when we know that kindergartens get more younger children to care for, we also need to make an assessment of what this will require of staffing, of local and of organisation. It's a political responsibility that governments and corporations can't jump from. The Education Association and the Educational Environment Centre discuss the challenges related to, inter alia: the physical environment in kindergarten, that it is not well organised for infants. There is also a concern that parents of nine-month-old babies will be able to experience a pressure to return to work and potential negative effects on infants. On 26 March the Official Journal of the European Communities referred to this challenge in particular. It was found that there are many who are warning of the change that is being proposed and adopted today. It could have the unfortunate consequence that eight-to-nine-month-old babies started in kindergarten from August, but it was not really supposed to. The challenge is that kindergartens either have to leave places standing empty and lose money, or offer parents a place after the summer vacation. In this article, researchers say that one thinks that early childhood start can be particularly damaging to children's relationship with father, who often have leave in this recent period. Fathers also experience a great pressure to get back to work quickly. When there is then a free nursery and waiting for the youngest, this pressure can be felt as larger. In this article, Hafstad Thorsen of the Workers' Party was also critical of the consequences of the new bill and calls for an overarching discussion about the changes that could bring more younger children into the kindergarten. But the Center Party supports the bill. A little bit of a reason why we don't go into the Labour Party's proposal, which will take two months at once, is that we think we should use the money to strengthen the quality of supply, and especially now when we also give birth in November, right to kindergarten. So we're supporting the government's proposition and we're not voting for the Workers' Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2874	SV is for us to extend the right to children's playground also for those born in November and December. The problem with the government's arrangements is that it is not financed. We have entered this into our local economy with the calculations we have received from the Ministry of Finance in respect of the 2017 budget, which shows that such a measure, escalating against two admissions, costs 385 million. kr. It is a little difficult to see that some of the other parties in Stortinget have contributed this to their local economy. That's what SV has done. The government believes that this is funded within the municipality, but it is impossible to join. This is done at the same time as the grant to kindergarten teachers is included in the framework, before the law has been amended to ensure the quality and competence of employees. This is not good. All my adult life I've been fighting for kindergartens. We have to make sure that kindergartens have a high quality, because they fit the most important thing we have here in the world. Its younger children are, the more important it is that there is enough proper competence and that they have time for the care needed for these children and also to help them into the game when they are young. It's possible. I have worked in kindergarten for 17 years and know that this is possible, but at that time we were actually more employees per child than you are today. So SV believes that these two things are necessary, both that you actually finance this for the municipalities, and that you do not include the grant until you have put in place the law that ensures that the municipalities have the competence to do so. SV will support the revised proposal of the Workers' Party today, and we will do so with a good conscience, because we have a municipal arrangement and a scheme for the kindergartens that both finance this and ensure that the competence is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2885	The proposal under consideration today is to give children born in November the right to kindergarten from the month when the child reaches the age of one year, and the proposal to provide the Ministry of Knowledge with legal support for the provision of new regulations on pedagogical staffing and dispensation, as well as an up-to-date provision on state supervision, allowing the State to supervise the municipal obligations under Chapter V of the Children’s Gardens Act. I just have to add some comments to what has been said in the hall. It is true that this is a principle of how to finance municipalities in Norway. One rule of thumb is that when the municipalities get new tasks, they also have to be financed, i.e. paid, compensated for it. It is then that all departments have meetings with the KS to check that they agree that the municipalities are funded for the task being imposed – if KS does not tend to protest, it is not prohibited for the government to do so, but then KS tends to protest – and we have done so in this case as well. So it's not like the government just says that this is funded, or says that this has to be done by the municipalities without it being funded. This has been funded, both through funds provided in the transition to framework funding and allocated funds for 2015-2016. That was that part of the thing. And then it's a very relevant issue: if this leads to very small children being sent to kindergarten, and especially if it leads to a pressure that very small children are sent to kindergarten, then it's a problem. Let me just remind you that there is not a problem with this proposal, but in particular it is made clear here because these children will be even younger when August comes, but also for September and October children this is a problem issue. To that there are three things to say. First, it is the parents who alone decide when the children are going to kindergarten. Secondly, we are also very clear from the department that the municipalities are also funded to possibly keep these places open until one comes and will have these places. The problem is, if necessary, the parental payment, but this is also compensated for by the municipalities. That is, the municipalities cannot – I stress it – demand that a November child take his or her nursery place in August or lose the place. Thirdly, in a very, very short time, the proposal for a standard of living in the kindergarten is coming. It has taken a little longer than I had expected, but that's because the proposal is getting even better than what we initially expected, because the government parties – not least the Christian People's Party that is pushing, and the Left too – have also allowed more money for more kindergarten teachers, so that the teaching norm is actually raised to 43–44 pst. This will also be suggested in what is being sent out. At the end of the day: no one has affected the legal institution to lay down a new regulation on pedagogical manning and dispensation. This is simply a cleanup that will make it easier for the ministry to do so. Changes to the State oversight provision came into force on 1 August 2016, and this would simply be an update, which seems to be without problems either.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2900	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2905	The working party has, to a large extent, been comfortable with the way in which children’s rights are extended: to take it month by month. But the then representatives of the Right and the Advance Party, the present state councils, went hard before the previous elections: ‘When we have come so far in this guardian country that families have to plan the time for births in order to have kindergarten, it goes without saying that it is time to introduce a family reform that restores power to families.’ Another quote: ‘The government has failed all children born after 1 September. The right-hand objective is a flexible, continuous recording system so that all 1-year-olds can fit.’ Then I just wonder what it is that makes the date system that was referred to in 2012 and 2013 as a model state and a betrayal, now is the government's preferred way of organizing kindergarten admissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2921	It is quite simply that this government is creating solutions in Stortinget, which are for the benefit of families with children, and which makes it easier to stop having too many people who have to take time off from work, that you have to bring in grandparents – Stortinget knows the issues. If you remember, the government and I first left money to the municipalities to build more kindergartens – just to give them more flexibility. But then through the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we agreed that this is the way we do it. It is therefore Norwegian children's parents from before that have received September and October, and now also comes November.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2928	That's good, that's good. It's in line with what we've always meant, proposed and invested in our alternative state budgets. With the statements I referred to, and what the Council of State said now, one could expect an offensive kindergarten policy for several places. The only guarantee is that increased rights require more nursery places, not fewer. In eight years we got between 60,000 and 70,000 new babysitting facilities, while the current government spent eight weeks cutting 7,000 places in its first autumn, giving priority to cash support over kindergartens. There are fewer children in kindergarten this year than last year, and the proposed extension is assumed to be covered within the municipal framework without the introduction of new funds. Then I'm still wondering, cf. what the right now is going to choose: is this what is enabling municipalities to make more flexible recordings?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2937	The very specific question I answered in the previous round. But here there were so many premises, many of which are inaccurate or at least omit important information. As the representative is well aware, kindergarten development was a result of the nursery arrangement. Among the leading parties to the kindergarten agreement were: The party of progress, which is now in government. Right then put in government and was probably not exactly leading, but came along well afterwards. With regard to the story that this government cuts 7 000 spaces, I do not agree with that. There'll be more kindergartens. Money has also been given to considerably more places with this government and by this majority. Finally, there is a paradox that I do not know if the Workers' Party has taken over. It is not only that cutting the cash support with a pencil stroke will increase the child's poverty, which it will unmistakably, but also that cutting the cash support will increase the need for more nursery places. It is striking that a party that says that they flirt with the Christian People's Party, on every occasion, talks down one of the most important victories of the Christian People's Party, namely the cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2946	I have a question that concerns what might be a consequence of the proposal, namely that it is going to get younger children into kindergarten. I notice that several researchers are having problems with this. One thing is if it's favorable, another thing is if the kindergartens are actually prepared for it. Now we can't know for sure if that happens, but it's expressed a concern, and this also has to do with the quality and security of children and families. So my question applies if the Council of State will follow along on this. Is he concerned, does he see the objections, and what does the government actually do to follow up on this in a defensive way?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2953	I'm worried about it if there's a pressure. It is simply because I have never thought – and this government has never meant, and my party has never meant – that it is a goal that children should go to kindergarten as soon as possible. We believe that it is good that parents have some time to be at home with the children. So it's healthy for kids to be in kindergarten, and one year is the time I and most other parents think is the right time to start. Some people also pull it out a little bit longer, and that's fine. That's three major things. The new framework plan for kindergarten reinforces the attention of just the smallest children. It's important. Manning standards are important — and they are now being consulted in a very, very short time – and so is an enhanced standard of education. But I think we also have to be so honest and say that this is probably a dilemma we'll meet anyway. Obviously it will be a little less if you manage to have two recordings a year, but even with a continuous recording, there will be a chance that you will want to send your children to kindergarten more quickly. It's kind of hard to do something about politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2960	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2967	First of all, I have to say that this is a good thing. We all have to make that clear. Here are many children and many families who get the pleasure of moving the date limit by one month. That is, children born in November are given the opportunity to have a safe and good and nice kindergarten at the age of one year. Is this funded? That's the question that's most often asked. This was also the issue when we discussed or adopted the budget for 2016. Also then it was that there came a little different answers from the department, it was said, at least. But I have to assume that the answers given by the department – that this is indirectly funded already – are correct. Because when the concern has been that this may lead to some being pressured to start in kindergarten before what you want, i.e. that babies are sent to kindergarten – and this is by reference to what the council said – I wonder how municipalities or kindergartens can afford to sit with free kindergarten facilities, which they must have until November, if this is not funded. I assume that the information contained in the proposition is correct – that this is funded – and then we get to enjoy it. I have a question for the Workers' Party, because they are promoting a proposal in the Chamber where you want to take two months in a Jaf. This is a matter that falls within the budget for 2017, so I expect the Workers' Party to have proposed or have an opportunity to finance these two months. Or is it that the Labour Party believes that this is also indirectly funded in the budget for 2017 adopted by this Biggest? Because there are no parallel budgets from which you can pick up money. It must then be within the budget that the Storting finally decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2976	First of all, I have no reason to doubt the correctness of what is in the ministry's description of funding. It is, as it is referred to, an indirect funding that lies there. But when I'm not here as an alternate, I live in the municipal everyday life, and I know what it's like with things in the framework. It is not that because something is indirectly financed in 2015, they have been in an account unused until today. They are used to drive kindergartens and all the other tasks the municipalities also have. It is therefore not automatic in that indirect financing from 2015 means that that money is ready to be traded today. It is a concern which I referred to in my first speech, and which I believe has more rapporteurs and advisers around. With regard to the financing of what we are now proposing, it is in line with what we presented in our alternative state budget for 2017. The approach to the revised national budget has not yet been adopted. We believe that through our alternative state budgets, both last year and in previous years, we have money to invest in this. We're willing to drop that money, and as I said, I'm referring to the money we've invested in both our alternative state budgets and otherwise, i.e. 200 million. kr, which we believe will finance extension to December.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2983	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e2999	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e3008	In this case, the Government proposes amendments to the Shipowners' Act concerning the guarantee obligation of shipowners. The proposal implements adopted amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention, MLC, which entered into force earlier this year. The amendments to the Convention entail new requirements for financial security for abandoned seafarers and financial security in the event of death or long-term disability. The changes in MLC consist, inter alia, of: requirements for financial security for seafarers who have been abandoned. According to MLC, a seafarer is deemed to have left when the shipping company fails to cover the seafarer's travel expenses in breach of the Convention or the contract of employment, has left the seafarer without necessary maintenance and support or otherwise unilaterally disrupted the link with the seafarer, including by failing to pay the agreed salary for at least two months. A typical situation, as we often see outside the borders of the country, is that the ship is left in a port or anchor outside the port area while the seafarers have neither supplies nor, for example, supplies. oil to ensure electricity and on-board heat. The Committee supports the changes proposed by the Government and also agrees that this security should cover basic needs until the seafarers have returned home, with a minimum of four months' salary and other foreseeable costs, including, of course, return costs. After MLC, the collateral may, for example: be in the form of an insurance or guarantee scheme ensuring that sufficient resources are available to provide assistance to abandoned seafarers promptly. The government has received very broad and positive support for the proposals in the consultation process, and the Committee supports the availability of on-board documentation to demonstrate that such security has been provided. Seafarers, of course, should also be able to address payment claims directly to the security provider. These changes do not entail an extension of the company's material obligations to the seafarers, but involve, inter alia, the following: the establishment of a financial security system to ensure payment of outstanding remuneration requirements for all seafarers covered by MLC. The financial security requirement for Abandoned Seafarers shall be included in the certificate and subject to control both by the flag State and in the context of port State control. There is a certain adjustment in the remarks in the committee position, where it is a majority and a minority. The majority consists of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left Party, while the minority consists of the red-green parties. This in any case has no consequence on the content of the case itself, for it is a unanimous committee recommending the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e3021	It is correct, as the case-rapporteur said, that there is unanimous agreement on the amendment of the law. That is a necessary law. What is in the title of the amendment to the law is ‘the company’s guarantee obligation’. The Committee’s recommendation is that ‘guarantee be provided for specific benefits not covered by the remuneration guarantee scheme’. Where there are different observations, it is essential that the observations are unambiguous in the case of subsequent disputes as to how any dispute should be dealt with. Unfortunately, there has become a culture here in Stortinget because many remarks are abstract and not concrete. They're abstract in such a way that it's not possible to hold them in your hand. They're not measurable. It is a culture that involves a significant bureaucracy because there are different assessments of how it is understood. What we have addressed here from the red-green side is the concept of an economic security system, which is mentioned in the comment from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. What is an economic security system? I have not understood and am unable to understand what is the material content of an economic security system. I do not understand that this term is necessary to conceal the matter. In the majority’s comments, the ‘economic security system’ is as follows: the proposition.’;» There was a result of discussions in the committee that it was like that. But the note from the red-green side says that “financial guarantee/insurance is established” – we are therefore concrete. I am very surprised that it could not have been agreed that what is in both the title and the legal text, namely ‘guarantee’, could be in the notes. It is not necessary to introduce concepts that are so abstract, so empty of content, because it only deludes the further consideration of the bill because there may be uncertainties and conflicts associated with this. In conclusion, I would just like to ask the Council of State to clarify in its statement whether she will not support the opposition’s observation that ‘financial guarantee and insurance should be established according to. the proposal in the proposal.’;» Because that's the concrete content. We have understood what we are talking about here – an extension of the company's responsibility. There are some people who are going to pay for the situation that someone here is trying to correct, and they have to be responsible on the shipowner's side. They must lodge a guarantee or insurance in advance, so that those who may have suffered today are covered by their loss. That is the positive thing about the proposal – a proposal and a legislative amendment that everyone supports in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e3034	I'll try to make this card. The rapporteur has adequately explained the background and content of this legislative proposal. This is simply about the fact that regulatory changes have to be made. Then, through the regulatory work – the regulations have been at the hearing – we have discovered that there is a hole in our home law. With regard to the question put by the representative Lundtigen, the answer to that question is yes and no. It is not that Norwegian seafarers' rights are extended. They have had these rights. However, documentation on board ships is required, and a faster way is to obtain the rights you have by being able to impose requirements directly on the safety provider. This is an improvement in the way you can recover your claim, from the seafarer's point of view. In concrete terms, the room is empty, where we have not had a permit, workers covered by Norwegian social security schemes and a pay guarantee scheme. Yes, we use the word «guarantee» because a guarantee has to be provided. Now we can have contributed to this confusion because we also use the word ‘security’ in the billing proposition. It does not extend the material rights under Norwegian law, but it is given a faster way to cover their rights. That's the hole we're now trying to close.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e3043	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e3048	I thank you for your answer. One will now have a faster way to achieve its rights — one will also recognise that there will be a legal clarification, so that the necessary security is provided. That is the way we have understood it in the committee – at least when a guarantee is made, if any, an insurance, and it is documented and is evidenced for those who are affected by it, you know your right. The companies know their duty, and therefore there is nothing to dispute about. Therefore, the core of this guarantee and insurance is. It's not an economic security system, which is an abstract concept. The point here is that we have to stop these abstract concepts and have it concretely, because then one gets much simpler, one gets less bureaucracy, and we get rid of the doubts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e3053	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e3069	No one has asked for the floor. The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 10 and 11 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e3098	No one has asked for the floor. Case No. 12–28 are the second time legal proceedings. The President will propose that these matters be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e3296	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 12-28.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e3314	A total of 15 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Helga Pedersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Helga Pedersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Helga Pedersen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 6-9, by Heidi Greni, on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 10, from André N. Skelstad on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left Party proposal No 11, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 12–15, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President makes it clear that in this case the recommendation for the setting falls to II, when this was voted over on Thursday. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12–15, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to increase the revenue of the municipal sector by between 4.8 and 5.8 billion in the draft government budget for 2018. SEK in addition to the government’s proposal in the Municipal Proposition 2018.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to contribute financially to the realisation of the Barna’s choice, under the auspices of the Red Child.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to strengthen the funding of cultural schools in the 2018 budget and to propose how a maximum price regime can be implemented.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government’s request for 2018 draft State budget increases the co-financing of the special resource-intensive services scheme by the State and proposes a separate scheme to apply to persons over 67 years of age.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e3375	There is a vote on proposal No. 11th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government in the draft government budget for 2018 to increase the municipal sector’s revenue in the range of 3 to 4 billion. kronor in addition to the government's proposal, the Municipal Proposition 2018, with the following breakdown: 2 – 2.5 billion. crowns for increased framework financing of municipalities. In the income system for municipalities, the basic grant is reintroduced at the 2016 level without any graduation. 1 to 1.5 billion crowns of a maintenance programme for the county roads.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e3397	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the extension and extension of the 16-year-old voting procedure and the inclusion of the largest cities in the pilot scheme.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e3414	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6-9 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government of the State budget for 2018 to investigate and provide a model of how exceptional state resources can be deployed during periods of increasing unemployment in order to reduce maintenance set-aside in the municipal sector.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive plan for the use of common ICT solutions across the public sector, across agencies and levels of government.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a 10-year national maintenance programme for the county roads in 2018 in proposals for the state budget.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the income system of the county municipalities to be reviewed and come back with proposals to ensure that compensation for long distances and low population density is increased.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e3448	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size of the government’s government budget for 2018 increases the income of the municipal sector by between 2 and 3 billion. SEK in addition to the government’s proposal in the Municipal Proposition 2018.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e3464	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish a co-financing scheme for profitable IT projects in the municipalities according to the model of the already established scheme in the country.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e3481	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government requests the increase of SEK 300 as the threshold for entering the income guarantee scheme.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assume that grants resulting from the municipal reform will continue to be granted over its own item and that the continuing schemes are non-recurring, reform aid and disaggregation grants.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to remove the rule that county councils must have expenditures in total exceeding NOK 250 per capita in order to compensate for part of the costs incurred in the event of flooding.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e3534	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from André N. Skelstad on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2-6, by André N. Skelstad on behalf of the Left There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Two to six from the left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is calling for action to be brought before the Stortinget with proposals that restrict State detail regulation to a greater extent by limiting the State’s ability to review municipal decisions and to make less use of the designation of state transfers to the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Stortingen Government to take action with proposals that give municipalities greater freedom to decide for themselves the time for the gift and sale of alcoholic goods.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a pilot project in which selected municipalities are given the opportunity to decide for themselves whether kiosks and service stations are to be granted a sales authorisation for alcoholic beverages in Group 1 without prejudice to the alcohol regulation § 3-4.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the possibility to grant municipalities the freedom to allow double registration, identified as a primary residence and secondary residence respectively.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Stortinget to take action with proposals that give municipalities greater freedom to regulate local fish farming.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e3581	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the Government to promote the cause of the Storting with proposals that allow municipalities to increase their own income by, inter alia, being able to determine property taxes themselves and the municipal taxpayer.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e4503	The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e4518	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e4532	The legislative decision will be set up for second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget Furthermore, the following were set: B. The government is asked to evaluate the impact of new rules on temporary employment in the country after two years of work. The results shall be discussed with the main groupings of the country and submitted to the Storting in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e4543	The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e4666	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e4677	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e4686	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Hege Haukeland Liadal on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No 3, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Center Party the proposals No 4–6, from Sveinung Rotevatern on behalf of Left There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to strengthen the role of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and to maintain the current tasks and structure, and to empower the LDO to impose upliftment on matters of employment and to compensate in simple cases.’ [[LDO]] The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e4711	The Labour Party has also announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e4716	Then the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e4728	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to maintain the current structure and location of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, to give it the power to impose sanctions on matters relating to employment and to compensation in simple cases, and to strengthen the Ombudsman’s budget in the State budget for 2018.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e4743	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to maintain the current division of tasks between the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the Equality and Discrimination Department, and to give equality and discrimination-based powers to be able to impose upsizing in labour matters and to compensate in simple cases.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Workers' Party and the Centre have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e4755	SV shall also vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e4760	Then the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e4773	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to determine what the creation and possible transfer of new names will require of resources, provided that both names and representatives are to be maintained as a strong professional environment, and then strengthen the Ombudsman’s budget for 2018 according to the calculations’. The Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e4790	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the left. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals for free legal assistance with needs test in the field of equality and discrimination.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to issue a low-threshold offer for the enforcement of the prohibition of sexual harassment.’ The Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e5171	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e5183	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e5198	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e5208	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 2–5, from Hege Haukeland Liadal on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Two and three. Proposal No. 2 sounds: "The government is asking the government to implement the proposed provisions on the universal design of ICT, equal opportunities and non-discriminatory teaching materials, the prohibition of age discrimination, positive special treatment for men and enhanced protection against discrimination for pregnant women in the specific laws in force". Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to maintain the obligation of activity and presentation and to strengthen it by following the recommendations of the Skjeie Committee for changes, and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with a case to this effect’. The centre party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e6040	It shall be added to all paragraphs except for the first paragraph of Section 1 and the first paragraph of Section 2. Behind the setting are the Right and Advance parts. The left has indicated support for the configuration. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e6059	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Section 1 of the Equality and Discrimination Act shall be replaced by the following: The purpose of the Act is to promote equality and to prevent discrimination on grounds of sex, pregnancy, maternity or adoption leave, care tasks, ethnicity, religion, outlook on life, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, age and other material circumstances of a person.» The Right, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e6076	With the previous vote, the recommendation to the first paragraph of Section 1 lapses. Alternatively, between the Committee's setting up Section 2, first paragraph, and proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Section 2 of the Equality and Discrimination Act shall be replaced by the following: The law applies in all areas of society.’ Behind the setting are the Right and Advance parts. The Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e6099	It has to be the opposite. Let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e6111	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e6125	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e6134	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 2, from Lasse Juliussen on behalf of the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 64 in the case of kindergartens, the second paragraph of Section 12a shall be replaced by the following: Children who reach the age of one year in September, October, November or December of the year in which they are applied for are entitled, upon application, to sit in kindergarten before the end of the month in which the child reaches the age of one year in accordance with this Act.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be suspended in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 12a. The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e6210	Behind the setting are the Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left. The centre party has announced support for the setting. The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e6225	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e6235	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e6245	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e6291	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e6301	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e6370	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e6381	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e6498	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e6508	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e6517	Case No. 12–28 are the second time legal proceedings and concern legislative acts 99 to 114. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-12.ana.ud359e6533	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
