ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e57	The representative Eirik Sivertsen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative of Ingrid Heggø from 13 December until further notice by the Group of the Left on sick leave of the representative, Ketil Kjeseth, with effect from 13 December and until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first representative of Sogn and Fjordane County, Hilmar Höl, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget, due to disease. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Uppland State: Indigenous Thon Hagaseth For Sogn and Fjordane County: Helge Robert Midtbø
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e107	Helge Robert Midtbø is present and will take the seat. The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e114	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of Mr Nävra, Mr Knutson Barstad, Mr Aukrust, Mr Grung, Mr Per Espen Stoknes and myself on the protection of the Baltic Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e119	The representative, Petter Eide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e124	On behalf of the undersigned, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to wind up the rental of foreign prisons and not in the future to rent foreign prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e129	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e134	On behalf of Petter Eide, Björn Moxnes and myself, I would like to make suggestions not to use the Dublin Agreement to return asylum seekers to Greece until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e139	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e145	I shall, on behalf of the representatives of the Grandfathers Geir Adelsten Iversen, Per Olaf Lundtägen and myself, put forward proposals to close the current decision-making forum for new methods and to ensure openness in drug pricing in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e150	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e168	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e184	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e200	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e216	The budgetary procedure for the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs may not be the most extensive, and it is even less extensive this year than it was last year, when the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs submitted proposals for appropriations to the Royal Court and the budget of the Grand Duchy. What we are submitting this year concerns the Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy for the administration, the Grand Duchy's Committee for the Information, Surveillance and Security Service and the National Audit Office. Those who have gone into those budgets thoroughly may have thought that there have been some percentage increases in some of the budgets. The Committee has examined it and found that the requested allocation need is a good document. It is therefore a pleasure, on behalf of the Committee, to be able to present a unanimous opinion on the framework area 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e221	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 5, 6 and 7 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e261	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a sequence change be made of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government and four lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e274	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its work on the 2018 budget. Now it is two years since the Paris Agreement was concluded in 2015 – an agreement that, as time goes by, turns out to be strong and working. The discussion has changed, it is no longer about reaching an agreement, it is about implementing the commitments undertaken by each country. We see that there is a mobilization, among both nations, local authorities, businesses, organisations and down to individuals, to reduce emissions. It's a pleasure that that's what dominates, not Donald Trump and the US notice of withdrawal from the agreement. On the contrary, there are still new initiatives, most recently a top-level meeting in Paris, where the World Bank, among other things, is taking place. notifies that they will not continue to invest in oil and gas. Our own oil fund has gone out of coal, and there are also discussions about whether parts of the fund are going out of oil and gas. So I mean there's a lot going on. The challenge is that although the agreement is good – as agreed – the commitments are not strong enough to limit global warming to 2 degrees, and at least not to reach 1.5 degrees. But in Norway too, we have increased efforts. Over the last ageing period, there is an increasing focus on reducing emissions at home. This must also be reinforced during this period, also in order to follow up the Paris Agreement with 2020 objectives and to follow up our own commitments, and we want to have a common objective and work towards achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement with the EU by 2030. For the Left, it is important that this budget be seen in the context of the four previous financial years. This is the fifth coherent budget in which we have had a civil majority behind the budgetary conciliation. Emissions in Norway have fallen slightly from 2013, albeit marginally, and this needs to be reinforced in the years to come. Nevertheless, we are doing things in Norway, especially in the transport sector, where no other country is really close. When the electric car sales are at 20 pst, and when we have a goal of just selling electric cars in 2025, it's an ambition that no one else has. Therefore, it is important in this budget that the tax exemption for electric cars be continued also for family cars and that we still have benefits for company cars. There's a bet on hydrogen, Enova is added to 100 million. kr extra, and we also have the decisions from last year on increased integration of advanced biofuels, which will have an impact in the years to come. There is also a continuous commitment to more environmentally friendly shipping. The Paris agreement and the reductions we need in oil and gas consumption will also affect the Norwegian petroleum sector when it may look like the investment will change in the years to come. Furthermore, it is important that we reduce emissions during production. I am therefore pleased that we have reached an agreement in the Committee on an increase of 15 million. kr to such an emission reduction. And we need to ensure that the work with CCS, Carbon Capture and Storage, continues. Here's a verbal decision. This has to be continued. We're going to have a bigger discussion in Stortinget to spring, but CCS is necessary to achieve the Paris Agreement's objectives on negative emissions at the end of this period. The other objectives are also crucial. It's good that we now have 3 billion. kr for the rainforest bet. The work on marine pollution is reinforced in this budget for five consecutive years. For five consecutive years, there is also an increase in classical nature protection, whether it be the protection of forests, water regulations, endangered species or threatened cultural landscapes. We've made some minor changes. You strengthen the archipelago service, the Villakssenteret and Norwegian natural heritage. At the end of the day, I am happy to have reached an agreement on the Association of Premise Memory, so that the Prime Minister can send his Christmas cards about Steinvikholmen without it causing a flurry of taste in his mouth. I'm dealing with the proposal that the Left is behind with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e306	The representative Ola Elvestuen has taken up the proposal that the Left is behind with the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e313	The government has been supported by the Left for four years now, and with the close cooperation and support provided by the Left, it seems to be this way for four new years. Then we're in 2021. In principle, we should have achieved one third of the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Will we be there in 2021? And how will the Left endorse the objectives of the Solvik-Olsen and Søviknes Governments?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e318	With regard to the 2020 targets, which we have to reinforce, I think we're completely at the edge of what you can do, that is. that we maintain the benefits of a zero-emission vehicle. We need to set up a distribution network both with filling stations and with high-speed chargers – we need to get up CO 2 funds, but it is harder to do this faster than what we are doing. Biofuel investment is crucial because it is where emissions in the transport sector can be reduced in the short term. Then it's essential that we get advanced biofuels up, that we boost the zero emissions. The problem is the palm oil discussion that is here, this phase must be made as short as possible. What largely determines whether emissions are rising or falling nationally is the activity in the petroleum sector. That is the decision that has been taken much earlier, which is now relevant. It's important that we electrify Johan Sverdrup, but that's where we'll bet 15 million on the civil side. kr for lower emissions in the petroleum sector, also be decisive in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e326	There has been broad agreement on achieving carbon capture and storage in industry as quickly as possible in order to achieve national climate targets. The achievement of full-scale carbon capture and storage is crucial not only for Norway but also the world to meet its climate targets in 2030 and 2050. Norway has been a leading country in its efforts in this area, and our efforts have created an enormous international interest. When the Left presented its alternative budget early in November, the Left was strongly critical of the government's proposed cut in carbon capture and storage, and suggested adding 310 million. kr. Does the Left believe that the budgetary agreement now leading to cuts sends the right signal to industry in view of the projects under way on Norcem, Yara and Klemetsrud?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e333	After having collapsed in Mongstad a few years ago, which was a misorganized project – it must be the responsibility of the previous government – we have started a good organization of the CCS projects under the direction of Gassnova, with the three projects we have, one on Klemetsrud and two on Grenland, where we look at cargo and storage. It is important that this be continued. In the talks and negotiations we have had, we are pleased that the verbal decision we have is continuing what we need to have in order for the projects to move forward – along with the funds that are being transferred to next year due to a minor consumption this year. I am sure that the projects will be continued until the Stortinget gets its case to spring, as we need to have a thorough discussion on how to proceed. However, there is no doubt from the Left that CCS is crucial to achieving the international climate goals, and Norway still has to be at the forefront.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e338	Monday this week the news came that microplastics were found in blueshell along the entire Norwegian coast. The findings show that the pollution that humans leave behind spreads over long distances. On 17 April 2015, the government authorised the use of Fördefjorden as a waste site for the mining industry, a permit against which the left was opposed, and which the batch has tried to stop at the latest in connection with the State budget through a landfill charge. The mining company Nordic Mining has not yet received an operating concession from the Ministry of Industry. I would like to ask the representative of Elvesuen whether he can confirm that the Left will use the forthcoming government negotiations to stop the attempt to use our fjords as a waste site for the mining industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e345	I am not going to say anything about the forthcoming government negotiations. But there is no doubt that the Left is – and has been – against using the Fördefjord as a landfill for mining waste. There are several instruments. One thing is the permits that are granted, but something else is to have a tax on take-off masses, which I believe we need to go into. I also believe it is important for Norway that we look more broadly at the legislation on mining, and that we need to make stricter demands in terms of waste recycling. In this way, we can also look at what is going on allowing landfills at sea, which we are one of the very few countries that still allow, and the only one that allows it on as shallow water as we do in Norway. So there's no doubt -- this is what we're going to keep going. We're also going to continue the fight against microplastics, which was the beginning of the question, although I'm not sure it has anything to do with waste dumping and the mining industry. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e352	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e358	The representative of Ola Elvestuen was involved in this by transport and from 2025 there is an ambition that only electric cars will be sold in Norway. I expect that there are emission-free cars that Elvesuen is looking for. The centre party believes that an important part of that sector is about business transport, and we have put in a proposal for a 1 billion CO 2 fund for business transport. kr, as a starting point for a good incentive scheme to distort the transport from fossil transport to fossil-free transport. I have previously seen the Left as agreeing with us. How will the Left now work to speed up such a business fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e366	The establishment of a CO 2 fund for the transport of food was one of the decisions of the budget conciliation last year, so it is going to be working on. I'm sure the Council of State can respond better than I do, but I think there's a work going on towards the industry to look at the device of such a fund. Our idea has always been that a fund has to be about taking the technology leaps, whether it's hydrogen and fuel cells or electrifying the heaviest transport. That's one side. The second is to see if it is possible to help the smaller actors to have greater ambitions and to make a change faster than they do today. But as far as the device is concerned, I understand that it may take some time, and that you need to have a discussion with the industry to look at just how to do this, and what size and dimension it should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e374	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e379	I would also like to start by thanking the Committee for its cooperation. What we are discussing today is related to our generation, perhaps, of the most important challenge. The climate crisis is here now, solutions exist, we are going to change, and Norway is in a very unique situation. We have built our fortunes on oil and gas, and oil and gas will be with us for many years to come. At the same time, we have a unique access to renewable energy at home, and we have a number of technological environments that can help transform demand into new forms of energy, and that can also contribute to the green shift in other ways. It's important that we are aware that we are going to, can and must go all the way to the front of this transition. Norway has good and solid experience in handling such major changes. We did it right when the hydropower came. We did it well and correctly when the oil and gas ages came, and we also have to cope with this conversion, but we have to start now. The petroleum sector is and will remain our main industry, and it will be with us for a long time. It is important for jobs, it is important for incomes to the country, it is important for many related industries, and it is technologically at the forefront. But also that sector needs – and is – to be aware of the long transition to a greener and more renewable society. We're going to be conscious of the special role we have in this way, and we're also going to be conscious of our place in what you can call the geopolitics of energy. It is important for Europe that they know where they have Norway, both in view of the continued export of gas and in view of cooperation on the exchange of, for example, electricity. The Chairman of the Committee, Elvesuen, pointed out that the discharges in Norway have been there, but that they have been relatively modest. CICERO has calculated that at the speed we've had between 2013 and 2016, it will take 2 050 years to arrive at a zero-emission society – not in 2050, but 2 050 years. None of us are enough here in 2,050 years, and it really doesn't worry me much. I am much more concerned, however, that there may not be anyone else here either, because life on the globe has in the meantime become uninhabitable if we don't become more ambitious than this. Now it has to be said – for the sake of order – that it has gone up a little in the last year. The state budget we are now discussing is in many ways good for the analysis of these questions, but very little ambitious for the answers. In the budgetary process, we've been especially concerned with some special things. Some of them have been implemented for, some of them have not been implemented for. I am disappointed that we have not changed the ambitions for carbon capture and storage. Again, Elvesuen is quite right to say that it will be very difficult to achieve our climate goals without carbon capture and storage. Carbon capture and storage are expensive, but there is much more expensive to avoid if the objectives of the Paris Agreement are to be achieved simultaneously. Norway has been in the front line. We've contributed to the development of new technologies, and we have exciting, ongoing projects that we're going to discuss next year, and the really big decisions on costs come then. However, in our opinion, it is totally wrong – and most of the opposition has agreed very much – and very unfortunate that the level of funding that you have had has not been continued. So you've cut it from 360 million. NOK 20 million. kr. We tried to reverse it, we haven't done that, but we'll get back to that discussion. Although we may first have to choose one full-scale project, it is important that we continue the development of technology in various industries and waste management, and that we are ambitious in terms of both capture technology, transport technology and storage technology. The climate crisis is here now, and that means that we need to become more ambitious in terms of climate adaptation. There have been cuts in measures against floods and escapes. We have wanted to reverse them, too, and to ensure that the NVE and others have the necessary resources to both investigate and take measures that can reduce the risk and cost of flood events, as we know will come. It is generally true that prevention is better than repairing, but often the problem is that you do not know exactly where to prevent it. But within this field you often know that. It's relatively predictable where the greatest outcomes come, and then it's both economic and more human/socially important to be able to prevent, and here it should have been done more. We were concerned about the proposal to introduce a charge on electric cars through a new weight class. We also had a discussion about that yesterday during the tax debate, and I am glad that there has been a change there, and that we have not gone in to reduce the difference between fossil cars and electric cars. I would also say in this debate that even though the share of electric cars in the new car sales is going up, we still have a very large inheritance, and that's just 4 pst. of the cars that are electric cars in Norway. Even though people are buying electric cars now, we want that legacy to go on. Therefore, it is important that these concrete, clear measures to stimulate reasonable purchases continue. Furthermore, we are very concerned that the government follows up the Storting's word and intention regarding acquisitions. It has to be 30 pst. environmental protection in public acquisitions everywhere relevant. We have to make that even clearer, because that hasn't always been the case. Finally, I would like to stress that while a central theme here is how we think about the long-term transition towards a more climate-friendly society, we should also remember the importance of taking care of nature. We have been concerned with species diversity, forest protection measures and not least marine pollution measures. Here I want to acknowledge that the State Council Helgesen has taken a role internationally to put it on the agenda, and it is very good and has our full support. But it is very important that this is also followed up here at home, and that we are ambitious and innovative in that field, because there is a field that increases in people's awareness, and a field where action is needed here and now. All in all, we have got a budget that says some sensible things about where we should go, but that little follows up with action. From our point of view, we want to be a technology-optimistic, climate-friendly party. We believe there is room for success, there is room for success in meeting the Paris requirements, and there is room for success in doing so in a way that also means that we have incomes and jobs and are innovative in the future. I look forward to the further debate on this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e409	Is the representative, Mr Eide, going to make suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e414	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e419	The representative of Espen Barth Eide has taken up the proposal of the Labour Party on its own, and the proposal of the Labour Party, together with the SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e426	I would like to begin by taking the opportunity to welcome Mr Eide to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. I look forward to good debates. But I want to take the opportunity to ask a question about the Workers' Party's alternative budget. In that budget we can read that when the Labour Party supported the proposal for a climate agreement with the EU, it was to strengthen, not weaken, Norwegian climate policy. The agreement with the EU did not have to stop Norway from putting into place concrete climate action. My question is, how are we going to interpret this statement? Is it the case that the Workers' Party expressed doubts about the support for a joint emissions obligation with the EU? If not – what new measures will the Workers' Party propose that is not included in the government's draft budget? As far as I can see, there is even more money for more things, but many of the same tools. I can't track any completely new thoughts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e435	Our proposal is properly referred to, and I am pleased that we are getting attention around it, because our point here is that we are fully committed to cooperating with the European Union, and that the EU now has the ETS and other measures as the central forum for rapid and clear action. But it doesn't have to be a sleeping cushion to find our own grip as well. The risk is that if you succeed, you don't do what you can to accelerate your work towards a climate-friendly society. The point is simply to have two thoughts in your head at the same time, to cooperate within the framework of the EU, but not to make it a sleep cushion in terms of your own grip, and we will have many opportunities to follow up as we move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e440	Through its policy, the working party has helped to ensure a predictable and stable petroleum policy. This has been crucial for the success story the industry has become for our country. In recent times, it has been difficult to understand what the Workers' Party really thinks about the future of oil and energy policy, and I am constantly recording spills that are likely to create uncertainties about both the reimbursement system and the free income. Is it so to understand that there is a debate going on in the Workers' Party where the framework conditions for the petroleum industry are being discussed? And if so, does the representative believe that this is the right time to take such a debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e445	Yes, in the sense that, as the representative said, and as I also said in my post, we have worked in a very good way through strong, clear political leadership and cooperation with industry and workers into an oil and gas age, where we are still and will continue to be for many years to come. But we know that one day it ends. We know that, industry itself knows that, investors know that. It became very clear in a meeting yesterday in Paris, where some of the world's largest investors have become more aware of climate risk. In that discussion, we cannot close the door because both tax regimes and reimbursement schemes will change in the future. I want to use the opportunity to make it clear that there are no such proposals now – either on the table or at hand – but we need to have an ongoing discussion on how this country adapts to a future that we know will come, and we should do so sooner than later, because then one will have the most political control over that development.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e451	The centre party and the Labour Party have been, and are, agreeing on most of the energy and climate policy. The Labour Party has also been involved in the predatory settlement in close cooperation with the Centre Party in recent years. Now it turns out that the stock of wolves is far beyond what it should be. What does the Workers' Party think of the decision of Vidar Helgesen to extract fewer wolves than the Great Britain has decided? What will the Workers' Party vote on today's proposal to withdraw the Slagås team, which has been the most controversial wolf crew, and which now appears to be a wolf reserve for the Minister for Climate and Environment from the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e456	There is a wolf settlement in Stortinget, and it seeks best to reconcile and live up to both international and national wishes to have a responsible predatory policy while minimising the harm to livestock farmers. It's a difficult balance, and you go up that balance line. But I mean basically that we're going to be loyal to that we have a principle of a wolf zone, and that we have a stock outside the wolf zone. I'm not going to push a vote on that question, but we're still going to want to maximize the effect of the deal that's there, and still support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e461	I would wish, contrary to the representative of the Progress Party, that there was a little more uncertainty about the petroleum policy of the Workers' Party than it actually is. The current petroleum tax regime causes the State to take the greatest economic risk in the development of the Norwegian base. It also shows a response from the Minister of Oil and Energy to the Energy and Environment Committee dated 4 December 2017. In a short time, the Johan Castberg field will be expanded to Stortinget. The Environment Directorate has criticised Statoil's economic investigations into this field so that they do not take into account that we are living in a world that is going to meet its climate objectives and that fossil energy is thus going to be less valuable in the future. My question is: Will the Workers' Party join SV and press the government to present proper financial investigations of the Johan Castberg construction before the matter is dealt with in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e468	Just in the light of the fact that we know that this story has a beginning and an end – without us being able to place years on it – and precisely because we know it is new thinking in terms of both climate and long-term financial sustainability considerations, it is important that Norway becomes more aware of the economic risk associated with oil and gas extraction. I think we have a very good regime. It's been very reasonable to have both the tax agenda we've had, and the reimbursement system we've had in the last few years, since the mid-2000s, to create room for more actors. In one of my previous answers, I said that we have no plans to change it now, but I believe that in the long run we will have a discussion about it, and that the expectations and clarity of what is profitable for the state of Norway are becoming increasingly important. In that sense, I agree with the intention of the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e473	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e478	I want to start by thanking what has become a nearly completely new committee since the last period, for a good cooperation on next year's budget. Although we do not agree on everything, it is good to see that, after all, there is a fairly wide gap between the long lines of Norwegian energy and environmental policies. Not least, we are a country and a parliament that takes climate and environmental issues very seriously, something we should be proud of. For the last four years, the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left have governed energy and environmental policy. Together, we have pursued a policy that has raised ambitions and delivered results. The trend is reversed: emissions in Norway are falling, and growth in the economy is increasing. I'm proud of the results of our guard. We have created a framework for climate policy that will last for a long time in the future. The Paris Agreement, a joint emission obligation with the EU, the principles of the Energy Communication, the Industry Communication, the National Transport Plan and the new Climate Change Act are measures on which we have a solid foundation to build. When the four non-socialist parties won the elections in the autumn, it was also a renewed mandate for our climate and environmental policies. Four years of criticism from the opposition in this room did not resonate with the voters. That is why we are here today and are discussing the consensus on the civil side for five consecutive years. Once again, our four parties have shown that we are the best fit to find the balance point in climate policy. On the one hand, we make it more expensive and less attractive to pollute, on the other hand, we make it more profitable and easier to choose green. This applies both to business and to individuals. For this reason, there are no major new headings in the government budget or in the agreement between our four parties. But precisely this predictability is also a quality stamp of our common policy. The criticism of the budget has been of the foreseeable nature. It is largely about spending too little money, or it is going too slowly. It is a criticism that we live well with because, after all, we can show results. When there are some million more or less disagreements, there is a clear sign that the opposition lacks its own ideas. There is at all something thoughtful and simple about a criticism that is only about not being given enough money. So they're on the left-hand side that the only thing they can agree on is that more money is always preferable. They cannot agree on a common political project. The main reason why opposition parties have more money to spend on most of it is simple: what they have in common is an unsurpassed willingness to tax business and to increase taxes and charges for ordinary workers. We don't believe that the Workers' Party's billion bill to the companies or SVs and the Environmental Party The Greens' billion fees on air travel and fuel are good neither for business conversion nor for the will of ordinary people to live more environmentally friendly. Where we focus on targeted research, measures for the conversion and reward of environmentally friendly choices, the opposition will have increased taxes and taxes and more prohibitions and injunctions. This is made clear in our proposal for a State budget and in the opposition's alternatives. There is a gaping staur on the left side of Norwegian climate policy. The working party is empty of ideas and believes that the government is doing too little, too late, and that more money should be spent. SV has, if possible, become even more radical in climate policy. In the center part, the only thing that's still green is the color of the partial logo. It is not possible to come in the opposite direction when looking at the budget of the Greens/Greens/EFA, for example. is proposed for 10 billion. kr in increased fuel charges, more expensive meat, more expensive air travel and a power shock we have not seen before, with an increase in the electricity charge of 6 øre per kWh in one year. The sum of these is a red-green climate policy that is expensive for businesses, animals for families, and that does not cut emissions worth mentioning, either nationally or globally. We also spend a lot of money on climate and the environment. In order to finance all this good climate policy and other efforts, we also need sources of revenue from the State budget. One of the biggest contributors, despite years of low economic activity, is the oil and gas industry. One of the strangest experiences I had in the election campaign was in a debate with the Greens, where it was claimed that the oil and gas industries did not contribute directly to the welfare state. But how is that really the industry contributing? The Community receives revenue in at least three ways: direct income, such as taxes and taxes, there are returns from the oil fund and ring-fences from all the jobs in the industry. In 2017, it was 180 billion. kr. That's a lot of money. That's why I'm worried when I see how disunity and ambiguity the opposition is about the framework conditions for the country's main industry. In the autumn, I have heard representatives from the Workers' Party who have gone much further than the representative Marthinsen did in the election campaign, suggesting that we need to look at the fiscal policy of the oil industry. We see an SV running away from its own policies and decisions, for example. on the extension of the Barents Sea. And then, of course, it's the Greens' Environment Party, which would like to put everything down. We also have our disagreements on the non-socialist side, but we have jointly delivered on that industry they say they want: predictable framework conditions and an attractive new search area. And we now agree to establish a new low-carbon oil and gas centre. I have summarized it from this pulpit five times earlier, but I would like to do it again: the previous years, with a non-socialist majority, have given us a force for Norwegian nature protection, a huge effort to cut emissions in industry, offensive measures to cut emissions in the transport sector and a clear international commitment. I am proud of what we have achieved so far, and with this budget it will be a lot to be proud of in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e508	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e513	I would like to quote the Newspaper on 4 September 2015, where the former Promoting Party spokesman for energy and the environment states: ‘The environmental movement has had too easy access to money through the State grant scheme.’ And we read in the Government, Right and Advance Party proposals for 2018 on strong cuts in subsidies to voluntary organisations. The voluntary nature and outdoor organisations are crucial and the very hub of disseminating knowledge about nature and the environment, facilitating open-air activities for children and young people and much more. What is the opinion of the Government Party Right-wing voluntary organisations, which rely largely on volunteers — children, young people, adults, who are not paid for their efforts — to cut off activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e522	It is not true that voluntary organisations in the field of nature protection and other things are cut off in the budget of the Ministry of Climate and Environment. On the contrary, they have maintained their support over several years. We believe the job they're doing is important, and that's why we think it's right to grant money to enable them to have an activity. I also do not agree that it is only the organisations that give people in Norway a reason, or arguments, to use nature. I think very many in Norway have a good relationship to be out in nature, go in the mountains, go on a trip, use nature. It's the most important thing, and then it's important that we have an accessible nature, that we facilitate everyday activities, that we can do such things. I do not agree with the picture drawn by that this is something that we are not also concerned about, because we are absolutely.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e529	As surely as it will be Christmas, it is that the Council of State, Vidar Helgesen, will stop the turbulent act before Christmas. This was also the case this year, when he came with the news on December 1st that the Slagås-flock should not be taken out – despite the fact that there is much more wolf now than the stated target of the Storting, and despite the fact that the Stortinget has given a clear message that the wolf zone should not be a wolf reserve. But then we can't deny ourselves the ability to manage the wolf within the zone, as the Council of State has now done. People are desperate. This is a very important matter for those involved, and for the principle of how we should manage our wolf. Does the representative Bru believe that the wolf zone will be a reserve for the wolf, and will the Right vote for the Senter Party's proposal to take out the whole Slagås pack, or will people in the wolf zone get more wolf in Christmas gift from the Right this year too?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e536	I can start by answering the question whether I believe it should be a wolf reserve. No, I don't mean that. So it's like we have a deal in the Storting, of which, unfortunately, the Center Party is not part. The centre party has chosen to sit entirely on the sideline of the administration of the Norwegian wolf tribe instead of being involved and taking responsibility through responsible settlements in the Stortinget, and that seems to me to be a pity. And with the decisions taken about killing in the department now, one begins to approach the stock target that the Stortinget set by this agreement. I am recording that this is the one matter on which the centre party is involved in the climate and environmental debate. This is the second question so far only today on this topic. Maybe when you're on the outside, you just have to talk about the same thing all the way. I wish the Centre Party could be involved instead of pursuing a policy and wish for a development where we won't have a single wolf in Norway. Fortunately, there is no agreement between the majority in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e546	I would first like to remind the representative Bru that most people come out better with SV's red and green tax change than with this government, and we have put forward new policies, driven by policy development. Unlike this government, we present new ideas. It might be something for them. But what I really took a line on is climate risk. For the combination of an enhanced climate policy, the Paris Agreement and the market introduction of new technologies, there is a significant risk to the petroleum nation of Norway. There is also something to be addressed by the Right, for they have agreed at their national meeting to demand that climate policy risk analysis be carried out in relation to plans for the development and operation of new fields. The Directorate for the Environment has shown that the profitability calculation for the Castberg field is too poor. So my question to the representative Bru is whether they will take the initiative to present a new and better profitability assessment and climate risk assessment of the Castberg field.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e555	Here it was a lot to deal with, but I have to start a little bit at the top. Firstly, I believe that the four previous years, with a bourgeois majority in the Grand Duchy, have actually shifted climate policy several times, with new measures and new ideas: we have got a climate law, we have received offensive decisions in the energy communication, we have adopted the Paris agreement, and we are about to conclude an agreement with the EU on climate policy in the future. So that's where it happens. So to climate risk, yes, this is something that we also take seriously. That is why the government has just put down a sample to look at climate risk, because it becomes very important to discuss and follow up on the future. On the issue of profitability assessments and the role of the Environment Directorate: I do not believe that the Directorate for the Environment is competent to carry out socio-economic profitability analyses of oil projects, but there are others. Of course, the Environment Directorate has to make its professional input on the environment, but in terms of profitability calculations, I don't think they're the right body for it. I am sure that in the future we will also see more projects of oil and gas in Norway that will have good profitability.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e566	I think it is healthy for the representative Bru to take credit for the climate law that was adopted here in Stortinget, promoted by other parties, and not least the Paris Agreement, which has been behind and worked for several years. I think it's eye-catching, what's said about profitability assessments. The right has itself decided that there is a need to carry out that type of climate risk analysis. This is not done today in the context of plans for deployment and operation. What has been presented from the builder in this case, for the Castberg field, is too bad. It's fixed. It doesn't even assume that you're going to reach the Paris Agreement the representative Bru boasts of; it doesn't require the world to reach it. Therefore, I wonder again whether it is not time for the Right to take the initiative to get a proper risk analysis of that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e573	First, I did not take credit for the Climate Act alone. I said that it is the bourgeois majority who have pushed these things through in the Storting, which is something more than the red-green government succeeded when they put in power and had a clean majority in the Storing. So once again to climate risk: this is not the case when an oil company today is working on a PUD – a plan for expansion and operation – and it is delivered in the Stortinget, that they do not take into account climate risk in their calculations. This is done by all the companies that want to expand something on a Norwegian base. Of course, they're adding the expected price, the expected development, the expectations of how the climate regime is going to be in the future, and it's in the calculations. So it's not that you've never thought about this before, or that this is something that's not being evaluated at all. Of course it does. But I fully agree with the representative that this is a topic that we are going to have to talk a lot more about in the future. It does not only apply to oil and gas expansions, it applies in many areas of Norwegian society. For climate risk and adaptation, something we have to deal with is, all the time we know it's going to be very difficult to avoid getting any temperature rise. We know that we're going to get that anyway, and then we have to adapt.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e582	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e587	It is a pleasure for me that we can handle this setting today. I would also like to thank the Committee for the work – not least the Left and Christian People's Party for good cooperation – and for presenting today a forward-looking budget for energy and environment policy in Norway. A great deal of budgetary policy is about allocating funds for many good purposes. The production of oil and gas represents a sector that creates large values and, in addition, creates activity and jobs, ensures the welfare state and contributes to the realization of all the many desires for all the good purposes. We now see an industry that has undergone an enormous transformation. Development costs have been halved in some fields, and it shows that even in a new everyday life, with completely different oil prices, a profitable future for the Norwegian petroleum industry can be ensured. For this reason, the government adopts a policy that strengthens industry, maintains predictable framework conditions and provides access to new areas. Norway is well placed in the energy context, and the oil and gas sector, together with a strong commitment to renewables, reinforces Norway as a major energy and environmental nation. Climate challenges are global and therefore require both national and international solutions. Norway has set ambitious targets for climate policy, and we have good opportunities to succeed — with strong technology centres, skilled labour and quantities of energy resources. It may be difficult to get involved in the debate, but Norway should definitely be among the nations that have every opportunity to meet their commitments. The world is demanding more energy, and it is important to facilitate growth in renewable energy. This does not mean that fossil energy sources will be replaced tomorrow, but it should be organised so that it is the most polluting energy sources that are first phased out. This means that Norwegian gas can be our contribution to replacing the use of coal in Europe, which we unfortunately see is still a sought-after source of energy. I visited Gassco last week and got a presentation of the world's future energy needs and the major changes that are taking place in terms of demand and production, and I think that everyone who was guests at Gassco that evening agreed that we need to speak Norwegian gas. It is also gratifying to follow the promises of the election campaign and to do what the industry has requested in order to facilitate a State programme of low-carbon technologies for the oil and gas sectors. It will obviously strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian soils and help us achieve faster developments in low-carbon technologies. The continued development of this technology will facilitate the continued positive development of the petroleum industry. The government has made considerable efforts to capture and store carbon. We have come to the point where the actors have delivered their concept studies, and these should now be reviewed. These studies will show the costs and benefits of a full-scale CO 2 management project in Norway, and I look forward to the government coming to Stortinget with a comprehensive proposal on the work after the results have been reviewed. There are several areas that can contribute to smaller emissions. Shipping is one of them, and for environmentally friendly shipping I have also been the case rapporteur. Here we are many who share a common ambition to get more of the freight on the keel while at the same time bringing down the emissions from shipping. Shipping has historically been an important industry for the maritime nation of Norway and is an industry that will be important for the country in the future. Today, nearly 100,000 people work in the maritime industry, representing an annual valuation of nearly 175 billion. kr. It commits, and it means great opportunities for Norway to be a modern and innovative maritime nation in the future that also shows its way internationally. Ensuring the use of more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly fuels and more energy-efficient ships is the key factor in achieving our objectives. In this context, I would like to take the opportunity to respond to the concerns raised in the budgetary process by the shipping companies regarding the termination of the exemption from the CO 2 tax on LNG. I, the undersigned, on behalf of the Party for Progress, will follow closely the development of the choice of fuel types in the industry ahead. I also want to invite the industry to work together to find good solutions to achieve our common ambitions. It means reducing emissions from shipping, while strengthening the position of Norwegian maritime industries. Norway shall continue to lead the way. The Progress Party shall play on teams with industry and on teams with the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e616	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e621	I would like to start by welcoming Terje Halleland to the Committee on Energy and the Environment! In the last period, the Progress Party – and in Norwegian policy, the Progress Party has been – was the great brake block for climate policy. The Progress Party continues to have a kind of leading seminar on whether climate change is a real problem at all. And it is probably the merits of the Advance Party that Norway, as one of the few countries, has introduced climate skeptics into government. That is probably also why we have hardly seen any new climate initiatives from this government. Everything that has happened has either come as a result of the negotiations with the Left and Christian People's Party or that one has been overrun by the Stortinget, an example of which is the Climate Act. But I'll give Halleland a chance. It is a new period, a new government statement to be negotiated. Therefore, my specific question to Halleland is whether he can give an example of an initiative that the Progress Party will take in terms of new climate policies and policies to take care of Norwegian nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e630	It must be a little disappointing for the opposition to sit and look at the good policy – both on the environment and on the climate – that is implemented by the government, where the Progress Party sits and is involved. What's always been the difference between the Progress Party and the other parties is that we've been very concerned with the outcome of the policy that's being pursued, and not just with the symbols that such a policy brings with it. For this reason, the Progress Party has been involved in many decisions that have produced good results. That is why I also included in my article the importance of Norwegian gas. We can look at emissions occurring in Europe. Where Norway can really be involved and contribute is in the development of technology. The Progress Party has been a driver to promote and allocate funds for technological development, which is the solution to future environmental problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e637	This was not an answer to the question I asked. I asked a question about whether the Progress Party could come up with examples of actions they would propose during the period we are about to enter. Halleland has made a choice, has been elected to the Stortinget. He shall sit on the Energy and Environment Committee and be responsible for taking care of Norwegian nature and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. I therefore ask again whether he can provide concrete examples of initiatives that the Progress Party will take in the negotiations on a new government statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e642	It is very disappointing if the representative believes that subsidies to technology development do not contribute to improving the environment. I think giving framework conditions that enable both industry and research institutions to participate in a technological development that will bring down emissions will be very crucial. The party of progress has been a proponent there. And we see that the technology that Norway uses is exported and used abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e648	In particular, the centre party is concerned with the availability of funds for specific actions that operate in areas of predators, grazing animals and conflict populations. Once again, we see that the disputed Slagås team is at peace with the government. The plainås team has been particularly close and has caused great fear of the local population. I noticed that the representative from the second government party tried to ridicule our proposal to take out the Slagås team, but we should be aware that there are many who are following this debate today, because this means something to people. The Central Party and the Advance Party have agreed on predatory policies. How does the Progress Party view the possible entry of the Left into the government and a hand in the management of the predatory game policy, and will the Progress Party today vote in favour of the proposal to withdraw the Slagås group?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e657	I understand that wolves are important to the Center Party, and I join it. Wolf is very important and a challenge for grazing industries in Norway. We have a big responsibility when we have a distribution in our land policy where we set part of the area for grazing, and we have other areas that we set aside for predators. Then we have a great responsibility for this being managed in a responsible way, and we can often see that we have not done so in a way that would have been desirable. We live in a state of law, and then it's like not all the judiciary decides is what we want, but we have to follow it and adapt. We'll do that in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e664	During the election campaign we were told from the Progress Party that Norway must be allowed to compete to deliver oil and gas cleaner than other countries. The Green Party likes market competition, but then we might have to compete for what is important in the 21st century, not what was dominant technologies in the 20th century. The progress party is going to continue a tax model for the oil companies that gives them huge benefits, and over the last five years it's been paid over 85 billion. kr in tax mergers. Does the Progress Party believe that it is still right that Norway should pay oil companies in order to take over the risks that we taxpayers otherwise have? And will the Progress Party work to ensure that land-based industries have equivalent and as favourable tax conditions as the current tax model gives to the oil industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e671	No, that's a good answer to the question. Extracting oil and gas in Norway is associated with risks. We need to have a tax system that helps to distribute the risk between both the state and the companies that are involved in the search. The reimbursement scheme has shown that we have taken a fair blink in the way of managing this. We've been taking risks, and so have the companies – and we're in. Then we have to refund some of their expenses, but I don't care when I see what income the state gets back, precisely because we have such a reimbursement scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e676	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e681	I can reassure the representative Tina Bru that it's not just the logo in the Center Party that's green. Today I have even put on a blue-green tie to honor her. But the program is also green. The central part's entrance to the energy and environmental field is that we should leave the globe in a better condition than we took over. But it's also about us having faith that man can sustainably reap from nature's resources. The centre party prioritises sustainable use and management over static and formalist protection. Besides, the Center Party believes that it is a value in itself that we use the whole country, where we have the freedom to choose for ourselves where we want to live our lives. The field of energy and the environment is a broad field, but closely linked. In Norway, we will be involved in achieving climate objectives, while managing huge natural resources, both renewable and non-renewable, in the energy sector. The centre party is a follow-up to precautionary measures in order not to exceed the 2 degree target, but we are also technology optimisms. That is why we are accompaniment to strong conversion measures that provide rapid emission reductions, such as carbon capture and storage, but also to forests, both the binding capacity of the forest and the industrial opportunities associated with the whole value chain for wood. Unfortunately, we see a society that is centralised in more and more areas, and increasingly faster. It creates greater distance between people and nature. It creates a distance between those who live off and in nature, and those who live their lives in cities and larger agglomerations. It increases conflicts and makes the challenges of environmental and climate work mildly challenging, even though we are all equally dependent on nature, whether we live centrally or peripherally. The centre party ends up wholeheartedly on the climate targets of 40 p.m. cut in emissions by 2030 compared to the 1989 level. We recognise that cuts must come in all sectors, and the instruments must cut real emissions in all sectors. In addition, we need to ensure that we produce actual alternatives to fossil solutions. The centre party is committed to ensuring broad disintegration of the transition we're going to have to make. Then we have to avoid actions that turn out unfair. We must ensure the central supports of the Norwegian model, including: through continued social and geographical smoothing. Unfortunately, we seem to be able to see that general measures are often implemented that affect crooked and unfairly, such as the removal of parking spaces or the exclusion of urban residents from cities and central public functions, and not least the trajectories that pass through cities. This increases social disparities within cities, but also helps to shut out commuters and other residents — or something as simple as increasing fuel taxes without considering all those who actually depend on the private car in order to make everyday life go up. This applies whether you commute from the village to the city, drive kids to and from school, football, corps and handball, or just do not have the shop on the first floor and the railway station on the underfloor, as it has become so trendy to think that it should be among the spatial planners. If we are to ensure social and geographical smoothing, differentiation of measures is strictly necessary. In areas rich in people, it can mean a wide range of collective services, while in the districts there must still be room for the private car. We therefore need instruments that provide a wide range of opportunities to contribute with emission reductions. Norway is in a special position as regards access to natural resources. We are self-sufficient in renewable energy – and so on – and have every opportunity to contribute to green growth based on these resources. It requires a long-term and clear commitment to further renewable energy production, but also to technological development. New technologies on Norwegian resources provide a basis for value creation throughout the country, but can also bring us closer to climate goals and solutions internationally. There is no doubt that renewable resources will contribute to reduced emissions, but there are also many opportunities for value creation in society. The centre party sees emissions cuts in the transport sector, low-carbon technology development in industry and offensive efforts to capture and store carbon as key and significant climate measures. The centre party will therefore continue its work on a CO 2 business transport fund using the business NOx fund model. We've put off 1 billion. NOK for this and hope that we get ready progress. The centre batch also pays for CO 2 handling and has added 340 million. kr in addition to the government’s proposals for the 20 million. That's right there. That's absolutely crucial, because if we're going to reach the climate targets and avoid a temperature rise of over 2 degrees, then we don't have time to lose, we don't have the skills to lose, and we can't afford to take a break, as the government describes it. Not only is the Centre concerned with reducing climate change through conversion and technology development. The centre party also takes on the fact that climate change is already here. Then we have to prepare society for this. The centre part therefore strengthens the work on flood and tailor-made prevention in line with the NVE's reported needs of 200 million. kr. Last autumn and several times in recent years, we have seen tragic and clear examples of this being absolutely necessary, an area in which we have to take seriously the responsibility of the authorities. I am promoting the proposals that the Central Party is behind or a part of, and I would like to draw attention to the loose proposal that is in the Chamber today on the Slagås team.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e715	The representative Ole André Myhrvold has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e722	The representative Myhrvold was into the green – both tie and forest, yes many things. What might be interesting to ask is whether the representative believes that the tie can one day come from the forest industry. How can you look at increasing value creation in the forest value chain, and how can you contribute to increased value creation and new jobs in this green shift?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e729	It is probably all that can come from a barrel of oil today that we can also extract from the timber in the future, but then we must ensure the three industries in Norway the framework conditions. Today we see that the largest timber processing plant in Norway, Norwegian Forest, is struggling violently in counter-basin and is now facing buying-in. It seems that the industry is being saved, but we need to ensure framework conditions such as this. CO 2 compensation and reduced electricity charge, and we need to facilitate the delivery of the timber on our roads. It's about providing framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e737	I live in a farm – a bit out in the countryside. The collective offer is like that too. There are no tracks and lanes, and there are ratchets with bicycles and walkways. If you are concerned about the climate, there are still many possibilities. Several of the farmers in Westfold put solar cells on the bar roofs, deliver animal waste to our biogas plant, and many of us drive an electric car. In fact, you don't have to live in town to be climate friendly. At the same time, we see that the Center Party is establishing itself as the most climate-friendly party on the Stortinget. Today, for example, The centre party is the only party on Stortinget that won't use the petrol tax to motivate people to become more climate friendly. So how does the representative Myhrvold think we're going to achieve the goal of not selling fossil cars in just seven years if he's not willing to use the charging system to achieve it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e744	I am quite sure that we can achieve that goal by continuing to use carrots in the charging policy rather than using whips and putting a significant burden on individuals. It is quite right that those who live pig-grown are also willing to take their climate responsibility by using solar cells, wind power, etc. We see that, and the Center Party will have incentives to strengthen it.We will also facilitate the choice of fossil-free fuel and climate-friendly means of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e752	The government has started and conducted studies in carbon capture and storage. The government now wants to anchor the project in Stortinget. In this respect, I record that the centre party wants to move forward without that quality assurance – either for profitability or for utility. Is it this way, especially in the light of previous decisions of the Central Party's time in the government, that the Center Party believes this is a good process for further progress?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e759	We take the industry's clear signals seriously that a break will now lead to a loss of time, but not least to a loss of competence. This is an animal competence, an apparatus rigged up and running. That competence we risk disappearing to other types of projects if we don't keep going. That's why the Center Party still wants to bet, so that we get full use of the expertise that's there and realize these projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e764	The SV and the Center Party have cooperated very well in many areas, such as agriculture and district policy. But then there's one area where we've worn a little bit, and with which they've also had a lot of trouble with nature and environmental organisations, and that's what classical nature protection is all about. I think it's very sad for the cooperation, I think it's gross towards the environmental organisations, and I think it's gross towards Norwegian nature. I can't see that the Centre Party has increased anything in the budget in terms of ecological base maps, the protection of endangered species and natural habitats, etc. Classic nature protection is almost absent from the Centre Party's programme and the Central Party's budget. It's search. And the Central Party needs much cooperation with the organisations to achieve its goals of rural policy and sustainable agriculture as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e771	The centre party is pleased to cooperate well with SV through time on the environmental side, but the centre party and SV have a different starting point in terms of nature protection. As I said in my introduction, the Centre Party is engaged in administration, but also in the use of nature in an administratively good way. Where SV says protection, we say sustainable management through use. That's the big difference between the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e776	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e781	Since I was born, the world's populations of wild animals are almost halved. We're in the middle of an extermination of plants and animals we haven't seen our husband for 65 million years. The worst thing is that we have no withdrawal period. If we wipe out an animal or plant species, it's finally. Nature is on for us every day, 24 hours a day. It gives us fresh air, clean water, food, clothes, houses and medicines, as well as amazing natural experiences – all for free. Today, our huge consumption of land poses the threat to natural wealth. The urgency of the government to pave the way for growth in private cars is a serious threat to nature, and it facilitates increased emissions of greenhouse gases. Climate change is already affecting people in poor countries the most, but also in Norway we experience rainstorms, floods and races. Earlier this fall, both the Minister for Oil and Energy and the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation went to South Africa to visit the flood victims. To the NRK, the Minister of State said: ‘We see how vulnerable we are, so it is important to prepare for more stormy and stronger forces.’ The oil and energy minister’s message was that the flood was “a strong reminder that there must be even harder work on prevention related to floods and scaffolding”. The visit and the promises of stronger efforts to avoid such damage came on 4 October. A little over a week later, the government budget came with the answer. There it was cut in the appropriations that are just going to give us this protection, a protection that is becoming increasingly necessary for the more time we waste on not getting large emissions. The UN Environment Programme launched a report during the course of the year to show that if we do not cut emissions much more than what is promised under the Paris Agreement, the global average temperature will increase by more than 3 degrees. It is very serious and will give several places irreversible changes in nature. Luckily, it's a point of light. A few weeks ago, the Bank of Norway advised that the oil fund should not invest in oil shares. Yesterday, the news came that the World Bank will stop financing oil and gas projects after 2019. We need the big money to be spent on the renewable solutions. It is no longer just irresponsible to nature and future generations to just run on in the oil policy, as the oil and energy minister said when he released record-breaking permits to the oil industry in the Barents Sea. It is also becoming a deeply irresponsible economic policy. If we are to be able to avoid the worst impacts of climate change, much of the already discovered fossil energy resources must remain on the ground. The eagerness of the government to pump up more oil does not only damage the climate. It may also lead to large economic losses remaining in the community. The SV's alternative budget and our 42 proposals for emissions reductions in Norway, which we promoted earlier in the autumn, will help Norway achieve the objectives we set in 2012 through the last climate agreement. The climate is dependent on action now – not new beautiful promises of emissions cut by anyone else, elsewhere in the distant future. With this, I take up the proposals where SV is involved, as well as solving our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e805	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e812	Norway has long had a leading role in developing technology for CCS, i.e. carbon capture and storage, and we have discussed this previously in relation to the three ongoing projects. I would like the representative Haltbrecken's comment on that, but also ask the question: is it possible at all to achieve the Paris objectives if we do not walk the road to carbon capture and storage?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e817	In the last question, the answer is simply no. In that case, it will be much more expensive. I myself heard the first talk on CO 2 capture and storage as a young Nature and Youth activist in 1989, by Erik Lindeberg at the SINTEF energy research in Trondheim, and since then I have been convinced that this is one of many very important measures that need to be implemented in order to get a big cut in emissions. Rarely has a government received such strong criticism, from an overall environmental movement and industry, for a cut that would make it more difficult for Norway to maintain the leadership position we are going to have as a nation to bet on CO 2 capture and storage.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e830	It's nice to see two socialists standing and discussing their own excellence. But in the context of Goliath’s development plan – a plan SV presented with great zeal – SV wrote among others. in the notes that this was a milestone for the petroleum industry, that the industry needed long-term sustainability. They boasted of Eni's job for local ring effects. At the same time, the plan stated that the field would be marginally profitable. It also shows the latest profitability analysis, but this year SV has managed to raise parts of the trade movement, which will be quiet. The lot is not invited by LO to their oil and gas conference. Then I have two questions in connection with these debates Lars Haltbrecken has tried to keep up with this fall. Does it hurt to collide so strongly with itself in the door? And how many times did the Swedish government control the cost development in the field? Did they do it any other way than today's State Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e839	It doesn't hurt at all to take responsibility for the climate risks you run in the large-scale development of oilfields in the Barents Sea. On the other hand, it should worry the representative Heggelund that the Minister of Oil and Energy in the current government is more concerned with the economy of an Italian oil company than with the values of the Norwegian community, which has just been one of our main points to come up with during this autumn, to show that we are taking a great economic risk in the major expansions. SV was also against this expansion internally in the government that Heggelund refers to – which I was not part of – but did not get used to that kind of battle. What we see now is that we have to learn from the experiences we have from the Goliath field, and be very careful in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e845	Energy needs in the world are increasing, and access to energy is a crucial factor in lifting people out of poverty. Norway has good conditions for expanding more water and wind power, but it is land-consuming. My question to the representative, Mr Haltbrecken, who, no later than an hour ago, submitted a proposal for a representative to protect another watercourse is: does the representative not agree that energy is an important prerequisite for people to be out of poverty and that efforts must be made to ensure it as far as possible through clean, renewable energy? In that case, is not the representative and his party's desire to protect most potential areas conflicting with the objective of lifting more people out of poverty and that Norway should take the lead in this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e852	There is no doubt that the poorest people in the world need more energy and need more pure energy, but if the representative Meininger Saudland believes that the power of the Baltic will go to the poorest of the poor in the world, he will probably make a thorough mistake. Fortunately, his party colleague Terje Søviknes, the Minister for Oil and Energy, has also rejected the two power developments in the Baltic Sea. What is worrying, however, and which the government has been responsible for over the last few years, are the major cuts in the commitment to renewable energy in developing countries. There is a significant cut that makes Norway less helpful to the poorest, who need access to clean energy than we should have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e859	In the Left and the Left, we probably share the ambitions that we need to have fast emission shots, and we need to have emission shots that are dramatic – not just to reach the Paris agreement, we're going to reach not only 2 degrees, but 1.5 degrees. CCS and all the major projects and major changes must be implemented. However, the representative Haltbrecken also addressed the climate agreement and the 2020 objective in its contribution. It is much more difficult to find measures that have an impact in the short term. We have the electric car benefits, we have the blending of biofuels -- it goes up to 10 pst. now to the next year — but also with the dilemmas it entails. My question to SV is: What other measures are they looking for, can ensure the short-term emission cuts that go beyond what is already being done?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e866	We need to make a progress in replacing the passenger car park so that we aim that nine out of ten new passenger cars by the end of this landfill period are zero-emission cars. We need to get a stake in electrification of ship traffic along the coast. In this way, the government has submitted a tender for the Kystruten, which is very poor. It does not make use of today’s opportunities for electrification of coastal traffic. We need to take action in industry, which is about the rapid phasing out of the use of black coal, and over to the use of more environmentally friendly biocarbons or other methods to reduce emissions. We have made proposals for 42 emissions cuts, which, together with our alternative state budgets, will provide the emission cuts we need to reach the climate deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e877	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e882	I would also like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation. I have been a first traveler on the sea glass that this budgetary process has been. I've noticed that there may have been a little more hurricane in throws years ago, and that we've come up with good solutions to the settlement party. Of course, as a young idealist, I could have thought of solving a lot more, but it is so that good decisions are a place between being restless and being groundless in the approach. For the Christian People's Party, this field of action and the approach is about the fact that today's generation, i.e. we, has a stewardship responsibility that obliges us to pursue an energy and environmental policy that takes care of the coming generations' right to inherit a planet in the same condition as when we took it – or better. We're going into what's the final phase of the fossil society. At the same time, we realize that this phase is going to last another while. It is then important that a systematic use and development of a society based on renewable technology, where sustainable use and green change are the key words. Luckily, this time there wasn't as much about the green tax change as it was last year. And fortunately, this time, too, we have provided a budget that makes it pay off a little bit more to make the environmentally friendly choices that it is necessary for family members sitting around the table to discuss their everyday lives. Taxes and taxes know I was discussed in the hall here yesterday, but I mention it anyway, because a green tax shift is an important component of a holistic environmental policy. In addition, I would like to note that the differences in network rents are problematic and frames the inhabitants of power stations and districts unnecessarily hard. Access to power is essential in a modern society, and when network services are natural monopolies where customers cannot choose another supplier, it is actually a public task to ensure the same, or at least the same, prices around the country. The cushioning pot has been something that the Christian People's Party has fought for in previous rounds of budget, and this year we haven't got money through the state budget to smooth out the differences in web rentals. But there's a proposal in the committee now made by the Christian People's Party, and I have high expectations that with that proposal we'll be able to get a good solution that will give us a fairer system of online rents around Norway. The government's budget proposal had some reductions. Among other things, it was suggested to reduce the loops for flue and tailoring. I'm very pleased that in the agreement we have managed to reverse that cut. It's about living in a time when we're going to get more confused, we're going to get more weather, and we're going to see the consequences around us today. The climate debate today is both about how we are going to be able to change, and about how we are going to be able to adapt to the changes we are unfortunately facing. In this, the big community also has a responsibility to set up, so that those who happen to be able to be sure that we share our responsibility for securing. This is also about making it possible for local authorities in remote areas to develop their communities and their communities. There has been a lot of talk about full-scale CO 2 cleaning, or so-called CCS, during the budgetary negotiations we have had. I think it is important, and I am glad that we have been told in the budget agreement that it is going to be a continuation of Gassnova's work on full scale CO 2 handling. This means that the contracts concluded with capture and stock operators should not be terminated until the Stortinget has finally been given the opportunity to deal with its government's proposal for a solution. Then I also notice in the budget debate here that I have apparently ended up in an act-right committee with a certain degree of impatience. That's what I think is good, and it might apply in the climate field, but it's also about the environment. We're discussing things like forest protection. We've got a step up in the budget box that's now in place. We have a little bit of a way left to go, but at least we're on the way. Voluntary forest protection has been a success, and one has dampened the conflict and has done a great deal for biodiversity and for habitats for both small and large ‘inhabitants’ in large parts of our country. In its field of nature protection, much is about knowledge and respect for the links we have around nature. It starts early. It's about the big pots on the state budget, and it's about the little ones. I'm very happy that we've also got a little bit of addition on the natural school bag, because if you're going to build an engagement, it's about having to work with the smallest of us. Then there are some small sums that are involved in saying something about a direction, and that help to give a space for action to do it. It's also about something like an ecological base map, where it's about finding the knowledge so that one knows what one has and does not take unnecessary risk when one is going to intervene, whether it's about land use interventions or other things. It's about good governance, and here I'm also happy that we've managed to move the budget in a more correct direction. The same is true of the climate rate, or ‘Proposal for climate action and adaptation’, as it is called. There is a clear way to get a lot of good and ground-based action around our municipalities. It's where people live their lives, and then it's important that a person is able to find the day-to-day solutions that make a person even in everyday life take the more environmentally friendly choices. We've got an increase of 50 million. kr, and that means a difference. In all of these areas one could always say that we should have gotten more, and in many areas one should have done a lot before. Such a field is marine littering. I am glad that we have increased the post, that it has been increased for a long time, even if one would have done more. So I would also like to share in giving Environment Minister Helgesen some credit for the work he has done with a very important international agreement. Marine littering is a good example that we are forced to work in several different areas to achieve the measurements we want. Now I see that the time is running out of me, so let me just say briefly that I think we've managed to make the budget better, and that we have a budget that we can deliver in a good way. Then I like to see the follow-up of our wild bees and the pollination strategy as working cross-sectorally for now – and I have also mentioned it. Then I would recommend the Christian People's Party is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e924	Relax, there's nothing going on about the wolf now. Despite the fact that much of the value creation related to hydropower resources takes place in the districts, network rentals are often more expensive there than in the cities. [[Laughter]] A State grant scheme has previously contributed to the smoothing of the same differences. In the draft state budget for 2018, the government has abolished the whole scheme. A grant that initially amounted to more than 100 million. in 2013, in other words, has been reduced to zero in four budgets. I have noticed the offensive of the Christian People's Party in balancing net tariffs, and their representatives' proposals, but I lack clear action in the budgetary negotiations they have had with the government. So my question to the Christian People's Party is whether they will continue to be as offensive as in the proposal they have promoted. In that case, the Centre Party would like to invite you to a good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e933	I want to thank you for the question. The story here is that the Christian People's Party in budget by budget has fought in place that pot, but that pot has really meant too little. This has been a solution that came into place under the red-green, and that was increased and at most was a little over 100 million. kr, but which was not large enough to mean a difference in the districts where one can actually ignore the power producer, and still pay much more than one do in the areas where one needs a network to access the power in the way one wants. I'm looking forward to approaching this challenge in a different way, where we can look at some of the structures that have created these biases, and come up with a much more offensive solution. I look forward to working with the Center Party on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e940	When I was head of the Naturverkörbundet, I once said that the Christian People's Party and former Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik wrote into Norwegian environmental history in gold writing when the party went off on the gas power case on 9 March 2000. That is why I am also pleased that the Christian People's Party and SV are united on some important oil proposals in the state budget that we are now discussing. But I want to challenge the Christian People's Party on the solution that we have promoted today, to set a limit on when the government alone will be able to decide the oil expansion without having to go to Stortinget. The limit is today at 20 billion. kr – it has increased, first from 5 billion. NOK 10 to SEK 10 billion. kr and then to 20 br. kr. We want to add it to 7 billion. NOK, so we can get more of these discussions in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e947	Thank you for that, and I would also like to thank SV for having now found ourselves in a situation where our parties can ask some questions about the oil management in Norway. I think that's what we need. Earlier today, we have discussed the tax regime a lot, but at least I think that when the public is inside and really spends tax money on helping with both search and investment, it is important that we have an oil management that makes us safe on the investments that are being made and how they are being followed up. When it comes to the specific proposal, I can't give a concrete answer to it over the table, but at least it's a requirement that we have to look at the oil management that we have, and make stricter demands there, and I want to continue working with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e955	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e960	What I particularly like about December, are the slow, clear mornings in the sky, when the blue, vague, vibrating winter light spreads gently across the horizon over the hills in the east. The shades of orange, purple, blue and gray black over the small, chopped tree tops we can imagine in the forests that surround us are hard to catch in words. Sometimes I still try to stretch the words. When we pause for a moment and give ourselves the freedom to reflect on what we do and do in all our travels – Christmas, politics, work and business – it becomes obvious to everyone that human lives are closely embedded in ecosystems and cycles in nature through our daily intake of food and water, our consumption of energy, materials and chemicals, and these things flow through us and further out again in the world. In the policy world, these environmental issues are often treated as a sector interest. But in reality, man is deeply attached to and completely dependent on well-functioning ecosystems. To care about these is to care about ourselves. Our life opportunities are therefore determined by how well we learn to live in interaction with nature. That is why the green nature limits its tolerance as a framework for all policies. Today, we, who are now the Energy and Environment Committee of the European Parliament, must take the lead in respecting these tolerance limits. The budget we are discussing here today may be the most important tool we have to discharge this responsibility. There is an enormous, unrealised potential for a better environmental policy in Norway. This is the fifth year in a row where the possibilities are not seized. Every time the Left and Christian People's Party insists on settling with the Advancement Party, another year is lost, and the budgetary procedure of the year was almost a ritual repetition of the following pattern: Government cutters, ruthless and unpredictable, to endangered species, forest protection, ecological base maps, watercourse nature, action against environmental toxins, environmental grants and animal protection organisations – a lot of literally vital environmental projects. Then the Left and Christian People's Party must fight with beaks and claws to save as much back as possible. Often it succeeds quite well – thank you. But the result is that Norwegian environmental policy stands still. The pattern repeats every year. There's a slot in the disc. It's not going forward. The few lighting points available are compensated by dramatic carbon capture and storage backwards, a flood of petroleum subsidies and record investment in asphalt. In the setting we are dealing with here today, we see some of the possibilities that exist. We are many opposition parties that agree on the following: stop the government's training of a real commitment to carbon capture and storage take the initiative of a large-scale international financial instrument to save life in the sea, following a model from the rainforest initiative; an offensive bet on sea wind, which actually realises a demonstration plant for Norwegian sea wind technology; far greater efforts to prevent desertification, flooding and climate change put in place a gene bank that can save the various wild-tail populations, especially in Hardangerfjorden establish a subsidy scheme for microplastic emissions and for the release of rubber cullet; If we get through this, it can still be better for the other species that we share with Norway, and there can still be movement in climate policy. That is why I am addressing the Greens' proposals for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1005	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1012	I feel that the arguments about nature's resilience and that we have to take on that this is serious, and that this is now, are very strong and very good. If we're to have people with us this way, we have to convince them what to do in the future. What are people going to live on? Where are the jobs to be created? Where will the value creation be after very much of it has been found in the oil and gas sector? This is a reasonable claim, and I am sure that the representative Stoknes has thought a lot about it. But I think it might be interesting if we also share some of those thoughts with the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1019	It has often been made as if the Greens are against the creation of value or against the energy industry as such, against growth in the economy. It's a basic failure capture. On the other hand, we are for a rapid real green growth characterised by a distortion of value creation towards much faster resource productivity. This will ensure jobs both in the energy industry and in other industries. What has happened is that Norway is lagging behind our neighboring Scandinavian countries in the fact that we have a disproportionate share in industrial industries. The service industries, the experience industries and the creative industries have had a much faster growth in our neighbouring countries. So the value creation challenge is solved by becoming an entirely common Scandinavian country again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1024	I thank you for the poetic introduction the representative had. My question goes like the question from the previous replicator. As I read the Environmental Party De Green's alternative budget, they're going to increase taxes by 30 billion. kr and endanger 300000 oil jobs by covering this industry. They will stop road construction in the districts, make housing more expensive, and they will stop wage growth. My question is: how will a person take care of the 100,000 jobs that are directly linked to the oil and gas industries today? After all, one job in the oil and gas industries generates seven other jobs — jobs largely related to the coast. Does the representative think that the policy they are pursuing is to secure jobs? And further, is the Green Party committed to taking on the consequences of this policy for our well-being?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1031	We are particularly concerned about safe jobs, and as the representative pointed out, in the West we experienced a very rapid drop in jobs as soon as the oil price fell due to 2-3 million barrels of surplus on the supply side that distorted the balance and peeled large quantities. This is the opposite of what we could call safe jobs. The turn in the industrial structure for which the Greens are working when we are going to become a common Scandinavian country again is that seven out of ten new jobs will come in service sectors, such as Sweden, Denmark and Finland. Two out of ten are likely to come in new bio-economic and marine industries, and one out of ten will come in new bio-economy extraction sites, i.e. in primary industries, twice as much in industrial industries and the vast majority in service sectors. It provides a lasting, secure job development.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1038	One measure that will help to drastically reduce emissions is to replace coal with pure Norwegian gas. By replacing coal consumption in Germany with pure Norwegian gas, we will be able to cut emissions by six times Norway’s total emissions. The Greens in Germany have made increased use of Norwegian gas for many decades to come as one of their main priorities precisely because it contributes to reducing emissions. In Norway, the Environment Party wants to phase out petroleum production over the next 15 years, which in reality means that Germany will depend on dirty coal power even further. My question to the representative of Stoknes is: why does the representative not want to reduce global emissions by replacing coal with Norwegian natural gas, and what is the Environment Party in Norway that the Environment Party in Germany has failed to understand?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1043	Thank you for the question. It is absolutely right that the EU and Germany will continue to demand Norwegian gas in the coming years, as a bridge to the renewable society. But a typical feature of bridges is that they end somewhere. The representative may have noticed that. We have very good contact with the Greens in Germany. There is a broad consensus that fossil energy, including gas, is going out of Europe's energy mix over the next decades. The Norwegian oil debate is about investing heavily in new oil and gas to be produced in the 2020 and 2030s in the Barents Sea. This gas does not want the EU, nor does the Greens in Germany. We've had a lot of dialogue with them about this. Therefore, these investments become a risk sport both for the Norwegian economy and for the climate. This play is a good example of the government grabbing any straw straw to push this reality away, even a little straw straw from the German Green Party. Instead, the right and the right should realise that it is very unwise for Norway to invest as much on a resource as Europe will buy for only a limited period of time. [[The President clubs.]] In 2017...
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1052	For a long time, there has been much more wolf in Norway than the population target set by the Storting. This has led to very serious problems in large areas of the East. The wolf has done great damage within the wolf zone, but also outside the wolf zone when it has moved beyond the limits of the wolf zone, obviously because there are so many wolves that there is no room within the wolf zone. We also know that the Greens want about. Three times as many wolves in Norway as we have at present. It has been stated that they want approx. 300 wolves in Norway. Then my question to the Greens: Where are the wolves supposed to be? Does the Greens want to expand the wolf zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1057	Thank you for raising a very important question. The Environment Party of the Greens works for the most part: in line with the Storting decision, we will have a viable wolf population in Norway. The wolf is part of the Norwegian species diversity. What does this mean for Norway to have a viable population? In part, Stortinget made a decision in April, and we are still waiting for a follow-up from Helgesen, which we may hear from later today, that the government will come back with an investigation into what it means to have a viable stock of wolves in Norway. These wolves belong in the diversity of species that Norway needs to fulfil our duty and responsibilities under the Berne Convention and others. I don't have detailed knowledge here, right now, about exactly where they're going to live, but the requirements of having a viable population, we have to comply. This is the position of the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1067	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1072	Let me first thank the committee for the work and, not least, thank the Left and Christian People's Party for a good compromise on the budget. The Government, the Left and the Christian People's Party have strengthened climate and environmental policy year after year through the agreement on the budget. We have greatly reduced the gap that we inherited, in order to achieve the 2020 target for domestic emissions. And we have introduced new targets and decisions in both budgets and other long-term impact contexts that allow the 2030 strategy in the Climate Communication to show that we can reach the 2030 climate change target. We are pursuing the objectives of a number of good measures: high levels of public transport and urban environment agreements, significant electricity car benefits and increased use of advanced biofuels, more funding for energy and climate technologies, measures in the forest for increased growth and CO 2 capture here at home and the conservation of rainforests outside, and we are continuing to work internationally for emissions reduction globally. The next year may be the most important to help put in place the ambitious growth mechanism under the Paris Agreement, so that ambitions can be reflected in global climate policy from 2020. It is necessary to achieve the 2-degree target. It's even more necessary if we're going to reach the 1.5 degree ambition. One of our most important tasks is to equip the Norwegian economy and business for a low-carbon future and a green transition. We need greener growth, and we need greener jobs. This is why the government, together with the budget, put forward a green competitiveness strategy that sets out principles of green competitiveness and promotes a comprehensive policy. We also focus on ongoing interaction with business on the weaknesses that have developed into the low-emission society by a large number of sectors. It is important in an era of ever-faster changes that the dialogue and interaction are ongoing. It is important that we have long-term and predictable framework conditions for Norwegian business, in particular a charging system that makes cutting emissions pay off. It is therefore important when the budgetary agreement has an agreement to increase greenhouse gas taxes to 500 SEK per tonne of CO 2 equivalent, that the CO 2 tax is more cost-effective by removing exemptions and abolishing low rates. It is important that we thus strengthen the economic incentives to develop and implement low and zero emission solutions. It is also important that we agree to remove the machine tax. It is important to attract investment to greener business, not least the green data centre, which is the world's fastest growing power-intensive industry. We have also launched a new initiative to market and sell Norwegian green solutions and to attract green investments to Norway. It's not just in the budgets it's important to do the right things. Green public tenders are important to ensure that many of the research and innovation opportunities in the budgets are realised, as we have seen in green shipping. And it is important that we not only have charges that set a price on carbon, we also need to make the cost of climate risk visible – for both public and private investment, good information about the climate risk is necessary to ensure profitable investments. That is why we have put down a climate risk committee. Nor should we forget that in the fight against climate change, the most important thing we do is to make a solid Norwegian contribution to effective global action against global climate change. Globally, there are two main things that have to be done. We must have clean energy both for house, home and heat, for industry and for transport. And we need more sustainable forestry and agriculture, which is today a solid source of emissions. More than a third of what we need to deliver on the Paris Agreement is in sustainable forestry and agriculture. Not many are aware of this. Here the Norwegian climate and forest initiative stands in a special position. I'm glad that this bet increases to almost 3 billion. kr. We also focus on interaction with private actors to mobilise more private capital internationally. There we also saw promising things at the One Planet Summit in Paris yesterday. Also here at home we guarantee nature. We have strengthened our efforts for threatened nature and endangered species in Norway significantly in recent years. It's committed to nearly 1,500 million. kr to forest protection in four years, and it's more than the red-green did in eight. We strengthen the work of ecological base maps and work on aquatic environmental measures. We continue the systematic increase and escalation of efforts towards marine pollution and the spread of microplastics — perhaps the world's fastest growing environmental problem — which require offensive policies in Norway, but which not least require international leadership. We see in the budget agreement a further strengthening of this important work along the Norwegian coast. Let me again thank the Energy and Environment Committee for a good job. Let me also thank the Family and Culture Committee, which dealt with the budget for cultural memory measures yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1104	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1109	First, I would like to acknowledge again that the Council of State Helgesen has done a lot of important work to put the thematic climate risk on the Norwegian agenda. It's very valuable. Since the responsibilities of both the Committee and the State Council of Helgesen are sectoral, I will ask the Council of State a question related to the future organisation of the oil and gas sector. The Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and several parties fully agree that the existing tax regime has been good and that it is today. There's no difference. On the other hand, it seems to the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party that they will now demand a kind of eternal loyalty to current regimes. It really seems that the two parties of the government have elevated the loyalty of the oil tax regime to a part of the creed, and that it is important to promise that in the future you won't change it either. Is this some state council Helgesen comfortable with, or does he realize that in the future we also need to adapt how we organize in that sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1116	As a personal believer, I probably reserve the creed of completely different sectors and dimensions than the oil and gas industry. But I find that we're in a breakup. We are at a time when we see more and more signals internationally that the fossil era is coming to an end. We see this most clearly in coal, but we also see signals that heavy investors, both private and public, also see the perspective for oil and gas. But we also know – and it is important to have both sides of history here – that the United Nations Climate Panel says fossil energy forms are going to be with us for a while. That means that here we have to have ongoing assessments of what are the right tools at all times. Today, there is no change in the tax agenda, but what is on the agenda is this study of climate risk, which will provide us with a good basis for further discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1123	Minister for Climate and Environment Vidar Helgesen has agreed to cut down 42 wolves this winter, but she said she was clearly opposed to the killing of the disputed Lagås team in Trysil – once again. The centre party thinks it is completely incomprehensible that it is not being hunted for the Stlagås team. It's the flock that's created the most trouble. It seems that the Stagås team has become the environmental management's pet eggs. But this is where the conflict is greatest. Therefore, the argument from the Department is deficient. According to the view of the Centre Party, the decision should have been as in the local pollinators. It's a paradox that the Slagås team is being protected in Norway. When wolves from the same flock were in Stockholm this summer, they were shot because they were nearby and took several dogs. When does the Council of State think the fear is great enough to take action to take out the Slotås?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1130	I guess I don't think the Center Party will have much understanding that we have wolves in Norway at all. As has been pointed out in the past, the Senter Party has stood out from the important similarities we have in wolf policy. I think it's important to have a settlement. It's a controversial theme, and it's a theme that affects people's lives and everyday lives, not least in Trysil and in Stykas. But then it is also important that we try to find broad solutions in Stortinget. Part of it is the Natural Diversity Act, which was introduced when the Centre Party was put into government, and the Berne Convention, which a Central Party Council introduced into Norway. In Norway, we have chosen to practice this by having a wolf zone, by having a two-part objective in which, within the wolf zone, the grazing industry must adapt to the wolf and, in the same way, the concern for grazing animals must weigh more heavily outside the wolf zone. It's from that point of view, that the plaintås lies within the wolf zone and partly also in the Swedish territory, and that the threshold for felling that is clearly higher than outside the wolf zone, we have not found a legal basis for the felling of the plaintås revirus.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1135	I will first give tribute to the Council of State and the Right-Representatives who have been up here today and defend that we should have wolves in this country – thank you for that. So to the question: Prime Minister Erna Solberg was yesterday at the climate meeting of the French President in Paris. I am pleased to thank the Prime Minister for the French President's invitation to help design guidelines on how to take account of the climate when investing in all the major funds. The question then is: does this mean that the government will now open up investments in unlisted infrastructure, i.e. windmills, solar parks and other infrastructure not registered on the stock exchange for renewable energy? For most renewable projects, in non-equity companies, the oil fund is currently not mandated to invest in.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1142	The investment portfolio of the State pension fund is an opportunity for the Stortinget to discuss for the spring, in the context of the announcement that comes then. It is an annual phenomenon, and it is not today that issue to be discussed. But I am concerned that what we see from the State pension fund is part of an international movement where we see greater and greater attention to climate risk, but we also see greater and greater attention to the opportunities offered by green energy investments both in energy systems and in green energy conversion in the transport sector. Here, there are discussions that need to be taken and taken on an annual basis. But so far we have found that the political risk of opening up that kind of investment from the fund is too great.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1149	My question goes to marine nesting. Now we have increased the appropriations to combat marine pollution every year in the last five budgets. We also increased by 50 million. kr in year. A large part of these appropriations go to beach clearance. There are many volunteers standing up all over the country and clearing the beaches. It's almost like there's really no more to allow for that particular measure. We need to have more measures that can give a greater impact, both to limit plastic ports in the sea, and also back in the value chain. Then my question is, how does the Council of State see that we can get more effect out of the funds we now grant, and also of future appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1160	First of all, I would like to stress that beach clearance is important. It's a growing movement, and we need it to keep growing, because this is a problem that comes back with the ocean currents. It is not just an end-of-pipe solution, it is a precautionary measure to prevent it from becoming microplastics washed out into the sea. So that's still important. But then we need innovation. We need new solutions, we need more research and development of alternatives to plastics. We need innovation in the way plastics are consumed, and in the way plastics are reused. I do not belong to those who believe that plastic is useless. Plastic is a very important and useful material, including: in the work against food waste. That's exactly why we have so much plastic; it's because it's useful. But we need to find new models – new business models – and alternatives to plastics. Then, of course, we also need to strengthen international work, and a dimension there is to contribute to competence based on the good experience and not least the good volunteer organisations we have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1172	When the government took over, there were many important protection mechanisms in place that took care of Norwegian nature. In recent years, we have seen the blue-blue government reverse and dismantle many of these mechanisms in a way that reminds us more of Donald Trump than of responsible environmental policies. The county has been weakened by the authority to intervene, there is too much more motor travel in nature, in Oslo-marka the government allows new forest roads, and there are fewer restrictions on maximum, to mention something. Will the Helgesen continue to put narrow, short-term business interests ahead of broad, long-term natural, outdoor and public health values equally, or will the Helgesen and the Right ensure this much better in the new government negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1179	If what Stoknes here describes, had been the reality, I would really have put a blow here in the government negotiations, but the reality is that we have strengthened the work of threatened nature considerably in recent years. We have also placed great emphasis on interaction around the issues of the plan and well coordinated guidance for the county councillors on how to deal with objection issues and try to find good local solutions. The fact that you do that doesn't necessarily mean that it gets less protection. So for what's most important in Norway for species diversity, forest protection, we have more than doubled the bet, along with the Left and Christian People's Party, in recent years. I don't think it's ever been protected as much forest as we'll see this year. We are now also investigating the use of instruments for 90 critically endangered species and 60 habitat types, which will be completed during 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1186	Marine envoys have received a lot of attention. Recently we could read in the Daily Mail newspaper about a research report that shows that 95 pst. from 10 of the world’s rivers — eight in Asia and two in Africa. An international initiative, which we support, has now been taken, but how will the Council of State take action to move from strand remediation in Norway to remediation in ten of this world's largest rivers, which account for 95 pst. of the plastic emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1191	First of all, I have to make it clear that the investigation is about the plastic and the plastic waste transported by rivers, and of that, most of it is from these ten rivers. But it's not most of the plastic in the world. There's a lot of plastic going on in the rivers, so this is a very interesting research find. This means that when we are working on the operationalisation of the aid programme that we have established, it will be very interesting to engage in dialogue with the countries where these rivers are located. I was in China a few days ago and I spoke there with my colleague about marine pollution, and we agree on a cooperation between Norway and China on marine pollution. Similarly, I also consider it relevant for other countries which have significant plastic pollution problems. Indonesia is probably the second largest source of plastic in the world's oceans, and there we also have good talks about aid efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1198	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1203	I want the president to remember Christmas 2030. Then the president may be 63 years old, I'm 57 years old. Then maybe we can look back on the budget we decided for 2018, and see if the government actually took the right political steps and created the new jobs we wanted. Did we have a policy that built up under new and necessary export opportunities, so that in Norway we still have the same welfare systems that we have today? Were the targets ambitious? Yes, I think we are betting on it, but do we have the necessary measures to enable us to live good lives here by 2030? I am not convinced that our reflection will then be marked by pride, but I hope so deeply. I'm going to remember that the government would cut the stakes on CCS, carbon capture and storage, on the three major industrial projects in Norway at an unfavourable time and created uncertainty. I am going to remember a government that would not be offensive enough to focus on the environmental weight of its public tenders, either around the coastguard ships or the coastguard, even though the Storting focuses on it. I'm going to remember a government that had to be with the opposition to offensive objectives of reducing transport emissions, but that would leave these goals to the market itself. I will remember that in the hearing, the industry was concerned about the government's budget proposals, which would weaken the industry's management of climate emissions, and where environmental organisations stood on the barricades together with industry and warned against poor environmental performance from a passive, right-hand government. Of course, CCS was a major theme there. When I sit there in 2030, I will show that in 2017 the Workers' Party focused on the development of new environmental technologies, value creation and new industrial workplaces. I hope that I can think that we have raised the competence and conservation of the diversity of species. We worked preventively around floods and migrations, we invested in marine health and future solutions with carbon capture and storage, in demonstration plants for marine wind, and we strengthened the muscles of the Environmental Technology System and Enova. Good climate policy is also good industrial policy. Norway has strong industrial environments in power-processing industries, maritime industries, marine industries, forest industries and the petroleum industry. Here, projects with environmental footprints need to be strengthened. In our alternative budget, we focus on the potential of zero-emission technologies in road transport, biofuels, climate-friendly shipping and carbon capture and storage. We will also focus more on long-term research and development on climate technologies. Norwegian industry must be in the forefront of climate technologies and create new skills jobs throughout the country. After Christmas, this Committee shall discuss a major communication on waste and the circular economy. Within this area too, there is a high potential for increased value creation, new jobs and improved environmental impact, which will be exciting to work with. The Labour Party has strengthened its commitment to marine health through efforts to avoid marine pollution, but also to clean up plastics from the sea. Climate change will lead to warmer, wetter and wild weather in Norway, especially in the West. Then it is important that we focus more on climate adaptation. The government's cut-off proposals in these areas are the wrong way to go. Flood suppression and the ability to escape floods are becoming increasingly important, and the NVE's competence and work in this area must be strengthened, not weakened. In 2040, we may be sitting in each of our smart homes in Norway, where each of us, together with the municipality we live in, hopefully have made the right choices, built up good infrastructure, got new solutions to the climate emissions and has a zero-emission vehicle. Maybe we also live in a society even more characterized by a sharing culture. I hope that we will then live in a more sustainable interaction, understanding that we should all be able to contribute. The right-hand Party Government has been sitting for four years, and if it is correct that greenhouse gas emissions in these four years have been reduced by 0,17 p.m., there is a slaughter rate. So it will take 2050 years for us to reach the climate targets – then I don't think there are many voters left in this country. So we are responsible now, we have to take that opportunity – and unfortunately we have no withdrawal period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1231	We live in an exciting time. Major technological advances give us confidence that we can have a sustainable welfare society based on green economic growth, which will also ensure good welfare services and meet climate objectives in the long term. The budget we have for managing now, shows us that the necessary steps to reduce the expenditure side have been taken. Oil and gas revenues are being reduced, and we need to eventually generate other industries from which we can obtain income. That we have committed ourselves through the Paris Agreement, business has gradually seen it as a business idea and allows them to enter into new industries based on conversion processes. The government has responded by employing good schemes to stimulate this and to create new, green and blue jobs, making Norway one of the countries that takes the lead in this work. Nevertheless, Norway will be an important supplier of oil and gas for many decades yet. The developments that have taken place before technology in the field make us one of the nations that delivers oil and gas in a way that has seen a low footprint compared to the corresponding production in other countries. Therefore, the answer is not that Norway should stop producing oil and gas, as we feel that some others are in favour. On the contrary, we end up with others with poorer HMS statistics and higher CO 2 footprints taking over production. There is therefore no contradiction between continuing to operate with profitable petroleum industry and having an ambitious climate policy. But the revenue from this sector will naturally be lower in the coming years, as the oil price is predicted to stay around at the current level in the superclipsed future, with some variations. The world will still need oil and gas for many decades to come, showing IEA forecasts. To meet the climate challenge, we need to put new technologies into practice and cooperate internationally. The budget also provides for the use of taxes and charges to honour climate-friendly solutions, and a number of support schemes are put in place to test new technologies that cut emissions. Every day, all the time, our technology environment works with the oil and gas supply industry to find new, good answers. Using technologies that we have acquired through the oil and gas industries, in new technologies, has proved to be a success. Connecting this to solving the climate challenge is a cheeky egg. So the government continues to stimulate business to get good technical solutions. Marine wind, catapult, Enova and renewable programmes within maritime industries are examples of this. We are delighted to record that Statoil in the last week delivered PUD on Castberg, a project that through persistent work has reduced its investment costs monthly. From a break-even on the 80 dollar barrel, it is now profitable on the 35 dollar barrel. This shows that in a relatively short time we may optimise and streamline without harming HMS. Castberg, when in production, will be involved in securing well-being and jobs and our ability to find further good solutions for environmentally friendly energy through research and development programmes that will be able to continue. The climate risk of the project has been assessed and will continue to be monitored. New analyses show an increase in investment in oil and gas in the next few years, up to 2020, but then forecasts indicate that investment is falling if no more activity is taking place in this area. It is therefore important to ensure access to new land and the support of framework conditions which make Norwegian soil competitive. But oil companies also expect a gradual adaptation to a low-carbon society, and what we see is that some of the largest oil companies already diversify their portfolio to include other renewable energy sources and technologies because the framework facilitates this. Statoil alone should spend 1000 billion. the coming years of its renewable programme, but they cannot do so without the oil and gas revenues being at the bottom. We're on the way to a Norwegian economy that needs to see sources of income other than the big revenues we've had from oil and gas in the last decades. At the same time, oil and gas industries must continue with us, and we must also be involved in the renewable industries. We have shown in a relatively short time that our expertise can be used against both the sun and the wind, and that through our knowledge costs in the oil and gas sector are reduced, and we have won the competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1255	First, there is reason to stress that we are currently doing well both in our renewable industries and in the oil and gas sectors. Sustainable resource management of natural resources has been a strength for Norwegian society through generations, and I can assure the Storting that that administrative tradition continues the Right Party government. In the renewable sector, we have a power supply with the highest renewable share in Europe – almost zero-emission, 98 pst. renewable electricity. In 2016 we set a production record of 149 TWh, a profit of 17 TWh. In addition, more renewable energy is now being developed in Norway than in 25 years. 8 TWh renewable energy is now being developed, most of it wind, but also something within the upgrading of previous hydropower and new hydropower projects. In the oil and gas sector, it is important to stress the importance of this industry today, not only historically over the past 50 years. It is still Norway's second-largest industry, our second-largest valuer, who gives us great income to the community through both exports and the employment provided by the industry. Nearly 200,000 are still employed in industry, and the industry contributes to stimulating economic and social development across the country — and not least the transfer of skills to other industries, not least the marine industries, to which the government is committed, among other things. through the maritime strategy submitted. Investments in the coming years will rise, and one is now getting a higher activity for the same crowns, because the industry – both oil and gas companies and the supplier industry – has taken cost reductions over the three rather tough years we have behind us. We will receive ten new plans for expansion and operation in 2017 and will also expect five plans in 2018. Many contracts are awarded to the Norwegian supplier industry as a result of these new expansion projects. The 2018 budget provides the basis for further development of the energy sector in Norway. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for its good work. In the budgetary unity negotiated between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party, there are several good measures. There is agreement to lift the investments, or the appropriations, to flood and scrap protection after the government had adjusted out the special package of measures for the South-West. It is important, as many people have been involved, to prevent, not least through concrete physical flood and shear protection. However, even more important is the work done on spatial planning in municipalities in order to avoid the integration of one into new risk areas. In the case of carbon capture and storage, CCS, there is also agreement that we should run the race – the progress plan – that the government has now proposed in the budget proposal, with an overall case for Stortingen to discuss the status after the concept studies have now been delivered on the fishing side. In that proposal, the government will come back with an assessment of the costs, risks to the country and the possibility of involvement by industrial actors, as well as the possibility of further cost reductions and the spread of technology across borders. This full-scale CCS project will bind up large parts of the space of action in the economy in the coming years if we realize it. Therefore, a real anchoring in the Storting is important at the start of a new four-year period. Let me also stress that, as our main instrument of climate action, Enova is strengthened by this budget, and it is focused on the maritime wind strategy that the government presented in the budget paper. There I can tell you that the government has already decided, with reference to the proposal contained in the budget paper, to move forward with one to two areas for possible offshore demonstration parks. I will now contact the NVE to get their assessments of these areas as to whether new information has come after the strategic impact assessment was carried out in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1272	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1277	Let me first say that I look forward to good and important discussions until next year about the big choices in CCS, but I'm not going to ask about it right now. Rather, I wanted to challenge the Council of State on the role that Norway and Norwegian industry can play in terms of fully renewables, in the European and global picture, not least now as we are going to enter into a discussion about our relationship with the EU's single energy package – energy market – and what role the Council of State thinks we can play in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1282	With regard to the renewable industry in Norway, we are a net exporter of renewable energy, and over the year – from the 1990s – we have developed a very closely integrated electricity system with our Nordic neighbours. Gradually, this is also integrated with the rest of Europe, and we have two foreign tables under construction now, which will contribute to further integration. Norway as an energy producer could play a role in balancing, among others. variable renewable energy from the rest of Europe related to sun and wind. In addition, I would like to stress that gas has the same role in Europe and is crucial for Europe's supply of energy. Unfortunately, we also see that as a very clear signal through the explosion we had yesterday, and what this has caused by the turmoil in the energy markets in Europe. But the most important thing we can contribute to is probably further technology development, and that we are on the supplier industry side in the rest of Europe and, to a large extent, globally.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1288	In the debate on the throne, I challenged the Council of State on the need for more protection against slipping and flooding, as we had recently been through extreme weather in South Africa and the NVE had provided an overview of the measures they were ready to implement. The council then said it was the bet of the times. The surprise was therefore great when we two days later, when the state budget was presented, saw a cut of 43 p.m. One thing is zone mapping, but people actually live where they live, people have business where they do business, and the municipalities and agglomerations are where they are located. This means that we also need to take purely material measures. How will the government ensure that public authorities and private authorities are able to prevent that kind of extreme weather in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1295	First of all, I have to stress that the debate on the throne was focused on the four years we have behind us, where there has been a historic investment in flood and escape protection – a total investment by the government that was twice as large as the previous government had in its period. However, when it comes to progress, there are several measures that need to be put into focus. One is spatial planning, which I was also involved in my post. It is extremely important that the municipalities do that job, so that we do not build ourselves into new areas, and there is also the flood and scircuit mapping of the NVE competence environment extremely important as an input factor. In addition, we need to work specifically to secure those areas where there is already population, and where, based on a risk assessment and a dietary benefit assessment, the measures that give the most effect are first taken. There's NVE's priority lists, which now add up to 2.5 billion. kr, and we grant annual appropriations to implement these measures in cooperation with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1300	I want to get into the petroleum tax agenda. In the Council's cost-benefit calculation for the Goliath field, sent to the Energy and Environment Committee, the calculations show that present value before and after tax is not the same. That means that the tax system is not neutral. The tax system is such that something that is unprofitable for the state can be profitable for the builders. Does the Council agree with this analysis?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1305	In the large picture, when we make profitability assessments related to the total portfolio on Norwegian base, profitability assessments are used with 7 pst. discount rate, and one comes to an overall present value for our portfolio. So there will be some projects that have a lower final return once it's completed and completed, and some will have a higher return when it's finished. In some situations — depending on whether you are in the tax position from the start of development or first in the tax position when you are in production — it could be a deviation from the general rule. But the system as such is structured so that the decisions made by the companies will also be socio-economically profitable for the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1310	What I asked was whether the Council of State agrees with the analysis that the tax system is not neutral. Does he agree that the tax system is not neutral?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1315	No, overall, our tax system is neutral in relation to the investment decisions to be made for the Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1320	I welcome the agreement with the other bourgeois parties and, to the extent that the Council of State says, that possible demonstration areas can be set aside for floating wind turbines. It's going to be interesting to see how it's going to develop. At the same time, however, we in Norway see that our climate policy has a clear distinction between what is our commitment in the ETS sector and what is not in the ETS sector. This is reinforced when we connect with the EU. The largest emissions we have are nevertheless offshore. You have the Statfjord field, the Oseberg field and the Ekofisk field. It is also interesting because one needs to develop a technology, develop new industries and look at the possibilities of connecting liquid sea winds to the production of oil and gas activities, both in order to reduce emissions – which in any case we need to bring down – and at the same time to develop technology. My question to the Council of State is: how does he view the possibility of going further and being a driver for precisely launching processes to gain cooperation on floating sea winds and reducing emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1327	As regards the activity on the socket, it is evident that liquid sea winds can be one of several sources of energy for future production. Some of the companies are already working on it. There will be opportunities through Enova, which is our toolbox for this, to get support for that type of project. In addition, we have a law on marine energy, which allows us to authorise directly the type of sea wind projects linked to oil and gas installations, without having to be through the opening of the area in advance. It depends a little on the size of the individual projects. We have to get back to that in the individual cases when an application is made. Then I would like to stress that what the Committee has presented here today, on the allocation to a low-carbon technology centre for oil and gas activities, is very important. I look forward to taking that project further, using the model of the well-known FMEs, and contributing to business, research institutions and the state working together to further develop the technology base we already have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1334	Government council Søviknes can relax, I won't ask for Goliath. Both as a politician and as a leader of the Green Growth Centre at BI, I am quite disappointed that another release of carbon capture has now been created. In Oslo, the aim has been to clean the Klemetsrud plant by 2020, but the municipality and the business community have been waiting and waiting for the state. Instead of acting and leading in the development of an important technology, we have received a government that acts unpredictable and misguided. So my question is, When does – if necessary – an investment decision for CCS on Klemetsrud have to be taken to get clean-up in place by 2020? And when do we possibly have to make an investment decision to get cleaned up by 2021?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1341	In order to answer the question directly, the investment decision may have to have been withdrawn for some time in order to reach both 2020 and 2021. With regard to the full-scale CCS project for the government, we will come back with an updated overall progress plan that we will present in the winter. What matters to us with this project is that it follows an industrial race. It ensures that we get the industry with us, that they also make their assessments of a project, and that we avoid the crash landing we got with the Mongstad project, a more political initiated project. I feel that there is good dialogue between the authorities and industry actors on both the fishing, transport and storage sides. It is important that we have a anchoring of this in Stortinget, because the project – when going to make an investment decision – will bind up to 2 to 4 billion. kr in the year of the operating space during the investment period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1348	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1354	Yesterday it was exactly two years since the Paris Agreement was signed. It is good that the Prime Minister was in Paris and celebrated the agreement, but it is more important what she actually does as Prime Minister. The Paris Agreement is a good framework, but it has no value unless all the countries do what they have to do. Now it's up to us to act. The climate must be the framework of all our policies. All the political choices we make must withstand the climate stones. We cannot say that about Norwegian policy today, because let's look at how our own climate policy is. Today's government went to the elections to strengthen the climate agreement – now we're approaching 2020, and we're not close to reaching it. I want the Minister for Climate and Environment, Vidar Helgesen, to respond in the course of today's debate to whether he conducts a policy to achieve the climate agreement, or whether this government is pursuing a policy to do what they said, and thus the government is going to break the objectives of the Great Britain. Now we've set ourselves new targets, targets for 2030. The problem is that no one can answer exactly what they actually are. We are still waiting for an agreement with the EU, almost three years after the Stortinget agreed to do so. We see a government that almost uses a lack of agreement with the EU as an excuse for not acting. The climate communication presented by the government in spring is a communication without any new measures, and it is up to the opposition to propose a new climate policy for Norway. This budget shows no direction for the transition Norway is going through. We're not taking any new steps to become a low-carbon society. In some areas, it's the opposite. As many have mentioned in the debate, major cuts have been proposed for the capture and storage of CO 2 – the technologies needed to combine both climate and industrial considerations. The proposal to reduce the electric car policy would make it more difficult to achieve our objective that all new cars by 2025 should be zero-emission cars. And on social media, we see that Minister of Oil and Energy, Terje Søviknes, questions the whole system of advantages for electric cars. It might not be so strange, all the time the Progress Party can't decide whether they're behind the same goals as the rest of the Biggest. This is a weak budget for the climate, and it is an even worse budget for the environment. It has been proposed to cut endangered species and habitat types, cut to water management, cut to work on ecological land maps and cut to voluntary forest protection – despite the fact that the Stortinge has decided that we should have more, not less, forest protection. Even in areas related to marine litter, Vidar Helgesen suggested cutting, despite traveling around the world to talk about the theme. I have no doubt that Vidar Helgesen is concerned about environmental protection, and that he believes there is a need to do something about the great destruction of biodiversity. It's just that we have a climate and environment minister who loses battle after battle against Siv Jensen. It is in practice the leader of the Progress Party who has to decide on environmental policy in Norway. It is true as WWF said when the government presented its government budget: ‘There are two great losers in this state budget: the world climate and Norwegian nature.’ The working party wants something else. We want a big boost for Norwegian nature, where we stop the loss of plant and animal life, where we create new national parks, where we get a gene bank in Hardanger, and where we make a great effort to take care of our oceans. We want Norway to go ahead of the climate. We're going to do our part of the job. Then we have to ensure the benefits that allow us to replace the car park and build an infrastructure that makes it possible to do so throughout the country. We need to develop CO 2 capture and storage technologies. We have to bet on sea wind and all the possibilities it gives us. We must have a faster expansion of river ferries and railways and of public transport in the big cities. Today, all parties have a better environmental and climate profile than the government has. It actually means that there is a majority for a better policy than the one that is going to be adopted today. The Right Party and the Advance Party are at the forefront of Norwegian environmental policy. In the last period, hardly any new initiatives were taken that did not come through cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party or were forced by a large majority. This period does not start better with this budget. In Norway, it is up to the opposition to propose a better climate policy for the country. It is a responsibility the Labour Party is ready to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1383	It began with the sighting of signs of geologic age. At the beginning of the 1800s came new theories and with them came the question of whether the climate had really been so different in a past time – had it been an ice age where glaciers covered most of Europe and North America? Today, we know a lot more about geological age, but also about climate change. We know that temperature changes happen faster than ever, and that it is because of human activity. It's clear that there's something that takes time to take over. All of a sudden, people are told that quite ordinary things they do, things we all do in these short lives on the planet, like transporting us to work and school and heating up our homes when it's called, that we make food for our family, that we throw garbage, that we travel on vacation – all these common things can threaten the climate. Probably because of this -- because people experience it as a threat to our prosperity, to our way of living -- there are people who deny everything, people who think that the cost of change is too great. But they're wrong. Changes must be made, and that is because inaction is our greatest threat. For climate change, everything can be turned upside down. We already see how the weather changes destroy the life base of poor people in the developing world, and we know that if it continues, society as we know it can become unrecognizable. Some time ago, there was a debate in the papers about what is the issue of combat for the young generation, and I think it must be this: that we stop climate change, that we should at least be able to achieve the 2 degree target. We've done very hard things before. We have eradicated diseases. We've created technology that defines our lives in a way that was completely unimaginable to our ancestors. And in Norway, we have a joint construction work in the welfare state – a construction work that some still don't think is possible, but that stands day after day, because of our ideas and our work efforts. The climate must be part of our common construction, not only in Norway, but globally, so families around the world can continue to live their lives, continue to transport themselves to work and school, continue to warm their houses when it is called, without ruining each other's livelihoods. This is the core of what we are fighting for, the core of the policy being pursued. This is about knowledge, because climate policy must be uncompromisingly based on knowledge. That is why we are researching more new technologies, new solutions, in transport, agriculture, waste and construction – sectors that need to contribute significantly to achieving our climate goals. In the national transport plan, we have to make a significant uplift in public transport, and for bicycles and corridors in the largest cities. The record appropriations allocated to Enova by the majority of citizens are maintained and it is important to contribute to the phase-in of low-emission solutions in industry. We have also established a new investment company, which should be able to offer risk capital to help implement everything we research on climate solutions. But in the important climate work, we must not forget the classical nature protection. Classic nature protection is a value in itself. It's about us and the generations that are coming after us being able to enjoy the great nature of Norway. But it's also about climate. Biodiversity is important. It makes nature better rusted to deal with the weather changes that we know are coming. Forest and moor bind CO 2, therefore the forest protection effort is more than double. 295 forest areas have been protected since 2013. In the context of the budgetary agreement, we have the strongest forest protection budget this country has ever had. We protect ants, and we have the largest budget ever for climate and forest activity internationally. The point is that the bourgeois majority conducts an effective climate policy. Emissions are on their way down. And in a debate that can seem distant and abstract, we owe people the responsibility of getting rid of symbolism and introducing the measures that work. It's such a budget we're discussing today – a budget that takes our generation's most important fight seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1411	It has been an interesting harvest for us politicians, especially for those of us who are new on the Stortinget. Although there have been some tough discussions, there has been remarkably little noise around the budget. This suggests that the budget may be quite good, and that there is little to criticise, even for an opposition living by criticising. Many of us in this room are members of the Energy and Environment Committee, and one thing that has surprised me is the technocratic language that makes the debate for many difficult to understand. We have words and concepts like carbon capture, carbon storage, greenhouse gases, climate allowances, non-quota sector, the Paris Agreement, the 2 degree target, COP23, green certificates, LNG, CCS, NOx, CO 2, CO 2 fund, CO 2 management, IPCC, etc. These are words that warm the heart of most of us, but it goes over the head of most of the others. My experience is that there are people who will make the environmental debate difficult to understand, because at the same time you can have a monopoly on the truth and the instruments. And the truth often involves doing a fine for a sin you commit. But now it's no longer self-pipping and ten Ave Mary who's going to. Now it's a bad conscience to drive the kids to football training in a diesel car, one should be ashamed on the plane to the South, and one should shower in the dark in cold water. Just like bottling didn't make the noise in the old days, I don't think it makes the noise for the climate either. We don't have unlimited resources, and what you forget is often the obvious thing, that first you have to cut where it has the greatest effect. This is something the environmental parties in Europe have understood. When I was at COP23 a month ago and signed with the representative Haltbrecken and the representative Heggelund heard the environmental party in Germany say that they will buy Norwegian gas in the period after 2030 to shut down their coal-fired power plants – and thus would have the policy of the Progress Party to achieve its climate goals – it put the climate parties in Norway in a strange light. The climate challenge is global, and we need both global and national action. Therefore, the government is stepping up climate action in Norway, with increased allocation to Enova, the investment in liquid sea winds and a reconversion of charges to promote low- and zero-emission cars, to mention something. Many people may have noticed the cleaning work and the collection of plastic and other garbage that takes place along the Norwegian coast. I am pleased that the government is pursuing offensive policies against marine pollution and strengthening efforts. Marine litter is perhaps one of the biggest pollution and pollution challenges we're facing. We also strengthen the management of nature to take our common nature and the opportunity of future generations to unfold and experience nature. The protection of the forest is maintained at a record level. 295 forest sites have been protected since 2013. Mostly private time, voluntary protection, while the rest is publicly owned. I would also like to point out that there is an active fishing and game policy and that hunting and fishing are part of good natural experiences that promote quality of life, recreation and good health. Finally, I would like to say that Norway is on the right track to become a low-carbon society by 2050. We lie among others. in front of the EU target of 95 grams of CO 2 emissions for cars. Norway has a highly educated population, a natural advantage with a lot of water and wind power and oil and gas, as well as strong technology environments, so we have good conditions to convert to the low-carbon society in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1444	I would also like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. The climate is the greatest challenge of our time. Our common global climate change targets are making major demands on Norwegian climate policy in the future. The centre party will pursue a policy that contributes to real emissions cuts. The achievement of full-scale carbon capture and storage is essential for the world to achieve its climate objectives in 2030 and 2050. Norway has been a leading country in its efforts in this area, and our efforts are creating enormous international interest. CO 2 management is also one of the five priority areas in the Norwegian climate policy. In line with this, valuable chains have been created from the capture of the three plants – Norcem, Klemetsrud and Yara – to explore storage solutions on the base. There is a great deal of concern that we will not reach our climate commitments if the allocation is not continued. Predictability and long-term framework conditions are essential for international industrial actors to focus on the development and implementation of new technologies. Carbon capture in industry represents large investments. The draft budget to the government has created considerable uncertainty and is not an example of the predictability and long-termity that industry should expect from Norwegian authorities. In order to ensure full progress in the CCS projects, it was clear from the budgetary consultation that 360 million had to be allocated. kr. If not, the appropriations will be continued by 360 million. The risk is that work on conceptual studies and pilot projects will be stopped in the middle of work for at least six months. This creates considerable uncertainty about the willingness to realise full scale CO 2 management. So the center part is going to add 360 million. kr in the budget to continue the work on the projects. A comprehensive nature management is also important for the Centre Party. Marine spawning is a growing problem both globally and locally. It's said that in 2050 there will be more plastic than fish in the sea. Plastics lead to great suffering and death in seabirds, fish and other marine animals. The consequences here are less related to clean-up and prevention, both in the coastal zone, on the seabed and on the sea surface. The centre party wants to strengthen the effort to combat marine pollution. A comprehensive nature management must take into account both the land and the water environment. Value creation and investment in natural resources must be based on a responsible relationship with the natural diversity of our country. The management of wild game shall be part of the overall management of nature and the environment in Norway. It faces major challenges in several places in the country. The means of prevention and conflict mitigation in the management of predators cover a number of important measures, such as compensation for municipal hunting teams through harm-reduction and competence measures for hunters. Increased appropriations in this area are a necessary consequence of the government's misguided predatory policy. If management had been smart and locally anchored, the need for anti-conflict measures would have fallen considerably, and ideally we would not have had to strengthen the appropriations in this area. The centre party has today made a proposal in Stortinget, asking the government to grant permission for the Degås team, in line with the wishes of the local game teacher. This is because the stock of wolves is much higher in Norway today than the Stortinget has stated it should be. The raspberry-flock was the one who created most of the engagement around the wolf last year. It is the adjacent flock that has created the greatest challenges. It seems the government thinks the wolf zone is a sort of reserve for the wolf. It is not, and the Stortinget has repeatedly pointed out to the Environment Minister Vidar Helgesen. The Central Party therefore hopes for a majority of the Storting to follow up the Robbery Agreement and is in favour of the proposal to withdraw the disputed Slakas group, in a decision in Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1477	I want to take the opportunity to say that I think it is fun that we have a real Westerner in the Presidential chair! Taxlets themselves do not give any direction for either environmental profitability or the way forward for the petroleum industry. It seems that the government is entrusting good actors such as Enova and Innovation Norway with the development of a low-carbon society in Norway. The result might quickly be that a runner runs in different directions. Faced with technology companies, frustration is expressed at the fact that you don't quite see which direction to go. The money is there, but there is no red thread in the policy. The conversion requires a clear direction. There should no longer be any doubt as to the direction in which progress is to be made. There is a lack of leadership in the transition debate as it is conducted on the government's watch. We're privileged in Norway. We have the skills and technology to achieve most – much thanks to an active policy from when we found the oil in the 1970s. The competence and technology has long been for animals to be used in other industries. But with the fall in the oil sector, the picture has changed. The possibilities are many, and I mention some: sales of marine wind technology abroad, development of bio-based carbon capture and storage, zero-emission solutions in industry, construction of emission-free ships for the carriage of goods and electrification of the base. We now need to give priority to the measures that move us to the low-carbon society. I hope the government's government hears what the Storting today says about just this. If we use the policy's opportunities to achieve the climate objectives we have set ourselves, we will succeed in both climate objectives and policy. We can meet the ambitious goal of becoming a low-carbon society. Without such a connection, I have difficulty seeing how it will be possible in a way that maintains both a strong economy and a good welfare offer for everyone. We know that after rain comes sun. The storm in which the oil industry has been and is partly involved requires a clear policy of conversion for a green shift in Norway. The West has stood by him, the storm, also earlier. And there are good opportunities for this shift to become a new sunrise, but then there is a need for a clearer policy from those who run the country. Today it is the Right and Advance Party. Even when the 2-degree target is to be achieved, significant quantities of oil and gas will be needed. Last week I was at Gassco's, where it was said clearly about the need for energy in the future. Only the increase in electricity consumption in China up to 2040 corresponds to the current consumption in the United States. The working party is both technology optimists and innovation optimists on behalf of the future on Norwegian pedestal – let there be no doubt about it. For AS Norway, this could mean that our main industry will be able to contribute both employment and technology development and contribute heavily to the treasury for decades to come. I'll end up with a little paradox. State Council Søviknes spoke at Statoil’s Winter Conference and spoke from the pulpit to the oil industry as if nothing were going to change in the future. The next speaker, the director of the IEA, said the opposite. Everyone knows who I heard the most. More than ever, we need elected representatives who think big things, and who put politics behind their minds. No one knows for sure what's going to happen in the future, but two things we know, and I end up with: the world needs more energy, and the emissions have to go down.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1498	Norway shall become a low-carbon society without becoming a low-income society. The Paris Agreement commits both Norway and the world much more than before, and we have to take the consequences of that. We know that from the end of the 1800s until today, it's released about 2100 gigatons of CO2. A little bit simplified means that we have, 'give or take', 20 years again until the 2 degree budget is exhausted. In parallel with that, we will create new jobs and ensure Norwegian value creation and well-being. For climate change we are now facing, changing more than weather. They change society, and they affect our economy. We are in a new phase of climate policy. It is no longer just about ambitions and beautiful words, but about real commitments that we as a nation have assumed through the Paris Agreement. We have a favourable economic base in Norway. We often come back to that. But the economic space is getting smaller in the future. The growth of oil revenue in the State budget is less than before, and economic growth must be more taken from other parts of the economy than from oil and gas activities. So we don't have to change just for the sake of the climate; we also need it to ensure economic sustainability. Although many of us are both climate hippies and green idealists, a collection of all the world's idealists will not be able to draw this transformation alone. We have to bring with us the capitalists, because capital is the driver of the green shift. It's only when idealists and capitalists go in the same direction that we really get to something. That's why we have, among other things, Enova has been strongly strengthened and has produced results. It has helped Hydro on Karmøy to produce the world's cleanest and most climate-friendly aluminium. It has helped to transform Biokraft in Forest waste and by-products from industry and fish farming into renewable and climate-friendly fertilisers and biofuels. It has contributed to the melting plant in Tyssedal taking on used technology that reduces CO 2 emissions corresponding to 15 000 cars. We're on the right track. The government's ambition for at least one new CO 2 full-scale management project remains firm. We have put in place a ban on the use of fossil oil for heating construction, we have put forward a green competitiveness strategy, we have developed a new and greener law on public procurement, and in NTP there is a significant climate and environmental promise – this just to mention something. Today, there is one thing I am particularly pleased about, because today the start of what can become a new Norwegian adventure at sea. We are on the verge of a revolution, and ‘revolution’ is not a word that the Right People often use. But offshore wind power is already a great and growing industry. Our neighbours around the North Sea have contributed to the rapid development of bottom-based wind technology. In the case of liquid wind, we haven't gotten the same distance, but the market potential is very large, because it opens up the development of deeper water. The government has already taken several steps to strengthen the competitiveness of businesses, but now there are two things that are really going to contribute. One is that Enova will have an aid scheme for a demonstration project for liquid sea winds and, as the Council of State said, the government will open one to two areas for wind at sea. For Norwegian maritime and offshore industries, this is an important signal to really bet. The Norwegian coast is perfect for floating sea winds. We have a unique competence that is highly transferable after many years of oil and gas operations. Today is a brand day, and even though there is no wind here in Oslo, it does not end in Norway with the first. I would like to congratulate everyone on the first step towards a future in which Norway gets even more wind in the sails.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1522	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1527	Climate change is leading to more rainfall, more heavy rainfall and extreme weather. So we must be prepared for more frequent floods and escapes. The NVE has an important task of identifying risks and preventing and limiting damage caused by flooding and slipping as a consequence of, among other things. climate change. It is important that NVE Facilities have staff with the right experience and competence to advise municipalities and entrepreneurs and to assist in planning. Many municipalities have not carried out danger zone monitoring and can benefit from NVE in land planning to ensure against the risks associated with slip and floods in watercourses. In December 2016, the NVE submitted a report stating that today’s level of funding does not allow many hedging projects to be implemented at this stage. Furthermore, the NVE suggests that increased appropriations could lead to a reduction in the cost to society of floods and events, both direct costs of repairing buildings and infrastructure and the consequent cost of infrastructure disruptions and reduced costs to society as a result of fewer life losses in events. In addition to this, we know that many people who live and live in flood and racially exposed areas feel a great deal of uncertainty and fear. It is therefore incomprehensible that the government and the cooperation parties choose to cut off grants for flood and scrap prevention. All experience shows that it is wiser and cheaper to prevent damage rather than to repair damage in retrospect. This is confirmed and well documented in the Swedish public investigation SOU 2007:60, where the costs of preventing road damage and bridges due to pace, race, degradation and flooding were estimated to be about four times lower than that of repair. The need for increased appropriations and their impact is well documented. Therefore, the Workers' Party wanted to increase the appropriations for measures against floods and to step up its alternative state budget by 158.9 million. kr. The NVE has an important role to play in managing water resources and domestic energy resources in a holistic and forward-looking way and in climate adaptation and flood prevention and migration prevention. I would therefore like the gap between the budget and the needs to be less, which would also be with the increase of 158.9 million. kr included in the Workers' Party's proposal for an alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1542	We were given local management of the protected areas in 2010. The local governments of Norway have helped to change the attitude of the protection of cheese lids and access prohibited to welcome them, and this makes it possible to increase local value creation in relation to national parks. The Directorate for the Environment has spent a lot of money on a new brand and visit strategy, but it is not in the Directorate-General for the Environment’s value creation. The value creation and the good experiences are out in the national park municipalities, in the business community, in forward visiting centres, such as the Nordland National Park Centre and the Norwegian mountain centre of Lom. The centre party sees that the bet has to be turned to the local level by both major efforts on municipalities, regional development funds and increased grants to local information centres. Then we'll get a better balance and protection through use. I am personally very happy with the simple outdoor life and have spent the night in tents in the protection areas of Northern Ireland for all the months of the year. The best holiday is camping in the mountains. But the national parks are not wild. In my county, Northern Ireland, they are also pastures, and there is reason to have great concern about grazing, especially the reindeer, in Northern and Troms. In these states, the access to calves after losses is down to 40 pst. It's the lowest in Norway. At the same time, the pure is in very good condition. The carcass weight of bulls between one and two years is highest in Sami domestic farming, and both the county of Northernland and the predatory game topic in Northernland believe that the pressure on grazing industry must decrease. Then we also need to be able to initiate exceptional measures. I am very pleased that the Senterpartiet wants to increase the grant for predatory game measures by 20 million. kr and increase the compensation for grazing animals by 8 million. kr, because reindeer operations are particularly under pressure, and in the Nordic countries we have both southern Sami, northern Sami and lulesamian reindeer operations. Southern reindeer and lulesamic reindeer are minorities in the minority, and it is very important that we now get the grip that makes them able to cope. Helicopter take-offs are very difficult, so more people are needed to operate helicopter take-offs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1553	This is a declaration of love, a declaration of love to the cry, the rich, good and incorruptible scream. Skreien is the Norwegian-Arctic cod, which every winter makes a spawning tour from the Barents Sea to the coast of Northland. About 40 pst. by the creeping slut in the Lofoten area. Lofot fishing is the most important seasonal fishery in Norway, and since the Viking Age, lovot fishing has had a major impact on the region and on the food supply and economy of the country as a whole. For example, Bergen was built on dry fish from Lofoten, and this fish stood for a period of 90 pst. of Norwegian exports. It is a renewable resource that has been the foundation for housing and industrial development in my part of the country for millennia and has created thousands of jobs and provided rich food on the table to millions of people around the world. Today, the fish is Norway’s second largest export industry. The sea outside Lofoten and the Western Sea is unique — it is undisputable — and Norway is responsible for managing these natural resources in these marine areas. The oil industry represents a serious threat to these renewable natural values. Seismic shooting scares the fish, damages eggs and larvae, and disturbs the marine environment. On the narrow continental shelf outside the Lofoten, the West and Senja there is no room for both the oil industry and fishing. Oil activity must be at the expense of fisheries. Pollution of the fishing grounds and the risk of major emissions are significant and concern both the Petroleum Authority, the Directorate-General for Fisheries and the Institute for Marine Research. It should worry many more, not least the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Labour Party. Despite the Paris Agreement, Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions are increasing. Norwegian oil and gas production is the main reason why Norwegian emissions have not fallen. The first and simplest Norway can do is not open new fields, and it is obvious that we need to start with just Lofoten, the Western Pole and Senja.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1569	I have a vision, a vision of a world in which we live as independent and conscious people, reaping and wounding, consumer and sank, managing and improving the resources we have. This is achieved through clear, conscious and effective governance. What separates us from the other creatures on the globe are just our values. Even I started in politics with the desire to be a part of saving the world. I'm optimistic. But as researcher Jan Ivar Bothnan at the Swedish Defence Research Institute said at the Center Party Emergency Seminar yesterday: The world cannot be saved unless everyone saves the world. We have several keys to unlock locked doors in front of us. One of them is that we need to spread knowledge and build skills. The attitude of the Education and Research Committee, together with good comments from the Committee on Energy and the Environment, contributes to this. Another key is to recognise success stories that other countries should be able to copy and implement, such as the mortgage scheme and the garbage management. We have to assume that waste is a resource and an input factor back into the cycle. A third key is how industry has responded with technology, robotization, energy efficiency and saving, making companies competitive in the world market. A fourth key is how the environment and health are to underpin sound and ethical food production and energy extraction on local premises. These measures are more responsible for, yet the action fund is a successful instrument the Centre will have more of them, without the government being equally offensive. Locally, we can celebrate that the Committee has formed a majority with the Centre Party in order to lift municipal environmental work with incentives for wastewater and the aquatic environment. I am pleased that environmental-conscious and forward-looking municipalities can take this into account. What is missing is recovery. Here the Council of State answers me that there are more regulations and agreements with objectives. But I want to work for even more initiatives and even tougher goals. At the same time, both understanding and action on predatory challenges is lacking from the Right — how it is literally to tear apart the livelihood that has been built up. I want to remind you that several revolutions and wars historically started with just food shortages. And when red-listed species are brought forward, the decline in grazing animals is one of the greatest challenges we have. The centre batch will focus on «ourist» food from capable agronomists and seafood producers, recycled raw materials and renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1590	There are two really major challenges to be faced in the field under debate today. Climate change is one thing, the loss of biodiversity is another. Both parties put politicians to a serious test. How brave are we? Who dares think forward? Who can stand with straight back when the children's tribunal is set? That our globe has a fever, that we are unable to achieve a 2 degree target with the measures notified by the countries of Paris, is quite obvious. We simply have to take stronger action, and it has to be done now – not delayed, not pushed on. The other thing that's equally serious is that half of the world's animal populations have disappeared since I was 20 years old, i.e. about 20 years old. 40 years. Two thirds of the population are gone in a few years. Do you want to fuck with that? There is one species – we humans – that is behind the threat to both the climate and the eradication of all the other species. But there's also one single species that can do something about it: our own. We can do as the world's largest bird without flying ability – you know who I'm thinking about: then we don't see the problems. But it should be done not to see how the ice disappears around Svalbard, and not see the increasing number of storms and the shorter winters. Here at home, a person can do something about the loss of land and species. We can step up – do not cut down on – support for work on endangered species and habitat types. We can increase the appropriations for registrations, i.e. for ecological base maps. We can escalate the protection of the old forest etc. Most seriously for this sector, it was enough to transfer appeals from the Ministry of Climate and Environment to the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation, to the wing clipping department of the State Department by asking for fewer objections, etc. I strongly advise against supporting the proposal of the Centre Party to take out the wolf in the Lagoon, an incredible suggestion of instruction, which violates international agreements, the Nature Diversity Act and other legislation. So this is in addition to the two flocks that the authorities have decided to set up. There's nothing special about this one flock, it behaves like wolves should. I myself have worked with this flock many times in my old profession, and I probably know this species better than most people here in the hall. Finally, I would like to say that Norway is probably very soon the country in Europe that has fewer wolves – if we ignore the Vatican State.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1603	The main question we should ask ourselves in this debate is whether Norway is on track to cut 40 pst. by 2030. The response is clear from the State budget submitted and from what is now agreed for 2018. The answer is no. So the second question is, can we refer it to the last four years? Then the answer is yes, we can. There are four lost climate years that lie behind us. Regardless of how proud the Right Party and the Advance Party are trying to produce and produce their climate work, the four lost climate years are behind us. There is every reason to question the initiative of the government in the previous period. I don't remember a single climate initiative that the government took on its own. Nor can I remember that at any time in the course of four years the government has received praise and recognition for its climate policy – on the contrary. There has been quite a resurrection every time the government has done something, and especially when they have submitted their state budgets. The strongest critic on behalf of the climate of the budgets submitted has been the Left. They've been walking around in the hiking hall with tears in their eyes, not out of joy, but out of anger. That's the reality of the last four years. Then it's like they don't stop to surprise themselves with their unforeseeables when they present the state budgets. It's getting pretty predictable that there's something unpredictable in it. There are several things in this state budget that are unpredictable. One of the things you have to put a really big question mark on is carbon capture and storage, that they're not even able to make a predictability that we're going to do this. But it may not be so strange, as long as it is the oil and energy minister who is responsible for this. He may be less concerned with the climate than anyone else in the government. It is the same for sea wind: if a dream is that sea wind will become a bet area in Norway, it is perhaps the wrong department to decide in a way the development of sea wind. The purpose of the Ministry of Oil and Energy is to keep energy prices relatively low or to favour what is already on the market. There are many issues related to the budget that have now been presented. One last comment I would like to address to the Left is that the Left and Workers' Party have actually been very burdened and broken into a question related to the landfill of hazardous waste. There, Ola Elvesuen and Left have been very clear that the municipalities are in charge of the area. He said that last April, when he visited Grenland and was very clear. He said clearly that he and the Left cannot overrule local democracy. I very much agree with Ola Elvestuen, and I hope that he will also be entering government negotiations and possibly into government thinking that it is the local self-government that needs to be raw in terms of landfill.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1616	There are many small and big things in this case. I'll take up a little bit of a matter, but that's great for those debts, and great for the natural disaster. The representative of Saudland thought there were few conflicts in this year's budget. It may be if you're in the committee room here on the house, but for those who're out and working hard in Hardanger to rock the wilderness, it's dramatic enough. The situation in Hardangerfjord has long been demanding. The local conditions in fjords have led to major challenges for the farming industry for anadrom salmonids such as wildfish and sea urchins. There are discussions about the reason why wild salmon and sea urchins have had such dramatic developments. There may be several reasons, but the consensus is that the growth of the farming industry is an important part of the challenge. If the farming industry is to develop further, we must ensure that the wild species does not suffer damage. The only thing that's agreeable in Hardanger is that it's crucial to take care of the wild and sea animals. There are many local fireplaces in Hardanger that have been on to rock the wild axis and establish a re-bank in Hardanger. They've had challenges in collecting enough stem fish. Unfortunately, in practice, the 2017 budget will put an end to the work on a re-banking. If the collection cannot be completed, it will be tragic for the wild axis. The challenge of finding fish without involving farmed fish makes it urgent to collect enough so that a viable strain can be secured. We're content to get to this. If we postpone it until 2019, we may risk losing all the work that has been collected. I'm actually expecting that there's no room here. I wonder that the Left, with Terje Breivik, who knows this case well, and who has worked and said he will secure a re-bank in Hardanger, does not care that this is done. It is also a paradox to me that in other work on aquatic environmental measures it seems important to collect work more and more centralised. We have to let the municipalities take this, who know what the local conditions are, and who know what needs and works the most. Finally, I see that part of the game, among other things. SV, have been so busy protecting more so that we can take care of our nature. I would have liked them to be equally concerned with resilient use, where one actually takes care of many more species. By being able to have an active grazing diet, active use, produces many more species than only wolves.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1631	The value of oil, coal and gas has fallen in recent years. Norway's economy will become increasingly vulnerable if we continue to lean so heavily on the oil and gas industry. As mentioned earlier in the debate, in a short time, the Stortinget will be asked about the development of the Johan Castberg field for consideration. The economic effects are far too poorly investigated. What happens to the profitability of this field in a world that is going to achieve its climate goals and free itself from fossil energy? Today, the government alone is dealing with all the expansions that cost less than $20 billion. kr. It is irresponsible, at least when we have an oil and energy minister who has as slogans that now we have to run on a bit of oil policy. Therefore, SV has today made proposals to lower the limit, in order to ensure that much more of the oil and gas projects proposed will be dealt with in the Stortinget. Then we can have a real debate about them in the light of the climate turmoil, and we can make sure that they are well figured out before you decide whether to drive a little bit or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1640	If we are to address the climate challenges, which are absolutely necessary for the world that Norway is contributing to, Norway must contribute to the exploitation of the rich natural resources we have throughout the country. It doesn't last to solve the climate problems that people bike to their office in Oslo, one has to make sure that people have the opportunity to live and work throughout the country. Then a few of the centralizations that the government that is sitting today has had to take a step forward. On the contrary, one must provide services close to people, ensure that people can live and live good lives all over Norway, and strengthen industries based on managing new renewable natural resources. We have to make sure that people have the opportunity to have their work in agriculture, grazing and fishing and in the management of energy resources, to mention something. We need to have a better economy in these industries, and we also need to ensure increased value creation related to new, renewable solutions. This includes, among other things: important, as the Central Party has proposed, to have a green investment company, which brings us from fossil solutions to renewable solutions. We need to increase value creation in Norway and green value chains. We need to refurbish. There are many good solutions in Norway. There are also many good research projects, there is a lot of good work being done. But one of the challenges is commercialization, getting it out on a full scale. In that case, such a green investment company would be an important instrument. So to CO 2 funds for business transport, in which the Centre Party is calling for progress. I note that, in a reply earlier today, the committee chairman was unable to give any status as to how it was working, one year after the decision was taken. It's not reliable. Here one has to move forward. Then it's putting money on the table by the country's side an important part of the work. The Central Party proposes 1 billion. kr to a CO 2 business transport fund, which will help to bring in new solutions in the area of heavy transport, to develop technology and to provide charging stations, for example. It's such practical solutions that help bring us forward, instead of believing that the world is being brought forward with some ear extra on the fuel price. I am also extremely disappointed that one has no pressure on CO 2 capture and storage. When the Left presented its alternative budget, it was absolutely essential to put 310 million on the table. kr. This is the heart of the Center Party. Unfortunately, in the budget agreement there is no trace of it. You should have done something about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1658	In February 2016, I went up to Engebøjellet in Naustdal near Fördefjorden and linked myself to a drilling rig. It also did about 100 others during those weeks. We hooked ourselves up because Nordic Mining has been allowed to dump 250 million tons of mine lamb right in the national salmon fjord of Fördefjorden. It is equivalent to dumping 11 tonnes of mining sludge in fjords every minute, 24 hours a day, for 50 years to come. The marine research institute was clear that this could destroy life in the fjord, the Environment Directorate, before being politically instructed to take other considerations, the local population does not want it, and the United Kingdom's leading professor of marine natural management summarized it all in the following: ‘This plan is madness. It's like returning to the 1700s." I was carried down and fined by the police, along with the other activists. But the fight for pure Norwegian fjords continues, both for Fördefjorden and for Repparfjord in Finnmark, which will be the next blow. But the political question we have to ask ourselves is: why is this old-fashioned landfill facility used in Norway? It's just us, Turkey, Papua New Guinea, Indonesia and the Philippines who practice it. Some reason is that marine landfills are often the cheapest — but also the most environmentally damaging — of the different ways to do so. But, fortunately, there are alternatives, such as the recovery of mining waste for use in cement or in roof tiles or the return of residues to mines. But it rarely pays off, compared to dumping in the feathers. That's what SV wants to do. That is why, in our alternative state budget, we propose a tax on the dumping of mining waste at NOK 50 per tonne. It will make choosing environmentally harmful landfills less profitable and more profitable, for example. the recovery of the mining waste. There will be a win-win situation for a more resource-exploiting industry and for the environment. The mining industry can become an even more important industry for value creation in Norway in the future. That's what SV would like to welcome. But we have to make sure to build an industry that pays off for the local population and for the environment, an industry that not only pays off for the owners and managers of Nordic Mining on Aker Bridge – a long-term industry that manages natural resources in a sensible way. Until that happens, I and hundreds of other activists are ready with the links to fight for the local population and clean Norwegian fjords.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1674	I want to talk a little bit about an area that I wasn't much into in my main post, namely water – water both as an energy source and as a source of life. Water is one of Norway’s most important natural resources and is also an important habitat for many key species. As many as 260 aquatic species are endangered in Norway. Then we need a policy to take better care of and, not least, to restore these areas. Norway has clear commitments to pan-European aquatic environmental objectives, and next year will be an important year, since the regional management plans will then be launched and reported to ESA. At the same time, we feel that the government has sent to consult a proposal that shifts authority from local and regional water authorities to state level, despite the fact that research carried out by the Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research shows that water management in Norway is successful, with municipalities and county municipalities as central actors and with the Planning and Building Act as a central law. A break-off from the Law on Planning and Building and a change from regional to state governance will reduce the transfer of cooperation and knowledge, reduce the impact and be likely to run counter to the goal of increased regional governance, which the government otherwise preaches on a large scale, both inside and outside this hall. The review by the National Audit Office has also pointed out that critical aspects relating to water management are not those of local and regional authorities but of national authorities. The point is that a better aquatic environment is created locally, and it is largely local wastewater treatment plants that need to take a large part of the burden of action. I am therefore pleased that a majority of the committee is asking the government to provide incentives for the sewerage sector. We know that cities and towns have major problems with sewerage, and there's going to be a very big boost if the entire cost side is to be flipped over to the subscribers. So here we actually need government drag help. The second thing I want to say is about water. It's about hydropower. It has been an important principle in Norway that the values should be allocated and that those with the burden should also retain some of these values. The proposal on interest on capitalisation departs from the good tradition. The central party therefore proposes to downgrade the capitalisation rate from 4,5 pst. to 3 pst. to provide predictability for the municipalities hosting the resource. In addition, there is an incurrency in such a way that the Centre Party has not been included in the comment on page 20 of the vote, from the Christian People's Party, SV and the Green Party, on a national knowledge centre in Sogn and Fjordane. So I'm asking the Storting to notice it too.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1689	Then Stortinget has noticed it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1694	While others have worked on budgets and remarks, the Minister for the Environment has been travelling to the United Nations Environment Assembly in Nairobi, and at home in the suitcase, on Norway's initiative, he had a global goal of putting plastic emissions in the world ocean. There were about 100 Environment Ministers from around the world who attended this meeting. The quail that was blamed on land in the Mountain Municipality of Hordaland gave us a serious wake-up. World ocean exploration is one of the fastest increasing environmental problems facing the world, and strong international efforts are urgently needed. The plastic that floats around the world oceans, drifts up on our beaches and crumbs up to microplastics, as a fin in living organisms in the sea. Such a goal must be international. We do not win this game alone. The decision on zero vision, which was now taken in Nairobi on the initiative of Norway, for plastics in the sea is bold and is a breakthrough against marine pollution. Nevertheless, we have a job to do nationally and locally to clean up what's already floating around in the oceans and when we're on our beaches. That's through the negotiations in the budget, with a total of 65 million. kr for work on marine litter, and SEK 5 million. These shall be used for the archipelago service, which organises a large apparatus of volunteers, teams and organisations to clean up our beaches. Keeping Norway clean and the Outdoor Councils are important actors in this work, in order to organise the whole resource of volunteers who want to contribute. The established archipelago service covers the coastline from the Swedish border to Hordaland. In the budget there are also means to establish services also north of Hordaland, and there are several processes in progress around this. The government party, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, sees the value of intensifying this work until we have achieved the overarching goal of halting plastic emissions in the world's oceans.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1707	The finest word I know about is not «oil», although I am both happy in the Olympics and a pronounced yes-man. The finest word I know about is free-air life. It is composed of ‘free’, ‘air’ and ‘life’ — the main indicators for living a good life. Going from cabin to cabin on Hardangervidda is perhaps the best decoupling you can get. Even I've grown up in a carrier and lay in the lynchheia and eaten saturated with blueberries. I hope more people will have a chance to do that. The working party believes that outdoors provide good experiences, increased well-being, physical activity and good public health. It is therefore important that we establish that the open air areas are organised and managed in such a way that they are made available to all. The Labour Party believes that both camp schools and the natural school bag are important measures to increase children’s and young people’s knowledge of the environment, outdoor life and sustainable development. The voluntary organisations are thus an important facilitator of precisely this. It is therefore strange when the representative, Tina Bru, claims in a previous reply that precisely these organisations have not been cut off in their appropriations. They have. They have not been compensated for wage and price adjustment in their 2018 government budget proposals. The government, with the Right and the Advance Party at its head, is adding up to this very thing. It can't be called anything but cut. It would have been nice if the Council of State could explain whether the organisations should cut either in activity or in compensation of employees. The Nordic Council of Ministers is also concerned with non-governmental organisations, and when our Prime Minister and the other Nordic Council of Ministers examined the report ‘Trust – Nordic gold’ in the autumn, they were advised to support the voluntary sector. Not least, the report stressed the need for a financial approach. Then the smallest size can expect the government to add up to an ordinary price and salary adjustment. It's not an increase. It's not a bet. But it's at least to keep it at today's level. It goes without saying that cutbacks to non-governmental organisations such as Nature and Youth and the Federation of Nature Conservation have to be taken somewhere, and they are the ones who suffer from government policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1721	The world is screaming for energy. There is a huge growth in demand for energy and electricity due to population growth and a much-wanted increase in living standards in poor parts of the world. India's growing electricity demand will be equivalent to an entire United States. The International Energy Agency reports that Norway should continue its policy of developing oil and gas resources, both because the oil and gas sectors are very economical, because they are produced with relatively low emissions, and because they are important for Europe’s security of supply. It's the demand that controls how much energy is produced in the world. Renewable energy will be cheaper and will have a large growth in the future, but even in the 2-degree scenario, 70 million barrels of oil are needed each day, and the question is whether there will be Norway or countries in Africa with higher emissions participating in this value creation. The Johan Castberg expansion will give 130 billion dollars. 30 years of production and employment for 47 000 people. The value creation in this industry is so great that no matter how you illustrate it, it seems incredible to understand. I'll be careful to say that all parties here need our policies to afford their own. The Johan Sverdrup field becomes Norway's next gold mine. It can produce economically with an oil price of less than $20 the barrel and with only 5 pst. emissions compared to the world average. Then SV has to answer why they want to say no to this expansion, even if emissions would increase. The Progress Party also wants Norway to contribute to the reduction of global greenhouse gas emissions. But we're concerned about the results, not of symbolic things and nice statistics or of securing Norwegian politicians better consciences around the world. We will help to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, not just shift them. The United Kingdom is the country in Europe which has cut emissions the most because it has replaced polluting coal with Norwegian gas. Last year, half of the coal power generation in the United Kingdom was replaced by gas power. As a result, CO 2 emissions from power generation were reduced by 25 million tonnes of CO 2, about half of the total CO 2 emissions throughout Norway. At the same time, we are actually discussing whether there are passenger cars in Norway and the way people get to work, which is the problem and the crucial thing about whether the world survives or not. And still many want climate policy to be primarily about harassing people and giving them a bad conscience to go on vacation or at work or to buy a car they've wanted for a long time. There are parties and representatives in this room who want the oil industry to be finished as soon as possible – not for economic reasons, but for political reasons. Yes, of course we should bet on other industries and support everyone who wants to start new jobs. I'm also going to admit that if we get a cheaper and better form of energy, I'm going to cheer for it. But we don't have that today. For the sake of climate, it is of all parties in this House that the Green Party should fight hard to ensure that as much of the world's oil and gas as possible had a New Norway stamp on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1749	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1754	I understand that it has been difficult to get support for a proper climate risk assessment of the Johan Castberg field. The representative Tina Bru said earlier today that the Environment Directorate did not have the competence to assess the wider social aspects of the Johan Castberg field. Well, then I expect that the Right and Government will also disregard the wider social assessment of the maritime landfill in Fördefjorden and Repparfjorden.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1759	As expected, there has been much recognizable criticism of the government and the budget of the cooperation parties from the opposition here today, and even the representative of Aasland has been involved in the debate. Maybe he misses the time in the Energy and Environment Committee? In that case, we appreciate it -- it gets the temperature up. But I've been thinking a lot about the criticism of the Workers' Party in particular. It sounds like we're not doing anything, they've got huge plans, and if they had been able to conduct their climate policy, everything would have been so much better. I went into the Workers' Party's alternative budget to see what it is they're making that is going to be the big difference whether or not to bet on climate policy. What they are making is building charging stations across the country, investing in sustainable biofuels, building electric ferries, facilitating shore-side electricity in ports, strengthening rail investment, introducing carbon budgeting, investing in CCS, strengthening marine wind deployment, strengthening Enova, establishing CO 2 funds and getting a better environmental technology system. This is almost like reading our own draft budget. All of these measures are things that we are either in the process of, or have started a long time ago and are starting to target. I would like to remind you that it is the civil climate policy that has led us to overfill the ambitions of the climate agreement on the financing of Enova by nearly 18 billion. kr. That's what makes it, for example. bet on and build charging stations around the country. This means that there has been a major investment in land-based electricity – more than 340 million have been allocated since 2016. kr to expand land flow, to mention something completely concrete. It could be fun to go into many of these things, but also the stakes on CCS are something that we all agree on. So the representative Else-May Botten said earlier today that she was thinking about how the Christmas celebration was going to be in 2030. I hope they're not going to sit there and discuss the CCS bet of this government in that Christmas dinner, and I think she'll never do that when we get there. The working party increases the taxes and charges by 8 billion. kr in their option. Nevertheless, the working party's ability to prioritise in the climate and environment, which is to be the big, decisive difference between us and them, is a few hundred million extra dollars to the environmental technology system, Enova, CCS, and among others. Elffers. It is well and good, but the fact that there should be the difference between a totally inconclusive climate policy and the perfect one is a little bit difficult to take seriously. Then I just have to refer to a correction in the suspension of the decision here today until the end of the day. This applies to Chapter 2490. It should therefore read ‘6 Regulatory Fund’, not ‘5 Regulatory Fund’. Otherwise, the allocation is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1777	Then it's registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1782	These included: The representative of Aasland, who made me take the floor again. He was talking about the lost year of the last landfill period. At least from the left, the last peak period has been four years with penetration, in particular within the climate area, whether it is the major breakthrough in the national transport plan, with the collective and rail effort there, the energy message, where we were given the goal of selling only zero-emission vehicles from 2025, or there are additional climate-side objectives, both in the national transport plan and in the climate notification. We have put in place a climate law that regulates the work between accumulation and government in the future with a completely different systematic approach. If there is something we have needed in the work on climate change in Norway, there is more systematics in the job we are going to do in the future. And there is a consensus that we should have the measures and the reductions with the EU. In addition, the budget units, which have added new measures every year – maintaining a zero-emission rate, phase-in of biofuels, have 30 pst. public procurement weightings. In the area by region, new decisions will be taken. The position of Norway within the CCS bet must be continued. The next big discussion in Stortinget is when this comes to Stortinget in the course of the year. I am sure that the bet will continue until then. That's where the decision has to be made on what are the next steps. Sea wind must also be clarified in the future, whether it is with demonstration facilities – which we now want to have a decision, which will allow us to move on – or there are opportunities towards the oil and gas sectors. I would also like to say something about the other aspects of the climate and environmental budget. One thing is marine littering, we mentioned that. That's where we have to move on. This has to be made much more concrete, more than just that there's cleanup along the beaches. Here, we have to work backwards and systematically in the years ahead. Then I want to mention classical nature protection. It was the representative of Aukrust who presented cuts in government budgets. The truth is that it is the fifth consecutive year that a budget adopted in the Stortinget is a strengthening of classical nature protection. And then it's in all areas, whether it's water, logging, forest protection, endangered species or the other areas within this field. Finally, I would like to stress that much of the climate work is international and national, but it is also motivating locally. To maintain the aid to the municipalities of 150 million. kr is important and needs to be seen in the context of all the measures delegated in the last four years in order to give more space for action locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1797	The representative of Halleland from the Advance Party was engaged in shipping, and I am very pleased about that. He said there was a broad interest in this in Stortinget. That's right, but what's the interest? Is it from the whole value chain? Is it from sailor to shipowner? And does it have to do with greenhouse gas emissions? The policy of the Progress Party is interesting to look at in that context. The Minister of Finance, who comes from the Progress Party, removed the exemption from the CO 2 tax, which contributes to the increased use of LNG. It is an important starting point for a better climate, and it is important that we have a business that can build a domestic market so that we can succeed internationally in that area. The Minister for Transport, from the Progress Party, has climate objectives in his NTP bet, with 50 pst. reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. But when he has the opportunity to do something, he's too weak. With regard to the offer of the coastal route, only climate targets are set for the absence of heavy oil and diesel to be 25 pst. emissions cut and land flow where possible shall be used. These are the things you can do when the tender starts, and you should have much greater ambitions by 2030. The same state council has said that we need to renew the near-ship fleet and provide incentives for a wreck order. Unfortunately, this industry has not been successful – there have been no results, and there are few applicants for it. The same applies to the Minister of Economic Affairs, from the Right, who pursues a policy of flagging Norwegian seafarers, among others. from Color Line, and challenges a system, which I think you should stay too good at. In the case of the oil price drop, which made it difficult for our oil and energy workers, it was difficult for the government to take action and take action. It took a long time. LO and NHO were about to force the government to make changes to the law on permitting, and then a package of measures for the South and West. It took a long time. There was a Where the other three billion. kr was off, is not good to say. In the case of land-flow bets, we have challenged the Minister of Transport on what is planned there. He shows that it's Enova who's responsible. It's very little political leadership and it's hard to figure out what kind of progress plan you have for it. When it comes to building electric ferries, county councils have been much more offensive in terms of emissions than state councils when they have opportunities to do something.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1817	Repeatedly from this pulpit we've heard about green growth, and every time I jumped a little bit, because I'm a professional for Green Growth at BI and have been researching for many years what the term means. So I thank you for the challenge of the Progress Party to say that the Greens are in favour of energy development, because we are. We are in favour of a rapid build-up of the forms of energy that, at the same time, provide much better use of resources. There are two main forms of growth. One is gray, and there is no real, rapid decoupling of emissions, so when the growth rises, the emissions also rise. In the case of a real green growth, emissions start to decline as value added rises. An absolute or sufficient disconnection of the value creation/emission ratio is called. What about Norway? I have studied the OECD's green growth indicators, and they are very clear that Finland, Sweden and Denmark are well above the OECD average to improve value creation while reducing emissions. They've done that in a lot of ways. They have improved their industry with energy efficiency – wind power in Denmark, district heating, biofuels and bioheating in Sweden. In many ways they have had a green growth strategy that has been implemented. In Norway, we are well below the OECD average for green growth, and there are two main reasons for this. One is that the energy efficiency of the oil and offshore sector has been too low — it is not increasing rapidly enough and emissions are not falling sufficiently. So the ratio of the two are still gray. The other has been in the car sector. Many researchers internationally have seen how fast this disconnection must be in order for growth to be really green. Here's the challenge for everyone sitting in this room: Norway can take part in a green growth, and not just talk about green growth, if we make sure that we get a 5 pst. or more – preferably 6-7 pst. – improvement of the ratio of value added to emissions per year. That's what's calculated as a necessary minimum of people like Nicholas Stern, with New Climate Economy Report, Jeffrey Sachs, with Deep Decarbonization Pathways Project, and PriceWaterHouseCoopers. If Norway wants to deliver on all the green talk about green growth, we can easily check if we do. We can set targets and follow them up. We need to have at least 5 pst. improvement at national level. We haven't done that so far. So to my dear colleagues – if you want to be in line with international research on this, I hope that both the parties and the government will commit themselves to having a real green growth every year by 2050. We can then deliver both on climate and on welfare for the Norwegian population and maintain jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1832	It's approaching the end -- so what can we draw out of this debate? First of all, we have a climate-sceptic party on the Stortinget. It is called the Centre Party, and everyone – young and old, women as men – believes that the most important thing we can discuss in the budget debate on energy and the environment is wolf – not climate, only wolf, wolf, wolf. That's all. It reminds me of the election campaign of the Green Party, because the Green Party had a promise in the election campaign: they should not have any government cooperation with the Progress Party. No well – but the Progress Party, together with the rest of the civil majority, is involved in pursuing an offensive climate policy that has led to a decline in emissions in Norway. They do not want to cooperate with the Green Party, but they would like to cooperate with the climate skeptics of the Central Party, who in this debate are standing on the pulpit and hoarse about important climate action in this country's major cities. That's what they want. Perhaps the Green Party should go on its own. SV's petroleum rhetoric has fallen completely through. After a harvest in which the representatives Haltbrecken and Kaski have tried to raise a debate on Goliath, it became quite clear today that they are actually just attacking themselves. On direct questions about what they could do differently, how they would handle the follow-up to their own proposal, their own comments and their own decision – how they would follow up on it differently – there was no answer, just air and excuses – nothing. It's completely broken through. And so it's the Workers' Party, which has made repeated repeats of friendships in the budget debate today until the parties they'd like to have a good relationship with now that they can no longer claim to be Norway's largest party, and which has been waving over important issues in the field of the environment and energy throughout the whole harvest, among other things. in the case of petroleum – best friend of the petroleum industry one day, the other day end of early contracts in the PUDs. We can't have any of that anymore. We now have a bourgeois majority that reinforces climate policy, with a national transport plan that prioritises climate, and a cooperation of the parties on how agriculture can become a major part of climate policy – try to do so with the Central Party in government – which strengthens Enova, raises the green shift in business and puts heavy emphasis on forest protection and natural diversity. I think we should stick with this majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1843	Researchers are concerned that plastic has been found in four out of five mussels along the Norwegian coast. Among the worst were Eastfold. Almost daily we get news about new problems with plastics that invade and fill the oatmeal in ever new ways and sooner or later end up in the food we eat – and in us. We have also been told that the water in the jump of 100,000 Norwegians may be contaminated by small pieces of plastic. I hope there are more people than researchers who are concerned about this news, and that we can all do something more than be concerned about it. As the country's top authority in this area, it is the prime responsibility of the Minister for the Environment and the Government to take initiatives and take concrete action against marine pollution. What has come to pass has been too spooky, too narrow and too little concrete, especially when it comes to preventing plastics from getting into nature, because it must be the most important thing. Now it remains to be seen what is the result of Storting's processing of the message that is being processed, but the message itself does not add up to so many new instruments. It also remains to be seen whether the Council of State is willing to follow the decision of the Grand Duchy, or whether he chooses to push the EU ahead, as he has done in relation to the unanimous decision of the Grand Duchy to ask for a ban on microplastics in cosmetics. Although marine litter and microplastics are an international problem, it is important to introduce national bans and national decisions. This sets a standard that others can follow. It also helps to reduce the amount of plastic in the sea, and that must be the target.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1852	We are approaching the end of the debate, and let me thank you for a good debate – albeit quite predictable. It was a post from the representative Hege Haukeland Liadal who requires a little follow-up. It could be heard from the representative’s comments as if there was now a great need to focus on other industries related to the fact that we have had three difficult years in the oil and gas industry. We fully agree that we should invest in more industries, not least within the area we have strong natural resources to care for, the marine industries. But there is no reason for that reason to build up the oil and gas industry. We must not get into a situation where we build down without taking into account these values and the employees who work in that sector. Let me use a little twist on an old saying: we must not throw out the oil and gas industry with the bath water in our eagerness to create new jobs in other industries. What we need are stable framework conditions, new search areas and continued commitment to research and technology development – including in the oil and gas industry. The representative Haukeland Liadal was inside the Statoil Harvest Conference, and that she had heard two posts there, one from me and one from Fatih Birol, the director of the IEA, the International Energy Agency, and that she felt that there was a big difference between the two posts. I do not agree with that. We were very much in agreement with the message and see the same international picture in terms of the energy needs that are out there, and the developments that we want in both the renewable and the oil and gas sectors. What Fatih Birol stressed was that the world needs all the gas Norway can produce and every drop we can take out of oil, because we have low CO 2 emissions from our production, because the world needs more energy and because it matters to the energy security of Europe. Fatih Birol, the International Energy Agency, presented two scenarios in its World Energy Outlook. The main scenario shows that we will have a growth in oil demand, relatively low correctly, up to 2040, a flare in the use of coal up to 2040 and a significant growth in gas demand. In Sustainable Development Scenarios, which points to a scenario where the 2-degree target is reached, there is a slight decrease in oil demand after 2020, 30 million barrels a day in reduction by 2040, but still need 70 million barrels, which Norway can be involved in producing. In the 2-degree scenario, gas demand is also rising strongly, while demand for coal is falling dramatically. The international picture must be taken with us when we discuss Norwegian energy policy, and we must have a proper factual basis. I also hope that the former eagle among Norwegian parties, the Workers' Party, is set to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1871	In a previous post, we heard Stefan Heggelund talk that it was time for a raise for classical nature protection. I totally agree. The problem is that the government disagrees. Nature is not threatened by a single measure — it is the sum of all small measures that threaten nature. There we see consistently that nature loses for other purposes. It already started the first day when this government joined and the Minister for Climate and Environment lost its main tool to do something to take care of nature, namely the level department, which was moved out of the ministry. Since then, we have seen that the environment is consistently losing in all matters. That's true, among other things. WWF and Sabima said in the election campaign, we have a government that actively builds up Norwegian nature. We hear that you boast that you're betting on forest protection. Then we can remember that there was a proposed cut in this 50 million state budget. kr for forest protection. There has been a proposed cut to forest protection in every financial year that this government has been in. Despite the fact that the Storting has decided that we should have a goal of protecting 10 pst. by the forest, the government presents its policies and budget for the opposite. I would like to thank Tina Bru for the frame-up of the Workers' Party's climate policy. She just showed that the Workers' Party has a willingness to bet. Then she said that about CCS we agree. No, we're not. At the hearing, there were no issues in which there was a more unambiguous response, from industrial environments, from the trade union movement, from the environmental movement, which said the same thing: what the government is doing is weakening our efforts at CCS. We are not hearing about new projects, no new initiatives from this government. What they boast of is often policies that have been forced on them against their own will. The oil fund out of coal companies is mentioned as an example. Well, there the government had to be tailed and dragged in, and it came a year later than the opposition wanted. Climate laws are what they refer to. Well, we have to remember that the Progress Party voted against having a climate law. Low-emission zones, which may mean that our cities can take action against poor air quality, have been opposed by the government. It went so far that the Workers' Party had to produce its own legal text here in Stortinget. Now there is a new government platform to be negotiated. We are not hearing about new initiatives by this government. When Stefan Heggelund talks about climate negators, we're going to listen very carefully, because if there's something he has good knowledge of, it's just that. Norway is one of the few countries in the world that have climate dissidents in government. And then we don't have to get dressed in our heads and wonder why we don't get to act – it's because we have people around the King's table who think this isn't a problem at all. It's true, as Trine Skei Grande said in the election campaign four years ago: in climate policy, the Progress Party is not just on another planet, they're in another universe. That's what the universe left now is at full speed into. Finally, I would like to make a explanation of vote. 17, from the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Green Party, on the re-banking in Hardanger, the Workers' Party will also vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1892	Then it's registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1897	First, to the representative Heggelund, who walks on the pulpit here and grumbles at the fact that the centre party has a commitment to the everyday life that people experience within the wolf zone, with the nearby wolf, with wolves that create insecurity in their everyday lives. I expect that people outside this hall will also notice what is being said by representatives from the Right, who have obviously been completely taken over by a wolfobby. After Gunnar Gundersen disappeared from this room, obviously there are no representatives left in the Right who are willing to stand up for that everyday life and the concern that people in those areas where the wolf is highly represented feel on the body every single day. The representative Heggelund also says that this is the only question that the Central Party has raised in this debate. No, there's no way. The centre party has had many contributions on concrete measures that the government does not follow up adequately, related to climate challenges. We are concerned, among other things, with: to have a green investment company, in order to advance renewable new solutions. We are calling for what happens to a CO 2 fund for heavy transport, which the majority in this Chamber has adopted, but for which there is no significant progress, and where more money is needed on the table to get an impact on concrete action. And we demand what happens to carbon capture and storage, when a sheep is so large and extensive, which has been met with strong criticism from industry, from environmental organisations, from trade unions – from a broad front. I have to tell the representative of Elvesuen, who is going to the pulpit here and says that there is no problem with carbon capture and storage, that they will come back to this: it is amazing how soon it has been since Elvesuen on November 5th this year said the following to VG: ‘The budget proposal has created enormous uncertainty in industry, and also internationally, that Norway will no longer have the leading role in carbon capture and storage.’ He also said that in order to restore this confidence it would take money. Then there will be a budget agreement. What's that? There is not one extra crown for carbon capture and storage. On the weekend, the Left decided to go to government negotiations with the Right and the Advance Party. On Monday, a majority could have been formed to stop prisoner transport to the Netherlands. One suggested it in the morning. In the afternoon, that proposal was sedated. Today, a majority could have formed more money for carbon capture and storage, but it is obviously more important to be on good terms with the new partners, the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1916	We're talking about green shifts, green growth and increased green energy production. If we are to maintain the predominance of the Norwegian industry, we must have a change of pace. If we are to get to the conversion, we also need to have access to this kind of energy. We talk a lot about sea winds, about developing new technologies, using new areas, using old technologies in new ways – very important. At the same time, there is one thing we are good at where we have developed technology, and it is green power generation on land – windmills. If we're going to do that, we're going to have to use the whole country. We know that approx. 80 pst. of the unexploited wind power potential is in Finnland, but we lack the necessary infrastructure. We have to have transmission lines with enough capacity, we have to have 420 kV line. It is not enough to pass it on from Balsfjord in Troms to Skaidi/Hammerfest in West Finnmark, we have to pass it on to the municipality of Nesseby, Varangerbotn in East Finland. It is in order to have the necessary security of supply, it is in order to develop existing industries, and it is also in order to develop new industries. We know that the oil and gas industry, which has been debated today, is on its way into the Barents Sea. If that industry is to be able to turn around, become more environmentally friendly, it is necessary to have access to environmentally friendly power. When you look at the answer the minister gave to questions from Jonas Gahr Støre, I think it was defensive. This was shown to be problematic because, at present, there is no need for the large increase in capacity, with regard to reindeer management, nature considerations, other rightholders and users. We're also concerned about that, but we know that you just have to be able to take care of the interests and the interests, the industries, are the long-term, inclusive processes. Then you might consider being a little more offensive, looking at the concession requests now, running the necessary processes, getting rid of it. It is at least not sustainable, as we have today, that in extreme weather conditions the whole of West Finland is connected by the power grid. It is not sustainable, as it is today, to resolve today's energy needs in eastern Finland with imports of power from Finland and Russia, partly based on nuclear power. We are thus also involved in keeping alive old nuclear reactors in the Kola Peninsula, which the International Atomic Energy Agency has asked many years ago to be shut down. So a slightly more offensive attitude I would have liked.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1927	The representative of Ole André Myhrvold has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1932	The representative Stefan Heggelund made himself very high and dark on the pulpit and talked mostly about the other parties rather than talking about his own politics. Very well known, there are no climate negotiators in the Centre Party's large-scale group. That's what the representative Heggelund's government does as far as I know, and that might be what you should be focusing on. If the representative Heggelund had heard of it, he would also have heard in my main post that the Central Party supports the goal of 40 p.m. reduction, back to 1989 level. We are technology optimists, but we also base a precautionary attitude and want powerful instruments in climate policy. So the rhetoric here is ground. Then there was talk about nature protection. In the case of the Trille, which the Right has been involved in protecting, the Right does not support the remark to establish a national centre for coniferous protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1941	It has been said by, among others. Representative Åsmund Aukrust that no climate initiatives have come from this government. The representative of Terje Aasland spoke of four lost years in the previous period. I can understand that, from the perspective of the Workers' Party. If you look at the election result, and if you look at the measurement of the development of the parties' credibility in environmental issues, I can understand that the Workers' Party sees it as four lost years. But it was for the Workers' Party and not for Norway. It was this government that proposed, and was given the advantage that we should have ambitious 2030 targets in cooperation with the EU. Cooperation with the EU has been an idea in the past – this government has driven it through a more committed, systematic framework for Norwegian climate policy, which is of great importance. It was this government that established the Climate Risk Committee. This is fundamental, because it will provide us with a tool to twist public and private investment in a greener direction in the years to come. It was this government that introduced a new environmental regulation into the Public Acquisitions Act and reintroduced the right of appeal removed by the Red-Green Government. This government decided to continue the electric car benefits. The red-green figures would have caused the scheme to be abolished in 2015. We have introduced new research and innovation initiatives that now provide concrete, exciting and new projects to reduce emissions from heavy transport, and there are few environmental ministers who have said that they should ban oil firing. I've done it. It's also how we cooperate perfectly with the Left and Christian People's Party in the Stortinget. It's a four-party collaboration we've had these four years, and it's given the Left and Christian People's Party significant impact. I have said from this pulpit before that the Left has had a greater impact on climate policy with this government than the SV had in the previous government. We're cooperative, and that gives us results. From 2015 to 2016, emissions decreased by 1 pst. There have been no lower emissions in the non-quota sector since we started measuring in 1993, so the gap to the 2020 targets is reduced from eight million tonnes when we took over to two million tonnes now. It shows that active policies and active cooperation policies, where we also have the freedom to give effect to the partners, deliver results.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1954	This entry was dedicated to the representative Heggelund, the representative Bru and the councillor Vidar Helgesen. Ever since the beginning of the debate today, ever since the third article in this room, where the centre party had two lines about the wolf, we've been told not to deal with the matter of wolf in this debate, a matter that is so important to so many, and which really needs the spokespersons who have, because there's obviously not much support to pick up in the Right. I think it's scary what signals the Right sends when they act this way, when they simply overrun people, when they don't take people seriously and ridicule that we take this matter up in the Storting. The wolf administration is a matter for the Stortinget and the government, and those who live with the wolf tightly on them are completely offered the decisions we make here in Stortinget. If there's somewhere we have to be able to deal with the matter, it's right here. I notice that the Right is not very willing to comment on the wolf policy. They have not answered all the questions we have asked. They haven't answered if they want to take out the Stallows. I wonder if the Right believes that people in the wolf zone and people in Trysil should be satisfied with the situation as it is. In the past, I wondered if the Right felt that the matter was not important enough to be addressed in this debate, but that has been true in the course of the debate. It's obviously one thing they don't seem important enough. So we're talking here about wolves that are close, that create insecurity in communities, that have led to that the field industries almost have no basis in wolf-stained areas, that have led to barely a sheep left in the wolf zone, because it's not possible to have sheep when the wolf takes the sheep all the time, that has led people to stop hunting because there's nothing to hunt in the forest, because the wolf takes a lot of game as well. It affects people's rights, and it affects people's everyday lives. That right should take it seriously and respect it. Who are the deniers here? It is constantly referred to the wolf as the Norwegian wolf, like the Scandinavian wolf, as biodiversity, as a genetically valuable wolf. But we're talking here about the wolf being wiped out on the Scandinavian peninsula in the 1960s. The wolf we're talking about came to Norway and reestablished after the year 2000. We are talking about a tribe that comes from the Finnish-Russian wolf, which is not genetically unique to Norway. There is no one in the Green Party or in the Right who will recognise properly here on the Storting, but it is important to bring it into the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1965	The debate is on its way to the end, and it has been largely a good debate on important issues. As we hear and should, we have underlined things we agree on, and it is fortunately so in this country that we agree on many important things. We don't spend the whole day talking about the consensus, but it's good to note that. So there are some dividing lines. I'm concerned about stressing that I'm a little surprised especially when the representative Heggelund does so much out of hoaxing with the parties that allow themselves to say that the world is going to change in the years that are coming. We in my party are firmly committed to the fact that the policy we have pursued in terms of oil extraction, gas extraction and long-term, clear and predictable framework conditions has been good, good and will remain good. But at the same time, we say that when everyone else understands – investors around the world, the oil companies themselves – that we are not going to do this for all eternity, it must be allowed to start asking questions whether Norway too is going to deal with a reality that hopefully will become less oil and gas dependent than it has been for the past 30–50 years, just because it has to be. I would recommend that the Right Party and the Advance Party also take on board that the answer to it may not always be that we guarantee no changes to the framework conditions we now have. But when the Workers' Party says that, it's not because we have a plan to change them now. That's why I want to recognise once again the Helgesen State Council's good response in the change of line, that when we have a climate risk selection and have such a discussion, there will be changes in the future, and they will be taken when they arrive. I have to say again that we are discussing a budget where the opposition wants to increase the amount of carbon capture and storage, while the government has cut sharply. The opposition wants to increase the focus on nature protection where there have been strong cuts, and we want to increase efforts to prevent floods and migration. So there are clear lines in this discussion. The fact that we agree on some big targets, does not mean that there are actually some proper dividing lines as well. The most important question for me when we leave this debate is that we who live right now have a greater responsibility than ever to start thinking about how to deal with some issues that are so big that if we don't think about them, it becomes impossible to have debates about some questions about some years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1978	I only want to take up a little bit of the post to Else-May Botten, who was about to ask questions about the progress party's relationship to shipping. There shall be no doubt as to what kind of conditions the Progress Party has in supporting shipping, and that throughout the value chain. But it's now once like that that one should have seafarers, one has to have boats, and the maritime strategy is a very good starting point for our bet. Now we see that this has worked, and the shipping companies are flagging the boats back to Norway. We've strengthened the net pay system, we've legalized it, we've prioritised maritime education, and we've made demands for apprentices, so there's a number of measures the Progress Party and the government have been on to support the maritime industry. Then I share the bottom view of the concern about the cancellation of the exemption from the CO 2 tax. I also mentioned in my post that it concerns me. It's a situation and a development that we have to follow up. We have to make sure that one doesn't end up in a situation where the best thing is to be the enemy of good and we see that we lose the advantage that we have of the LNG bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1988	The representative Else-May Botten has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e1994	Tina Bru is so suspended in the Labour Party's policy that she can hit it. I think that is festive, and it is also very good that the representative is concerned about the environmental technology system that was introduced when we were in government – the eight fine years. We have more to offer from the eight years that are important to bring into the future. So over to Halleland, which was concerned with shipping: I think we agree in many areas, but the point is that then the government, too, has to pursue a policy that actually focuses on the climate and on reducing emissions. Finally, I just want to say that Heggelund in his summary instead seemed like a commentator who came in from the sideline and was going to explain what all the others have said in the debate, while he himself actually appeared more like a shadow of himself when he began talking about the climate emissions having gone so much down with this government. It's actually wrong. They went much more down in the eight red-green years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2003	I just had to take the floor, because the representative Heggelund swung to the great heights. It was almost a little ‘orwellish’ noodle over what Heggelund said today – trying to create some labels and then filling them with a completely different content than what actually is. Because it is not that some are climate skeptics because they do not agree with the representative Stefan Heggelund believes. It was almost what it seemed like when Heggelund stood on the pulpit here, that if one did not settle down in the debate to actually talk about exactly what the Right seemed to be important, or what the government thought was important, a label about being a climate skeptic would be put on. Obviously, in the debate on the Ministry of the Environment’s budget, one should use the opportunity to also talk about another important part of the Ministry of the Environment’s portfolio, namely predatory game policy. I am sure there are many of Heggelund's party colleagues, among others. The representative Rodum Agdestein and the representative Tonning Riise, who is pleased that the centre party took this up today, because they are as we know quite agree with us on some of those aspects. So the representative Heggelund also uses his speaking time to raddle over the opposition instead of talking about his own policy. I understand that, because it was the opposition that drove the climate policy forward in the last period. Throughout the last period, government has been fighting to present some climate policy issues at all. The result was a number of Document 8 proposals from different opposition parties, which also subsequently received a majority. That's good. It pushed climate policy forward in the previous period. It is quite significant when the Council of State stands here on the platform and has to go back to oil firing and the ban on it, which was contained in the government statement four years ago – and also has to go back to the climate agreement with the EU – to find things that the government and the Right were concerned about when it came to climate policy. In fact, greenhouse gas emissions were reduced by 1.6 million tonnes under the red-green government and have been reduced by 0.1 million tonnes under this government. The reluctance of this government towards good proposals, in particular in the field of carbon capture and storage, and not least in the case of a very low-hanging fruit from my area, namely the electrification of the Tronder Railway, is indicative of the reluctance to put in actually good, effective climate measures that reduce CO 2 emissions. Instead, one chooses to keep panegyrian posts from the pulpit. They won't convince anyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2015	The representative Tina Bru has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2020	It's pretty easy to frame up policies when it's really our own, so it wasn't that complicated to mention all the measures of the Workers' Party. That is precisely my criticism, because the criticism that came against the government's policy could well have been about the Labour Party's own policy. The Aukrus representative is calling for new measures, but where are the new measures in their budget? There are no new measures, just more money. In my first post today, I pointed out that, after all, it is good that there is a fairly broad consensus on the long lines of climate and environmental policy. It is very nice that the representative Barth Eide also points it out in his last post, and a little strange that the whole fraction of the Workers' Party does not mean the same thing. Finally, a map of CCS: there is no disagreement that this is important. The debate has been about whether a round should be held in Stortinget before a decision is taken on the project. I think it's quite incredible that the Workers' Party and the Center Party, who were in the government responsible for Mongstad, don't see the value in it. There is money to lead the projects to a decision also in the transfers from minor consumption last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2029	This is a debate on the state budget. The representative, Enger Mehl, has so far spent all his speaking time – along with most of the others from the Central Party, so far – talking about anything other than the State budget. They're not talking about climate, not about environment, not about oil and gas, but about wolves. They are not talking about the 42 wolves to be shot this winter, and not that the government has listened to the Stortinget. Furthermore, the Centre Party makes a big point that we others do not discuss different parts of the wolf policy. It might be because the matter we're talking about is the state budget. Then claims are made that we hide that the Norwegian wolf has Finnish-Russian ants. I suggest that the representative actually join the government party, that we need more such genes, more Finnish-Russian wolves, for the survival of the wolf population. But I'm assuming that maybe there's nothing the Center Party wants. No doubt about the central party's involvement in the matter, but when you get so weld-blind that you get excited that others don't talk about wolves in absolutely all the debates, then maybe you should breathe a little bit with your stomach before you keep yelling wolf, wolf.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2036	In the process of transition to a green, renewable and sustainable society, forests play a key role. Increased use and better resource use of our forest resources are crucial in climate policy. In order to maximise the climate benefit from forests, while stimulating Norwegian business and innovation, forest policy must facilitate the active and sustainable use of our resources. The forest collects CO 2 and products of wood bind carbon. The fifth report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change assumes that the use of modern bioenergy has to be at least fivefold in order to achieve the 2-degree target. Therefore, we need to increase the yield of forest significantly and plant more than we do today. According to NIBIO, there is a sustainable basis for increasing logging in Norwegian forests by at least 5 million cubic metres per year. Furthermore, there is a high potential for increased use of caverns, representing about 20-30 pst. of biomass in Norwegian forests. Forestry needs predictability and good framework conditions. The centre lot will continue to expand and improve the infrastructure for timber transport. It includes both major road and rail transport projects and continued efforts to remove bottlenecks on forest roads. In its alternative state budget, the Central Party will establish a state-owned green investment company with an initial capital of 10 billion. to ensure investment in companies that take a leading role in the development of new technologies and new green carbon-based solutions. Timber is a product with amazing properties. About everything we produce from oil and plastic today can be replaced by timber. Therefore, the forest is important not only to save the climate, but also in the fight against pollution by nature and sea and in the fight against non-degradable waste. The forest must be prioritised in several ways. The state and the public must use wood in their own constructions, e.g.: in large transport projects and public buildings, as well as stimulating private use for increased use of wood. It is necessary to stimulate the use of biomass as a substitute for fossil products and, in particular, to ensure the transition to a renewable transport sector through a long-term and predictable deployment of biofuels. The forest is not just supposed to save the climate. The forest is also an industrial policy. Increased use of forests and wood is essential to build a strong mainland industry and secure the Norwegian economy in the future. There is also a major reason why it is important to ensure an overall value chain in Norway and that value creation takes place and remains in Norway – from plant to finished processed product.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2054	State council Helgesen just referred to that the government believes that 1 pst. cut in the last year is big, given things. It's in one of the richest countries in the world and in a period of low oil activity. I don't know the details of that calculation and how he makes it sound like we're going to reduce the gap in the climate deal from 8 to 2 million tons. But even though we accept the premise for the calculation and take Helgesen on the floor, we see that the State Council Helgesen, together with the State Council of Søviknes, is directing the country towards a solid breach of the climate agreement, in 2020. With the Green State Budget, we would have achieved that goal of glamour. That's the difference between green weed and real green growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2059	The centre party is betting on climate change, and we are betting on climate action that brings effect. I don't know where the Right-Representatives have been in this debate, but there have been many good contributions from the Centre Party that have addressed climate – and yes, also predators, because that is actually part of this budget. The centre party is betting on CO 2 funds. We're betting on CO 2 capture and storage and the establishment of a green investment company. In contrast to the government and the supporting parties, we are putting fresh funds into major environmental measures that produce effects, rather than increasing taxes that do not produce climate effects and that affect those who live in the districts. So to the representatives Heggelund and Westgaard-Halle, who pointed out that both the young and the old in the Center Party are occupied by the Robbery Administration. Yeah, and that's good. It's good to have a party that follows up the game management at this stake, because it's actually part of our problems. I wish the Right also got a little more concerned with that problem, because it's about prioritising grazing animals in an area that's under heavy pressure, an area where the local population lives every day in fear of the nearby Sledås wolf. It's time to take this seriously. I have also noticed that several right-wing politicians, including at Stortinget, fully agree with the Central Party on this matter. So over to nature protection: the classic nature protection has been by government to protect the Trillemark. But they don't follow it up. The Right and Advance Party promised in the election campaign that they would support a nature information centre linked to Trillemarka. The centre party has proposed this, but there is something on the right and the Progress Party could not be involved. Can we expect the Right and the Advance Party to be in charge of the election campaign commitments in the revised national budget? It concerns Trillemarka, and not least large-scale air-conditioning projects, as the CCS project is.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2076	The representative Espen Barth Eide has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2081	This is a comment to the representative Brus last post, and it is hopefully also the last post on CCS today. There's no disagreement that next year we're going to have a very important and big debate here in the Storting, initiated by the government, about the really big elections. The criticism of an overall opposition, and – at least until recently – many of those who are now thinking of going into the government, argued, is that these three projects, i.e. Norcem, Yara and Klemetsrud, had a value of two levels: firstly, because they bistoed us in clarifying what is the most realistic full-scale facility, secondly, because they were driving a technology development that is important in itself. Therefore, we believe that it was absolutely wrong time to make a radical breach of the appropriations for these – before we have the big discussion. There's a disagreement. Then I don't think we should pretend that we all agree. We believe that this still requires more money, and then we see how much that consensus will be when we get to the debate. I didn't realize that the Prime Minister was very enthusiastic, but it remains to be seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2086	I notice that this must be a pretty good budget, because what has been discussed most in this Chamber, and which also several have pointed out, is among other things. criticism of wolf, whether the Norwegian wolf is an immigrant or not, and which FrPs did not believe in anthropogenic climate change in the past. What I think is even more interesting is the differences that have emerged in the debate. We have e.g. The Greens want to strangle Norwegian oil and gas industry and Norwegian welfare, while we have an environmental party in Germany that says the opposite, screaming for Norwegian gas. We have an SV that criticises the government for not doing enough for renewable energy, while protecting the most possible areas for renewable energy deployment. I'm not going to go this much longer, but I see there's been a debate where we've got some differences. I'm sure we're going to get a good budget for next year too, even if someone shouts wolf, wolf in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2098	The representative of Ola Elvestuen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2103	I'm gonna be okay. First, a few comments. The position of the left until CCS has been brought forward. When we presented our option, we put great emphasis on the CCS bet and have done so in the negotiations. What is the difference is the matter we are also dealing with now, about changes in the state budget for 2017, where there is a small consumption of 110–170 million. kr. With the verbal decision we have in the budget, we think it's enough to keep these going until we get a case for the Storting. To wild breeds and wild breeds in Hardanger: I would like to remind you that in the current year, with the budget agreement from last year, we have preserved the genetic material collected in Hardanger, and we also support the fact that this must be maintained and maintained at the same time this year. You have to have a discussion about how to do this, eventually.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2112	The representative Stefan Heggelund has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2117	I am not going to apologize to the Central Party for prioritizing in this energy and environmental debate the greatest challenge facing this world, namely the climate challenges. I'm not going to apologize for that. And when the Center Party is going to go up and answer that -- what are they talking about then? Wolf! They just keep doing it, and then they come up with some populist analyses that the wolfobby has taken over in the right. No, we're going to shoot 42 wolves. Marit Arnstad goes up to the pulpit and says I'm not talking about government policy. That's wrong. You have to answer what is said in an article, if you want to replicate an article. As far as the Workers' Party is concerned, it was simply the sober observations, the friendships of parties with which they want to cooperate, and their totally unrealistic representation of their own policies, as opposed to the policy pursued by the government now, where climate emissions have actually fallen, both in the quota and non-quota sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2126	I can assure the representative Heggelund that the Central Party does not expect any excuse from him. We never expected that. What we pointed out was that there was something "orwellish" about what he said. So, what he's really saying is that if you're so rude that you can think anything other than what the Right believes is good, then you're going to be called a climate skeptic or put on other labels. That's what I pointed out, and as I thought it was wrong – and also unnecessary – to pick up from the Great Britain's pulpit. The centre party has taken up the climate in a number of articles here today. We have pointed out that we think the climate effort for the government is too bad. We have pointed out that we believe that the CCS bet should have been financed in another way in the autumn and started. These are good projects that matter. We've also picked up predatory game. It is also part of the Ministry of the Environment's budget, the representative Heggelund and the representative Westgaard-Halle may not have brought it with them. That's actually it, and it also deserves to be taken up. And I'm sure there are many in the Progress Party and the Right who are happy that the Center Party is addressing this issue, especially when they hear the representatives of their own parties here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2137	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 5–7.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2149	The summons alternate of the Uppland County, Ingerd Thon Hagaseth, takes no seat. Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2662	A total of 29 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ola Elvesuen on behalf of Right, Party of Advances, Left and Christian People's Party proposed no. 2 and No 14–16, by Espen Barth Eide on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 3, from Espen Barth Eide on behalf of the Labour Party proposed no. 4, 5 and 17, by Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 6, by Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Centre Party and the Environment Party Dei Green proposed no. 18 and 19, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party proposed no. 7, 20 and 29, by Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Centre Party proposed no. 8 to 12 and points 21–25, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposed no. 13, 26 and 27, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens proposal No 28, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party During the debate we were told that there was an error in the setting: capital A frame range 12, cap. 2490 item 24, sub-heading 5, should be sub-heading 6. First of all, there will be a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Environmental Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish a national support scheme for the purchase of electric bicycles.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2712	Proposal No. 27, from the Environmental Party of Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to draw up a contingency plan for climate and forest management with the aim of managing the scheme twice as large a framework as today by 2021.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2729	Proposal No. 26, from the Environmental Party of Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish an objective to escalate the number of selected cultural landscapes to at least 100 by 2021.’ The Socialist Left and Red have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2746	Proposal No. 28, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Development projects on Norwegian continental shelf Stortinget agrees that the Ministry of Oil and Energy in 2018 may authorise projects on Norwegian continental shelf under the following conditions: 1. [[plans for deployment/installation and operation]] The project must not have any principal or social implications. 2nd@item: inlistbox The maximum total investment per project amounts to 7 billion. krones. 3rd@item: inlistbox Each project must demonstrate acceptable socio-economic viability and be reasonably robust against changes in the price evolution of oil and natural gas. 'The Green and Red Party has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2761	Proposal No. 8 to 12 and points 21–25, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make a calculation with a discount rate of 7 pst. including cleaning-up costs, for which the oil price is estimated to be necessary for the country to remain at a positive present value in the development of Goliath.» [[growth plus]] Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to report on the development of profitability in all individual fields under development in future draft government budgets, as well as on the state’s prospects for revenue from the fields.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government requests the continuation of the Climate and Energy Fund in a stand-alone fund with significant commitment powers.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that Enova emphasises the need to reduce local pollution by allocating funds to shore-side electricity.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all contracts relating to petroleum expansions to be dealt with in the Storting are awaited before they are concluded by the Storting.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to resume the protection processes for Børgin and Skarnsund with a view to ensuring the areas of protection through a marine protection plan.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider providing operational support to the organisation La Humla Suse through the support scheme to non-profit organisations and non-profit institutions serving households.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asked to initiate a major international investigation into the world insect population situation, e.g. under the direction of IPBES.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit plans for Norway’s representative protection of 17 pst. of all habitat types in relation to the revised national budget 2018.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that sediment remediation in Hammerfest, Horten and Ålesund is progressing in line with submitted timetables, so that cleaning can start in 2019.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2827	Proposal No. 20 and 29, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with an up-to-date cost estimate and a plan for resuming the project of rebuilding wild game banks in Hardangerfjorden.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to authorise the killing of the Deleteås flock in accordance with the wishes of the local predatory agent.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2849	Proposal No. 7 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess different models for balancing network rentals between different parts of the country and to propose any legislative and budgetary changes in the 2019 government budget.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2866	Proposal No. 6, from the Center Party and the Environment Party Dei Green. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to incorporate into Enova’s mandate to contribute to the financing of at least 1000 new high-speed chargers per year. years until 2021.’» Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2883	Proposal No. 18 and 19, from the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Environmental Party of the Green Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to stop drilling further on the Viking Bank until a new management plan is presented.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government is asked not to authorise new exploration activities in particularly valuable and vulnerable areas until new management plans are in place.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2907	Proposal No. 4 and 5, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to incorporate into Enova’s mandate a target for the full electricisation of today’s fishing fleets by 2023.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to resubmit a concrete plan with proposals for new/enhanced instruments to reduce total energy use in the construction sector by 10 TWh by 2030 compared to the current level. The plan shall include a concrete phasing-out plan in construction and an instrument package with existing and new instruments to achieve the objective.’.» Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2931	Proposal No. 17, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environmental Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking to ensure the further collection of genetic material for salmonids in Hardangerfjorden and that this is taken care of to ensure the genetic diversity of salmonids and trout populations.’ The Labour Party and the Red Party have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2949	Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to establish a programme of low-carbon technologies in the oil and gas sector in cooperation with the industry.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e2966	Proposal No. 2 and No 14–16, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to facilitate the establishment of a European central stockpiles of CO 2 stocks in the North Sea.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government, on the basis of the Oslo municipality model, is asked to submit annual sectoral greenhouse gas savings budgets to ensure sufficient progress in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to initiate a research programme on insect monitoring in Norway.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit plans for the restoration of 15 pst by Norway. by destroyed ecosystems, so that we can achieve the target set by 2025.» Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e3003	Proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to facilitate the opening of one to two areas of renewable energy production at sea and to facilitate applications for demonstration projects for liquid wind energy.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already given subsidiary support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e3019	The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e4676	It's getting wet over A I. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e4690	A III, VII, X and XI shall be counted. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e4704	A II, IV, V, VI, VIII, IX, XII to XVI shall be counted against. The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e6605	It's getting wet over B I. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e6619	B II to XI will be voted on. The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e6634	I was going to vote in favour – it was going up to 96!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e6639	I should also vote in favour!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e6644	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e6710	C I, II and IV to IX shall be contested. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e6724	I think I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e6729	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e6741	It's getting wet over C III. Right, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e7744	The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-13.ana.ud315e8501	This means that today's maps are ready. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? Then the president will want all the groups to have a dignified and lovely Christmas marking tonight and remind you that the meeting will start again at 4 p.m. 10 tomorrow. - The meeting has been cancelled.
