ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e82	The representatives of Jørund Rytman, Fredric Holen Bjørdal, Eirik Sivertsen, Anne Tingelstad Wøien and Eirin Sund, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For the county of Hordaland: Eigil Knutsen For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Steinar Reiten For Nordland County: Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren and Anette Kristine Davidsen For the county of Rogaland: Øystein Langholm Hansen For the Westfold province: Steinar Gullvåg For Eastfold County: Håvard Jensen and Shakeel Ur Rehman From the Workers' Group there is an application for the extension, from 30 March to 4 April, of the licence granted to the representative of Jorod Asphjell until 6 April. This application is proposed to be dealt with immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative, Ferhat Güven, is proposed to continue to meet during the leave period. – It is also considered to be adopted. The Workers' Group has been informed that the allowances granted to Knut Storberget on days 3 and 4 of April and to Eirik Sivertsen on days 5 and 6 of April respectively have been withdrawn. – This message is taken into account. Two permit applications are available: by the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative Anna Ljunggren from 3 April onwards and until further notice from the Central Party’s Group on Per Olaf Lundtägen leave on 3 and 4 April in order to attend meetings of the Nordic Council in Stockholm Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Buskerud County, Gerd Eli Berge, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of Per Olaf Lundtägen, on grounds of sickness. From the first deputy representative of the Nordland County, Tone-Helen Toften, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under the representative Anna Ljunggren's leave for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Buskerud County: Anders Braaten For the Nordic counties: Hugo Bjørnstad and Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e212	Anders Braaten and Hugo Bjørnstad are present and will take the seat. Councillor Ketil Solvik-Olsen exceeded 9 kg. propositions [[see Unit]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e223	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that due to the occurrence of a disease, the case becomes no. 7 on the map of the day. It may also have consequences for the time when today’s meeting ends. So it's the interpellation between Kjersti Toppe and the Minister of Knowledge that's going to be exposed. Furthermore, the President will inform you that the meeting is likely to continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e243	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines be given with replies from the member of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e252	We write April, and then traditionally the big, heavy and politically important things come to mind in Stortinget. That is why it is now a great pleasure for the Stortinget to finally deal with changes to the cable car law and the Tifoli law! It is time – I assume there are many people here who have received a number of enquiries about these matters. I remember from the last election campaign all those who got lost in condition, or who at the public meetings raised questions about the cable car law and the Tifoli law. So it's time for us now to make required changes to the cable car law and the Tifoli law. From jokes – I get to emphasize it, because of the reporting – to seriousness. A few brief comments on the amendments to the cableway law: The Committee gave its opinion on 14 March. After the release, the legal text has been corrected, and two errors have been discovered, which I want to make the Storting aware of. In the recommendation § 28 the legal number relating to the Oreigningsgesetz has expired. Furthermore, the text has the wrong target form. The correct text shall be as follows: ‘In the case of expropriation for necessary land and rights for construction of cableway, the rules of Law No 23 October 1959 apply. 3 on the orphanage of immovable property and Law No 6 April 1984 17 for remuneration in the event of ownership of immovable property.» And then it's clarified. In short, some comments from my side: The reason why the government has submitted the changes to the law is, as they write, that there is a need to update today's law on rope cars and cable cars, and that one with the new law will have a common law for all kinds of rope cars and cable cars. The Committee has no objections to it and agrees with the government's objective of strengthening the safety of Norwegian taubans and that one with the legislative amendments facilitates it, and that one also clears up something in today's legislation. A question which the Committee has concerned relates to the supervisory authority under law and whether the supervisory authority may also be delegated to a private organisation or private institution. It is concerned at the position of the Committee and the Committee has shared that view. A large minority in the Committee, the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left do not consider that there is a need for a general basis for the delegation of the supervisory authority to private persons. It has now been delegated to the State Railway Authority. As far as I know, that supervisory authority was previously delegated to the Norwegian Veritas, and so there was a need to have an authorisation to delegate it to private. But when we are in the situation that we have a public authority that stands for it today, the minority – a large minority – believe that it is not necessary to have a general authority for private individuals to do so, and that it would have been more natural once in the future, if that were the case, then to change the law, and possibly then to delegate it to private people. But it's not exactly the biggest thing in the world now, and it's basically the only question that the committee has been problematizing, and on which there's some disagreement in the committee. In other words, that is not the only question that the Committee has addressed, because, as the Storting will see, and as the Minister for Transport will also see, a unanimous increase in the number of jobs is a proposal to take into account, when drawing up the regulations of the law, that there are considerable differences in cableway facilities. Some are very small and carry very few passengers, while some are very large and carry many passengers, and this should also be taken into account in the regulatory design.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e272	So even though it's small, we're good to make this one's, and even though the minority is large, it's all, after all, a majority. The right, the Progress Party and the Central Party shall form the majority of the Committee, and the matter shall be the supervisory authority. The plural says: ‘The majority sees it as right that changes to the law such as this turn supervision to give greater focus to the safety management system and less focus on retail controls. It may seem reasonable to facilitate the approval of other actors for supervision, as proposed by the government. The majority see that there are a number of installations that fall under the definition of cableway. In this context, it would be appropriate to add supervision to actors already operating or able to operate in the different markets. The majority will point out that, as elsewhere in society, rapid technological development is taking place, and ask the government to follow it with a view to ensuring that the law is adapted to the possibilities available. The majority refers to the Council’s letter of reply dated 18 January 2017 and 24 January 2017, the occasion for the delegation of the supervisory authority being explained. The majority assume that the department’s supervisory authority may be delegated to public or private organisations.’;» In the case of cableway, it is clear that, not least in the case of agriculture, there are some devices under the same name. There is already an environment to be able to approve such installations, and we think it makes sense to spread that authority a little bit across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e284	I'm going to admit that even though it wasn't this case that created the greatest commitment, not even in my county, at the last election campaign, we're still happy that we're now getting an up-to-date law and a common law for all kinds of rope cars and cable cars. There must be a high level of security in Norwegian taubans – it is today – and this legislation further strengthens security. These include: important that the same provisions as are currently laid down in the rail law on drug addiction, compulsory detention and testing are now also included in the cableway law. Compared to today's rail law § 3a, which also applies to cable cars, the heading has been changed to indicate that it applies to all types of intoxication and not only to alcohol. We think that makes sense. I would also like to draw attention to Section 22 on abstinence, where the first paragraph of the provision introduces a ban on personnel with tasks that may affect the safety of the rope, against the use of alcohol or other intoxicating or anesthetic during the duty period. This provision must be regarded as a continuation of the current provision in the first paragraph of Section 3b of the Railway Act for Cableways, but as new for other cable cars. This provision will include all personnel who have tasks that may affect the safety of the rope. It also includes personnel who do not have a day-to-day safety task but who are part of their business preparedness. The second subparagraph of this provision specifies that the period of service covers the period from the commencement of and the termination of the duties of personnel. The prohibition shall also apply for a period of eight hours before the commencement of the duty period. These are, in our opinion, good clarifications. There is a disagreement within the Committee related to the supervisory authority. The majority open up the possibility for the Ministry’s supervisory authority to be delegated to a private organisation. A justification from the Right, the Advance Party and the Centre for opening up private supervision is that supervision should be added to operators already operating or able to operate in the different markets. Today, the State Railway Authority has been delegated this task. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we do not see any serious arguments to change this, and we believe that safety is best ensured by the fact that it is still the State's railway authorities that carry out this task. We therefore do not see the need to have a general legal framework in order for the supervisory task to be delegated to private individuals. It is also the case that this raises several questions of principle where supervision is to be carried out by private individuals, and in particular in an area where public oversight is currently in place. Then we may have to get back to the matter if the State Railway Authority does not have to have this task in the future, but then the most neat thing will be that it will do if the law changes later. In addition to this, we support the case and refer to the rapporteur's good review.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e299	Many have already pointed out that it is not a matter that has taken people into a campaign and when they meet politicians, but at the same time it is a matter that underlines the importance of ensuring the security of the installations we have in the country. Road safety is often given the highest attention because the frequency of accidents is high and affects so many. When one started working to get this law in place for the first time, it was also based on the fact that many accidents occurred in 1974, when six people were killed in various incidents. One has matured over time, gained experience, and looked at how one can make this easier and better. One of the jobs we're going to do is to make sure that the laws and regulations we have to govern our country are also as simple as possible, so that the operators in the industry do not experience any more looting and heaviness or unnecessary costs that give no use, but only disadvantages to those who run. There has been one of the objectives of the review we have now had. When Veritas said in 2010/2011 that they no longer wanted to exercise supervision on behalf of the authorities, they were relieved of the task. The State Railway Authority took over. But we see that there have been a lot of different rules that have regulated this. Now we get everything in one place. We're making simplifications, but at the same time, I think we're taking care of the level of safety at least today's level, and that's important. One also ensures that one also exercises supervision in a slightly different way. One shall have more risk-based supervision. All operators in the industry will continue to be subject to supervision, even if it does not mean that they will necessarily be visited every year, because one here has to make assessments of where is the risk and then uses its energy there. It may be surveillance that becomes site-based, but it may also be more about going through papers and checking that all the formal stuff is in order. It is up to the supervisory authorities how they intend to address this. Good supervision is the authority’s tool to look at the players in the cards, but the responsibility remains with the actors. It is not that if you have not had supervision for a year, you are also free of responsibility – on the contrary. All actors involved in this type of service must make sure that they are conscious of their responsibilities, and then the supervision shall be the small extra insurance provided by the large community for the fact that the actors are actually conscious of their responsibilities and comply with the law. I am also very pleased that we are able to clean up and simplify the legislation in many areas. It makes it easier for actors to deal with this. We have visited some of them ourselves, and we have experienced that everyone thinks this was a pity. I also feel that the consensus that is in this room shows that what is happening is being experienced as a good and not as a controversial and difficult topic. As I said, that's what we've also experienced with the industry. I would like to thank the Committee and the European Parliament for their good treatment, and we shall ensure that this is done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e314	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e319	I think maybe I've been hurt to say that we're going to make changes to the cable car law. If, as the rapporteur, I have been unprecise to Stortinget, I would like to make it clear that it is a matter of adopting a new law on ropeans. Not that it matters, but right should be right. So we're talking about a new law on ropeans, which is also reflected in the committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e324	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e340	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six lines be given, with replies from members, that the government, and those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time, be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e349	As the President understands, the signatory is responsible for the major issues of the Spring Session of Storting. Now we're talking about a new tifoli law. Let me first clarify something of the same thing as in the previous case – cleanups. The Committee endorses the Government's proposal to adopt a new Tifoli Act, or, as it is called, the Act of Pleasure. I want to start by reading what the definition of an entertainment device is. There is a device where the audience is «brought into motion or situations in which they do not have complete or partial control of their own motion». I have registered that evil tongues have claimed that parts of Storting's business should be covered by the Tifoli Act. Some have claimed that parts of what we are doing in this house mean that some people do not have control of their own movement. I have also seen that it has been shown to last year's budgetary procedures in this way. If it had been a good idea, others might consider, but we're not yet there that the Storting is defined as a pleasure device. A few things have to be commented on. First back to the discussion we had in the previous matter of supervisory authority. I do not have to repeat the argument that I made on behalf of the minority in the previous case, but would clarify that what was minority in the previous case is majority in this case because the central party here agrees with the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. There is now no majority in the Storting that the supervisory authority can be delegated to private persons under the Tifoli Act. We're in the situation that there's no legal provision in the Tifoli Act about it. The cableway law includes an explicit provision that supervision can be delegated to the private sector — but not to the Tifoli Act. You might say that it's a bad thing, and it's probably basically the Department of Transportation in the form of letters also said to the Stortinget. I understand that two different departments have drawn up the basis of the two laws. We are then in the somewhat unfortunate situation that no paragraph of the Tifoli Act states that the supervision can be delegated to private individuals, but it is an understanding of the law and a continuation of the current law. I would like to make it clear once again that the legislator does not pass on that right by the fact that the majority of people now say how the law is to be understood, and that one does not want to continue the supervisory authority to private ones. The second question I would like to raise is an enquiry that the Transport Committee received in the course of the debate from the Norwegian Circus and Tivolieian Association, NCTF, on the problems of obtaining the necessary insurance for Tivoli. I would like to read what the Minister for Transport wrote in a letter to the Committee on the subject: «In the light of the information provided by the NCTF, which does not appear to have been sufficiently focused in the past and the Committee's questions, the Committee may consider in the legislative proposal the possibility of granting exemptions from the security requirement. If the Committee considers that such a derogation should be considered, this may be done in concrete terms with the following additions to the second paragraph of Section 4(c) of the TIOL, including requirements on manning, rescue preparedness, safety management system and liability and exemption from security requirements. ‘... These are the last words I read – ‘and exemption for collateral requirements’ – that are the change. The size changes a little bit on the bill from the government, and that's the whole deal. It is an overall committee that promotes the setting-up of all points. And so, if there was any uncertainty, we can establish that there will be tefolia also coming seasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e372	I will not repeat the argument from the previous case on the supervisory authority. Although we are now in a minority in this case, we still believe that some of the same arguments can also be used here. What I think was important – and I would like to thank the rapporteur for very good work on this matter – is that there was such an uncertainty about insurance, really is a very serious matter. It turns out that those who have run this business -- we're not talking about those like Millennia and the big ones, they have their insurance, and they're going to continue to be well insured -- all the little ones who travel around, the ones we meet in different kinds of markets, didn't get insurance, and the insurance they thought they had was also not valid. So it's been an important task to get cleaned up in it. Now, an exception rule is being made to make sure that if everything's all right, you might have to let go of the insurance. But I would like to stress the importance of the objective responsibility of any actor operating this type, and it is not like anything ever happens to these devices. In fact, some damage occurs in part, and it is important that the victim also has a guarantee that compensation is provided if necessary — and adequate compensation — in the various cases. For me and for the right, it has been very important to point out that even if you now provide an exception – and we fully agree with that, it is going to be tivioli around the parks in Norway this year as well – you have to make sure that whoever sits up in these facilities has a guarantee that it is both okay and a guarantee of compensation if anything should happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e383	From my childhood I remember well when the tivolite came to the birthdays of Bryne. As a little boy, it was great to be allowed to experience what is today felt like little carousels, but which was then a unique event in a little boy's life. Making it possible for us to continue to be able to have travelling tefolia is important to our society. There are some of the little joys in life. At the same time, it is important to feel safe. Parents should be able to expect that the children — or young people, for that matter — will be able to stand up and that the equipment used is of good quality. Making sure that we have a supervision that does their job, that assesses the risk, that is present, and that has sufficient sanctions, but that is also of an appropriate size, is all we're trying to get. Simplification is also part of government policy. Now, in this case, we get four regulations that become one. It is easier to deal with the actors involved, and for supervision there are actually better-organised powers in the job they are going to do. I think that's important. Some issues have been addressed in this debate. We formulated this text as the committee wanted, it has been inserted, and of course we take it further into our work. We have noticed that the majority of the committee believes that the bill does not open up to delegate the supervisory authority to the private sector. This was the challenge – especially earlier this year – of the uncertainty surrounding insurance schemes, and we note that the committee assumes that the ministry will find solutions to this, so that the year's operating season is not made more difficult. Had we stopped the typhoons from going on the roads, I tipped it had become circus in Stortinget instead. And we're going to avoid that. We have met with the State Railway Authority, Norwegian Circus and the Tivoliier Association and Finans Norway to find solutions. After my letter to the Committee dated 24 January this year, I have been informed that some Norwegian travellers have taken out insurance for objective liability in Norwegian insurance companies, and that the dialogue continues to ensure such insurance from several providers and to several actors. It suggests that this problem has been solved. I am very pleased about that, and I would also like to thank all the actors who have been involved, for reaching agreement on a question where one initially stood a little apart. With that I would like to say that I thank the Stortinget and the Committee for the constructive and good treatment of this matter. With the decisions Stortinget is in front, we will be able to continue working in the department for the changes to take effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e396	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e412	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e428	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e437	If we have not received many enquiries in the three previous cases that we have been dealing with today, we have at least received many enquiries on this matter. This is a matter that involves a lot of people. The road link between Sandvika and Hønefoss, and the future rail link between Oslo, Sandvika and Hønefoss, are issues that involve many people, and which – not least in this room – have started many long discussions over the years. Now we're going to start with an important part of the important road route between Sandvika and Hönefoss. There is basically no major disagreement about the specific matter that we now have to deal with, the case between Bjørum and Skaret. The important thing is to move on, so that we get a new road and railway all the way to Honey Foss. It may be a little confusing for those who read the committee setting when the national transport plan for the current period opened up to the start of the route Bjørum-Skaret. As I understand the situation, and that is to a large extent also mentioned in the proposition, it was that in the big message about the national transport plan, which was being treated four years ago, it was set up for start-up in the second planning period, i.e. from 2018, while at the landfill treatment Stortinget tightened up the construction start. In any case, Stortinget was very impatient and wanted, if possible, to be able to get a previous construction start for the project. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party said, for example. in the committee opinion that one proposes to start the development of the section during the first period of the plan, i.e. 2014-2017. A large majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, Right, SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, indicated that with the funding that lies in the plan, it is possible to start the project in the first four years, and that this presupposes the development of toll financing. We're not there. It is now the start of construction in 2018 and the opening of traffic in 2022, and that timetable must be kept. Now we don't have to have any more deferrals. It's been four years since the regulation plan was adopted, and it's taken four years to get the proposition up to Stortinget, I'm a little surprised. In any case, we must follow the revised timetable, with plant start in 2018. The road between Bjørum and Skaret becomes a new four-field road with a speed limit of 100 km/h. Tolls will be 47 pst. of the financing and State resources 53 p.m. Let's get this going, and let's move on to Sundvollen and Henfoss. In the proposition we are dealing with today, the government writes: ‘The Government provides for a strong overhaul of the construction of new E16 from Skaret to Hønefoss and new Ringeriksbahn.’ It sounded very good, and therefore the committee opinion states that the majority agree with this and assumes that it is followed up in the national transport plan 2018-2029. But of the dozens of leaks that we have now received from the National Transport Plan, that is not the case. There is no strong forcing of the E16 and the Ringeriksbanen. It is quite hopeless for the Storting to discuss this when we have not yet seen the document, but there are a lot of people present in the Chamber here today who have been involved in countless press releases and countless leaks from the transport plan, so they can now be prepared once and for all: what will be the powerful deployment of E16 from Skaret to Hønefoss and the new Ringeriksbahn? It is essential to clarify it in order to gain an understanding of the further development of the very important corridor between Oslo, Sandvika and Hönefoss. Finally, expanding the E16 between Sandvika and Hönefoss is important, no matter what the northern main road link between the East and the West. It's equally important for all three.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e459	This is a matter that has been going on for a long time – no, it has not been going on for a long time, but the road has been built into several stages. Like a lot of other projects in the past, this one is also built into several stages. When you go from Bjørum to Skaret, you're kind of out of Oslopackak 3. The first part of E16 until Bjørum is financed through Oslopacket 3 funds and through tolls collected there. Now it's Bjørum-Skaret that's being built. It is true that a decision was taken in the Stortinget, but it is clear that the State Road Administration did not catch it, because it was not part of the action programme for the first period of the State Road Administration, which was applicable in 2014-2017. They also showed that the distance was to be extended for a different period of time. It's not so interesting to discuss it, because looking at the totality of what's being built between Sandvika and Henefoss, it's a completely different and much more turbulent alternative than what you put up to. So to Ringeriksbanen: In 2002, one was expected to build a track between Sandvika and Hønefoss, which was to be the Ringeriksbanen. In the current NTP, $7.5 billion had been set. kr to Ringeriksbanen. Now you don't just build E16 Skaret–Honefoss, now you build both parts and implement them. It's clear that when you expand the project from being one track on one track to becoming a double track plus a road, it's a significantly larger planning process. And planning funds were not set aside so much in the current NTP either. It has come in a great deal during this period. What's important is to get started with Bjørum-Skaret. After all, a toll company has been established, which has applied for advance tolls, and they have not received them. Now the project is coming. At the same time, we know – and that leakage is not completely removed from the air, to say it like that, and that you now want to build the Ringerix Railway and E16 as one project, at a cost of 28 billion. This connection is much shorter – in time – and also faster than originally planned and thought before entering this period. There's something you can take over as a cause of joy. There is a great deal of consensus about this project. We haven't had so much more to argue about than the times. Now it's coming, and we're all happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e470	Thank you to the rapporteur for a good briefing and thank you to the Committee for a good process. It's an amazingly cosy and positive day today. We're going to adopt an even safer, safe, forward-looking four-field road, and now it's E16 through Buskerud and Akershus. It is the main road from Oslo to the Ring Kingdom and connects the East and the West. Both E16 over Filefjell, rv. 7 over the Hardanger range and Rv. 52 over Hemsedal is important in this context. In NTP 2014-2023, the route is planned to extend the last half of the planning period. There has been a lot of discussion, or at least an attempt at discussion, and the input from the rapporteur here that there are violent delays, but I would say that we are quite well on. Preparatory work is now under way this year and construction starts next year. It's not that violent things, I think, this is basically after the schedule. We then start building up another important national highway. The stretch to be developed is 8.4 km, and it is very badly damaged and heavily traffic-loaded, so it is important to do something about that project. When looking at traffic forecasts, they indicate a growth of only 1 to 1.5 pst, which is based on the current NTP. However, in view of the fact that the E16 is an important national highway between east and west, an important regional road, an important road for housing, travel and business in the region, and from the experience of other motorways, among others. from E6 through Hedmark, at least the Progress Party believes that traffic growth will increase significantly. The cost here is approx. 4,5 B.C.E. kr. Fortunately, the toll ratio is less than 50 pst, and the state share is probably 53 pst. It's used a computational interest rate of 4,5 pst. And I think it's important to point out that it should be lower, it should have been used market interest rates or bound interest rates. Had it, for example, If we had an interest rate of around 3 to 3.5 p.m., we could get passenger fares down to NOK 30, which is better than what's going on there today, and it's important for us in the Progress Party to bring down the bomb rates and look at the grip to get to it. As a result, the Progress Party is pleased that the Committee is also giving that signal. We encourage Akershus and Buskerud county councils to use market interest rates to bring down the bomb tariffs. In this project it is also added to the bomb on side roads. There's something the Progress Party is taking a great distance from. There is no logic in that those who do not use the road, or who do not need new E16, will pay for a way they do not need. The reason why sideways are bombed is to prevent traffic leakage. The progress party refers to the good experience we have from Westfold, where we see that lower bomb tariffs make it possible to avoid having a side-way bomb because there is actually no traffic leakage. So lower bomb charges and the fact that more people are using the road, are leading to a reduction in the lateral load, and there's no reason to put a bomb on side roads. It's important. In addition, we have the toll reform. It could lead to a reduction in bombing tariffs, which could have the same positive effect as in Westfold, namely the removal of bombs by side roads because of the fall in bombing rates. I want to say a little more about this with the claim about delays. I think it makes a big number of it, and it also points out in the form of a comment. It is also pointed out that ‘additional delays are not tolerated’. I think it seems very dramatic, rhetorical. I feel that the Workers' Party has a selection need here, I would say. It's understandable that the Workers' Party is trying to make a number out of it. However, when one looks at the action programme, which has, after the adoption of the NTP, been developed, it clearly shows that all government appropriations would actually come after 2018. That's the way we're in line with the action program, and I don't see the whole reason to take that criticism into consideration. Another argument that was used here, from the rapporteur, was that the road was finished regulated in 2013 – I think it was in June 2013 – that it was all four years ago, and that it is so long. Then I want to remind the Workers' Party that when, for example. as regards E6 through Hedmark, the regulatory plan was adopted before 2013 and they had not even planned to build the four-field motorway from Brumunddal and beyond to Mjøsbrua. So here the Labour Party meets itself a little violently in the door.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e492	E16 is a main route for road traffic between Oslo and Bergen. In addition, there is a main roadway between Oslo, Ringerike, Valdres and Hallingdal. It is also the main road in Bærum. The E16 has a major impact on business and housing throughout the internal region of Upper Busherud and West Uppland. At the same time, we know that there is a lot of traffic on this road in relation to the road standard, and unfortunately there have been too many accidents, including: several meeting accidents. There have been increasing problems with traffic diversion, with delays, unforeseeable travel time and poor pass-by options. That's why it's important to do something here, and it's good that you now get this parcel in place. Work on E16 has been divided into three sections. Now, when we get to the start of the route Bjørum-Skaret, we get an important piece in place in the development of E16 in this area. National transport plan 2014–2023 provides a base of 1.8 billion. EUR 2013 for the project in the last six-year period. The cost estimate has increased by approximately 560 million. kr after the submission of the NTP. The Ministry of Transport is in favour of the increase being distributed between countries and tolls, so that the share of tolls becomes as in the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, and we in the Christian People's Party support this. The Christian People's Party is now concerned that the revised timetable is being followed, and that it will start construction in 2018 and open traffic as expected in 2022. It is important to ensure that there are no further delays in this development. But now we are there, now everything is at the ready for construction, so that we can get a more traffic-proof and more efficient road as quickly as possible. That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e503	That's an important part of E16 we're going to adopt today. It's an accident-prone road and a high-traffic road. I myself – with relatives on Ringerijke – have run it quite many times through my life, and it is quite violent when you stand and push in the traffic and do not get there, even by bus. So it's a good day for both Akershus and Buskerud to adopt this today. I remind you of the rapporteur's good report on the history of the treatment of E16 in the national transport plan, and I think that now we are able to go a little further. However, I fully agree with the rapporteur that we cannot tolerate new delays now. We have to keep progress, so we can have traffic opening in 2022. The center part is also very happy that we see the E16 together with the Ringerix Railway, and thinks that it is a reasonable priority for land use to see the railway and the road together. Finally, I would like to say that there is a proposal from SV to postpone treatment until after we have dealt with the national transport plan. The Center Party can't be a part of this. We believe that it is important to get started, and therefore we support the matter as it exists, with the comments that have been made, from among others. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e514	The size is good at setting overall goals, but the government is quite poor at following the objectives of the Storting. The depressing cross of thought is that when it comes to the problem, the Storting is pretty bad to follow up its own goals as well. But I put a considerable responsibility for this on the practical exercise of the policy that the government is doing. The size has set a target for all growth in passenger traffic in the large urban areas to be taken through public transport, bicycles and corridors. There's no doubt that if you look at the major areas of the East, one of the major regions where there's a lot of traffic, right between Oslo and the Hönefoss area. Also in the Oslo area there are several other of the types of central areas that are axes with a lot of traffic, and where, with the development of four-field motorways, such as the government and the bulk of the population are now adding, expectations are that traffic will increase significantly – that is, contrary to the overall objective of the Stortinget, that all growth in passenger traffic should take place at collective, bicycle and gangways. One of the things that's interesting to notice, and that's come out clearly in recent years, is that if we look at the development of double-tracks for Henefoss, it's in itself a socially profitable investment. If we look at a four-field highway to Hønefoss, it's itself a socially profitable investment, but we're building both parts out, the benefits of society are negative. Making the majority of the population add up to today, namely to deal with the further development of the quadruple motorway, in my opinion, is not a sensible thing to do until we have seen the whole of the further roll-out of both the double track and the motorway in the area. The reason for that is very simple. When we have the government we have, which deliberately pushes – beyond what is necessary – railway investments further ahead in time and prioritizes in the first four years of the next National Transport Plan period to invest in motorways, we risk ending up in a situation where we cannot build the double tracks that the majority of the population have clearly said about our desire. This is why SV proposes – as an alternative to the attitude of the Committee – to ask for this matter to be dealt with in the context of the national transport plan, so that we can look at the further plans and the whole of the further development of the Baltic region, before we say yes to this. I have also come to understand that the Greens are going to support the proposal, which I understand is not going to get a majority here today. But don't say I didn't warn you about this development! Let's say: SV – if anyone – knows what it's like to make an agreement to build Ringeriksbahn with other parties, at the time with the Workers' Party, in exchange for support for a tribal route. It was E16, but there was no Ringerix track. Now we're in a situation where the majority of the Stortinget have clearly stated that you want a Ringerix track. As I said, I am concerned that if you start with the large-scale expansion of the four-field motorway in the first part of the next national transport plan period, and you push on the start of the new Ringeriksbahn, it is certainly not certain that you get any Ringeriksbahn at all. It is bad for the climate, it is bad for the environment, and it is bad for the link between the West and the East. I think that when, in retrospect, we get the story's verdict on the decisions the Stortinget is making in the time we're up in now – where we knew that it was necessary to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, where we knew that there was a real competition between scarce resources on the railway side and on the road side, and yet we started the socio-economic unprofitable development of motorways and railways next to each other, instead of being able to prioritize – it's going to be a tough judgment. But the Council of State has expressed that he does not want to build roads that are not large in size, because that he does not feel to be building for the future. The other of us, who believe that digitisation in the transport sector will lead to less demand for high capacity on the roads, chooses to give priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e529	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e534	It's a pleasure and an honor to be part of it when the Stortinge decides to build a forward-looking road, a road that will serve us for many generations. Some would like to protest, but see that it has no significance for the future, for the future to be digitised, and that means technology on the roads, not just on the railways. Those of us who have run E16 many times know that there's a road map that absolutely needs improvement. Seeing how the road turns out can be charming for those who are on a Sunday tour where they have a lot of time to drive, but in everyday travelling for professional drivers and people who commute daily, it is a road that is not very satisfactory. It has many accidents, it is unforeseeable, and it is energy-intensive and equivalent to environmental pollution. It's important to get it fixed, but it's also important to make sure that the regions are built together, and that's one of the most important reasons why we're doing this. We're going to build both the road and the railway to give people a comprehensive and diverse travel offer, so that those who live like that are the necessary means of travel will travel better, simpler, cheaper and safer without being in line. But we also need to develop a collective offer where the bus arrives faster, where those who can get to a train station and travel comfortably to, for example, Sandvika and Oslo center, or commuting to Drammen and Lillestrøm, can do that. We all have different preferences, we all have different needs, and then we have to make sure that people can choose and not brush them into one distance. One is talking about solving traffic needs in the future with collectives, corridors and bicycles. Yes, I have cycled the North Sea sometimes, but even I would be interested to ride the Henefoss – Oslo every time I went to work. I don't think it's realistic. This way it has been important to get started. It's not the first time we've discussed it, but now it's the first time it's been adopted. It's the first time there's going to be money actually building it, and I'm proud of it. One can discuss whether things are delayed or not. Yes, I think most people would want the decisions to be made many major periods earlier than now, but given that costs have increased, there have been some challenges that we have had to deal with. Nevertheless, we see that we are very good in relation to the form that you wanted earlier. We have also made sure that the cost increase that has been has not increased the toll share in this. Through session discount on tiles - now get a 20 pst. instead of 10 pst. – compensates you for too much of this. In addition, this is one of the road sections that are subject to the reimbursement provided for by the toll reform, where one will receive an additional discount. It's a little bit interesting when the opposition parties try to make a point that there's tolls here, while we know that the red-green opposition is against tolls being compensated to reduce. On the one hand, you criticize it, and on the other hand, you won't be able to do anything about it. Then there's criticism for the criticism, and I don't think that's a point. So this majority has a slightly different approach when it comes to calculating the toll rate. While one before did base 6.5 pst. interest almost in any case, we're adding that here we have a computational interest rate of 4.5 pst, but we're sketching that the rate will be finally designed when we see what the borrowing rate is. This is why both a scenario where the borrowing rate can be more expensive than what we believe today, but also a scenario there, for example. can end at 3.5 pst. Loan rate instead of 4,5 pst. Then we're going to have a further reduction in fares. If, for example: ends at 3,5 pst. borrowing rate, that means a toll discount of 35 pst. compared to what has been a red-green policy in this area. It shows a difference between who's in charge. The most important thing for me now is that we're going to build this road. We're going to make it safer, and we're going to do it better. We also need to build the railway. It is interesting to hear that SV here in Stortinget admits that they have felt cheated under the red-green government – that they have received promises about the railway that have not arrived. I think today's four parties that run, see that we both promised the railroad and set it off. More railways are being built in this country now than ever before, although SV is in opposition. It actually shows that action is about more than party speeches. Not least, we maintain what we already have, so we have managed both to prioritise increased investment funds for the railways and increased maintenance of the railways – while at the same time realizing important road projects such as E16 Bjørum-Skaret.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e555	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e561	The Holmås mentioned about the agreement on the Ringeriksbanen and the tribal road through Valdres, valid enough long before there was a red-green government in Norway. But I'm sure there'll be others who can discuss it later. As I mentioned in my main post, the way we are discussing today, E16 Bjørum-Skaret, was finished regulated in 2013. I know that there has been a discussion in the past about whether the toll company could borrow money and start, so that you could start building up in 2017, because it is absolutely right, what has been said, that there is money in the 2018 action programme. But it was about getting started in 2017, with money from the toll company. It is now not possible with the time schedule available. So my question is simply: how has it been possible to use four years from the adopted regulatory plan until the matter can now be dealt with in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e570	It might be a little bit interesting to have what I would call polemics. But getting criticism from the Workers' Party for time use when we know that the Workers' Party in Hordfast is still discussing where to go for Hordfast – something that the government decided three years ago – is a bit strange. One goes into this matter, I think one will see why it has taken more time than I would have liked. I get shut now from parts of the red-green government because we build too much way, but if the red-green constellation had passed, they would still discuss whether to build this, or if one were to wait until the railroad came. When you get a cost increase of over half a billion dollars, I think it makes sense and natural that we spend time figuring out how to get those costs down, because the cost growth could be much higher if we hadn't spent time on it. In other contexts, I stand in this room and get shut by the Workers' Party when there is a cost increase. Now I get shut up because we even handled it and not just started it. I think we should build the most possible way in this country, and in order to do so we need cost control in the projects, and that's what we've been doing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e581	Now this is not about Brumunddal or Hordfast, but we are discussing E16 Bjørum-Skaret. It was a good clarification to get that it is the Minister of Transport who has decided that the matter should not be submitted to Stortinget until now. There is no disaster, but it could have been possible to start construction one year before, in 2017 instead of 2018. That's what the big crowd says: now, at least, we have to get started in 2018. I hope there's a majority for that. But we have to go on, and as I said, in the proposition, we have the following: ‘The Government provides for a strong overhaul of the construction of new E16 from Skaret to Hønefoss and new Ringeriksbahn.’ After the proposition was presented, it has become known that the same government will postpone these projects, even for several years, if we are to understand the look-up in the papers of the four batches. The question is simply: is there going to be a service, or is there going to be a postponement of the E16 and the Ringerix Railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e593	It may be my dear dialect that means that when I hear the summary from the representative Myrli, I don't quite remember what I said myself. What I pointed out was that it is important to have cost control, but I would like to remind you that we have already granted money to start the project in 2017. There is a part of the pre-work that is done, which requires money. It is not that there is no money for this project. And so it happens faster than it would have done if the previous government had followed up its national transport plan. The same is true of the Ringerix track. I think it's good to remember the story here, because it seems that some questions have a historyless background. If we were to follow up the current national transport plan, which was submitted by the Workers' Party, nothing would have been done on the Ringeriksbahn until after 2023, because there were zero kroner inside that project. Now we've said we're going to do it faster. It will also come out when we present the National Transport Plan on Wednesday, that we have spent money on what we're talking about, so that you can actually start building faster than you would do with today's NTP, and that will be fully funded during the period. This means that things happen faster, simply because today's majority in the United Kingdom view infrastructure as an important investment to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e600	The money the council refers to for E16 Bjørum–Skaret for this year, I think it is the toll company that has borrowed, and that money I don't think has come from the Minister of Transport's box. But we can let that lie. The Minister of Transport is not answering my question at all. My question was: Is there a supply of E16 from Skaret to Hønefoss and a new ringie railway? It's in the proposition, and we have to take seriously what the government is writing in propositions for the Storting. In this Chamber the Minister for Transport said on 13 April 2016 about the Ringeriksbanen: ‘In 2019, the Earth’s Spade, in 2024, is to be completed simply because we have changed the planning methods. It costs a little more money now, but overall it saves a lot of money in the operation." No one here noticed any reservations – that is, in 2019, the Earth's spade. My question is, simply: Is the Earth going to the Ringerix Railway in 2019, or are there any evictions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e614	I do not know how many line changes I have had in this room where I have answered a question, and the representative Myrli recalls that he has not received an answer to it. I think it's a bit of a strange kind of debate, especially when we know that it's being recorded from this. In school debates, this method tends to work, but in major debates it doesn't work. What I pointed out in my previous answer was that if a reader reads documents from the red-green government, there are zero dollars to the Ringerix Railway. National transport plan from the red-green government in force from 2014 to 2023. That means that any krone that comes before 2023 will be an acceleration. When it comes to billions of dollars before 2023, I would say it's a significant acceleration. So even if the documents have not yet been submitted, I can promise that the Ringeriks course will start considerably before 2023. But then information has come, as it does in some projects, which means that what was my starting point when I spoke has been moderated because the cost has increased, because the risk has occurred or similar. There have been such elements in the Ringerix track, which means that it is still being accelerated compared to the previous government. There's money being deposited, which the previous government didn't, but not quite so fast... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e623	First of all, it's not right, what the Council of State says about the Ringerix Railway and the red-green national transport plan, but we're going to make a later article. I repeat my question, and now I'm talking about the Ringerix Railway, let history be history, but the Council of State itself said that in 2019 the Earth's spade. Then I repeat the question, simple and simple: Is the Earth going for a walk in 2019?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e630	History cannot be history when a person asks questions about history. Then I actually think it's worth going into the facts here. What is the essence here – in a matter that is not about the E16 project that we are actually discussing here, but which is nevertheless relevant – is whether it is accelerating or not. I have given the answer, now for the third time: there will be billions of dollars earlier than before in the project. I concluded my previous answer by pointing out that there is a certain risk that has been revealed, which means that we spend a little more time before the spade goes into the ground, than I had originally said, but nevertheless many years earlier than if the previous government had continued. I think that's the essential thing. I think it is very good that the Workers' Party in the opposition has become very offensive in terms of building the road and the railway, because we saw when we took over in 2013, that the decay on the railway had increased for eight consecutive years. The downturn on the roads had increased in all the years. We're reducing the maturity on the road and on the railway. There are fewer projects that are delayed now, than it was before, but even with a civil government it sometimes shows up problems that we had not foreseen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e637	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e644	One of the most important transport projects in the western part of Oslo is the development of E16 between Sandvika and Hønefoss. The route Stortinget is now in favour of, is an important part of this route in the municipality of Bærum. This is crucial for an area that is under constant pressure, and it is good that the Storting is today ready to take this decision. It is not too early; this is a project that has already been put at risk for several years in relation to what has been planned. On the part of the Labour Party, it must be stressed in this debate that there are now no new delays and that what is now the timetable has to be kept so that there can be a traffic opening in 2022. About half of the cost of the project is to be taken by the drivers themselves through tolls. It is never popular to ask for more tolls, but it is necessary to finance the project. No tolls – no way. It is a recognition that now also seems to sink into the representatives of the Progress Party. ‘A day of joy’, we heard the Progress Party open with, when they go in for a project where half of the money comes from tolls. They promised that when they came into government, all bombings would be removed. Instead, Solvik-Olsen is the Minister of Transport in history who has demanded most of the money, and the representatives of the Progress Party from Buskerud and Akershus are currently breaking an important election vow when the road project today receives exactly as much toll as planned. We heard the state council boast that the share of tolls has not increased in this project. I think most of the leaders of the Advance Party saw something quite different, because the voters of the Advance Party voted for all the tolls to be removed. They have reason to feel cheated and cheated. They have got something quite different from what they voted for. The party of progress has tricked its own voters and said that the tolls should be removed. It has given them positions themselves, but in position they have given something quite different. This must be the biggest lifting break ever given by any party, and today's case is probably an example of that. It should be taken with the voters when the representatives of the Party meet again the voters for the autumn. At the polling in Akershus now in March, the Progress Party has fallen by almost 5 pst. It may seem that voters will punish the Advance Party for their many violations of promises. With these comments, we say from the Labour Party that we are very pleased that we are now going into this matter. We are pleased that we are now getting started on the Bjørum-Skaret project. The working party looks forward to following the work, and we look forward to the opening of the traffic in 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e659	I just have to say that I'm a little impressed with SV, but impressed with negative sign. They do not give in to the fierce fight they have against cars and drivers, and therefore I must almost say I am impressed, for here are SV opponents of the fact that cabin tourists, travel, business, all who travel along the E16, will arrive safely and come forward faster. It seems to me that I am mildly alert, but that is what the voters of SV want, the few voters who are left. It's worth noting. And I wonder a little about what the idea of SV is: one thing is that they might be negative to the car from a pollution perspective, but when you see that the car tax changes that we have implemented now lead to more and more environmentally friendly cars – there are more electric cars, more hybrid cars, the January emissions were 83 grams, several years ahead of what is in the climate agreement – and that newer cars will become even more environmentally friendly, what is the problem? Sorry, President, but I can't see the problem in that the drivers and the Norwegian people can come safely, quickly and efficiently to work or to the cabin. There's no difference, either train or car. We actually need both. Then I would like to say a little something to the rapporteur, Sverre Myrli, who points out to the minister that there is a difference between E6 and E16. Yes, the difference is that the road goes through different areas, and one has a 1 in front of the 6. Swearing Myrli and the Workers' Party are trying to make a big number out of maybe a year's delay here, but the principle there is very important, when you know that, for example. E6 northwards through Brumunddal – if I did not remember errors, I was in and I adopted the regulation plan, which was in 2011 – would expire on the date when the current NTP, adopted by Sverre Myrli, would have been completed. That is, we had to start regulating again, and the road was not even embedded in the NTP. Then you don't talk about a year of delay, then you talk about it not even being involved at all. Then there are many, many years of delays! It says a little about how the Workers' Party prioritizes – or how the Workers' Party does not prioritize. So a few comments about the toll critique that came up here on the sideline of the interview: we live in a democracy, and in a democracy, the majority is the one who decides. The progress party doesn't have a majority, we're tidy and honest and honest, but we're still fighting a tough fight against tolls, we work against tolls every day. One example here, on which the minister himself was involved, is that we double the bomb discount, from 10 pst. until 20 p.m., for those who have a chip. The state share has increased in bomb projects. The toll percentage of the drivers has fallen. In a matter we're going to deal with afterwards, half of the price is on the sideways. It had never been given without the fight the Progress Party fights against tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e674	Just some reflections about the debate we have just experienced. I think it's very good that an E16 is being built out. There are now more than 60 major road projects going on around the country. This happens because more money is allocated to the state budget for road construction now than ever before. The State Budget in the Ministry of Transport is over 63 billion. kr in 2017. When we took over, it was approx. 41 B.C.E. kr, adjusted up because the Coastal Works came into the department. That's an increase of over 50 pst. The growth rate in the last four years has been much higher than in the previous eight years. Then it's a little strange to get criticism for a claim of delay – when we know that when 2013 was over, there were twenty road projects that you could point out were delayed, while the number is now halved and the delays that are, largely due to new information about harder ground conditions and more difficult planning solutions than what was before, little lack of money. We have also shown that – we have spent a lot of money, a lot more on maintenance to simply reduce the downturn on the roads. Then we experience in this room that on the one hand we get criticism that the road is not being built quickly enough, although nothing suggests that the critic would make it faster, rather vice versa. On the other hand, we get criticism from the same red-green constellation that we're building this road at all – this road should have been completely unnecessary, because people are going to bike and go or take the bus in the future, even though I know that the bus on this route is a very little comfortable traveling exercise for people. So one should not make it attractive to take a bus, but rather refuse to drive a car. I think that is a bad solution. But how the opposition, which criticises here, should at all find a common solution, would have been interesting to know. Then we see that the Labour Party continues the criticism for the criticism. They almost appreciate the fact that the drivers have to pay tolls. Yeah, like FrPs, I don't like it, I've fought the fight to reduce the toll ratio. We have won out on some of these projects, but I accept that the bulk of the population has a different view. The interesting thing is that the Workers' Party has voted against when the government has proposed to cut tolls. They have voted against it when we have proposed to cut tolls in the state budget. The working party has also proposed to increase the fuel tax far beyond what has been agreed in the Stortinget. The working party has proposed a higher annual fee than is currently the case and a higher one-off fee. Then gives the impression that the drivers should be disappointed because the Progress Party is in government. The same drivers would have to pay the whites out of their eyes if they had the Workers' Party as their friend in Stortinget. It would have been a precious affair.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e689	I have to say that it is a bit alarming that it is not possible to get a single answer, a single point of view, on the further progress of the link closer to Henefoss. Then I just have to say to the representative Johnsen, who made it as if I had said there's a lot of delays, that I've never said that. But at Bjørum-Skaret, it's about one year from now – if it was possible to get started one year earlier. It's at Bjørum-Skaret. Then I tried, and I think I was reasonably pedagogical and said it several times, but now I repeat it again, so the representative Johnsen can bring it with him. The discussion goes on from Skaret – about Sundvollen and to Hönefoss. Now we beat Bjørum-Skaret, so it's okay. But further – there I have not said anything about that there will be delays. I have asked the question, and I referred to a quote from the Minister of Transport, not anywhere, from the Stockholm pulpit. I asked the question three times, because he has therefore said that construction starts, that the spade goes into the ground – I assume it is the same as construction start – in 2019. I asked the question, I think it was three times, but I get no answer. So in a situation where the four parties that have now made up their national transport plan have been land and beach around and presented leaks, we do not get a single comment from any of the government parties or the two supporting parties: what goes on with Skaret-Sundvollen-Hønefoss? I don't think it would have been strange if Stortinget could also get a trace of the information we have been able to read in local ways. The Minister of Transport is talking about major delays and difficult groundwork. I stand here with a letter from the Council of the Ringerix Region. It is signed by the rapporteurs in Jevnaker, Hole and Ringerijk. As far as I know, there is both red colour and blue colour on the party book of those who are rapporteurs there. It says: ‘According to the Head of the Ringeriksbane/E16 Morten Klockkersveen Joint Project, ‘they are ahead of the planning schedule and it will be fully possible to start work in the field in 2019.’» I assume that those rapporteurs do not misinform what they write. So the Minister of Transport is pushing the Road Administration in front of him when he says that there are problems with the planning work. I don't think that's true. I think the Minister for Transport has come to realize that he too has limited money. When the money bag is too small, he has to postpone projects, and I just think we can establish that there will be no construction start on the Ringeriksbanen in 2019, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e710	The representative Myrli has probably brought with him the criticism that we have been subjected to by his colleague Dag Terje Andersen to provide too many details on matters that have not yet been submitted to the Stortinget. Therefore, it may be appropriate to say that the details of Skaret–Hønefoss, as he calls for, will appear in the national transport plan submitted before Easter. However, I listened carefully to the Council of State's response, and I think he answered Myrli's question several times, so I encourage the representative Myrli to read the minutes of today's debate in order to clarify what he is asking. But the sum total is that we now get both four-field highway and railway from Sandvika to Hønefoss. It's a pleasure for a lot of people, and we get it faster than the red-green government did. There is also good reason to rejoice with the many who use this road every day, and for the many who want to get ahead faster by rail in a climate-friendly and comfortable way from Oslo to Hønefoss, without having to drive the roundabout of the Drammen, as one must today. So there's a lot to enjoy, and it's good that there's a broad consensus about the discussion we really have today: the discussion about the Bjørum-Skaret, where the spade is put in the ground if not too long, and we can enjoy a new, effective way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e719	I understand that neither Astrup will listen to what I say, nor give me an answer. But then the representatives here in Stortinget from the four parties who are behind what is now supposed to come on Wednesday, presented by a proposal for a national transport plan, can at least listen to local batch traps from the four batches. I have registered things through the local press, but as I said, it is not possible for us to debate this in any other way until we have seen the document. That's why I have tried to get answers to the questions here today: What's in the agreement, and when is the construction start on Ringeriksbanen and E16? But we haven't got an answer. But to my point. At least they could listen to the local parties, because I have registered through the newspapers that there are very many in the four parties that are dissatisfied with what is now supposedly to be presented on Wednesday. I mentioned the rapporteurs in the region, but I can refer to another letter. It is a letter from three leased-in planning companies, a letter dated 20 March 2017, entitled ‘The Ringeriksbanen and E16 joint project. Severe reduction in staff due to the budgetary situation.» March 20 – a very new letter. So this isn't something Swearer Myrli or anyone else has invented. This is a major debate taking place in the district, a major debate throughout the Ringeriks region, where one is concerned about the progress of Ringeriksbanen and E16 further from Skaret to Hønefoss. I would like to stress that I hope that everyone will work as quickly as possible, but I have not found the uncertainty that has arisen. It is the government and representatives of the four parties who are behind what is supposedly coming on Wednesday, who have created. So I thought that we could try to use this opportunity two days before that plan is to be presented – since we have the start of the road project, the first link, for treatment here today, and there is a context here – to get a debate on further progress in the matter. But I realize that we don't get, and not even quite specific questions about when the spade goes into the ground, when it's a construction start, we get answers to. I really hope that what comes on Wednesday is offensive and good, but then there must be something quite different from what has been the leaks in the local press so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e728	: I understand that the representative Myrli would prefer to discuss the Ringeriksbanen and Skaret–Honefoss today, but that is not the matter we have to deal with. I could imagine making posts about many other road sections that we don't have to deal with right now, but I don't intend to do that, out of respect for the hall and for the Storting. So when we have a debate about Bjørum-Skaret, we do not have a debate about the Ringeriksbanen, but about Bjørum-Skaret. In terms of creating uncertainty, just to take it into account: the uncertainty created by the Labour Party members in the Oslo Local Team on the development of the E18 West Corridor, which can also be said to be a project related to Bjørum-Skaret, is far greater than the uncertainty that might have been created about Skaret-Hønefoss and beyond. And the answers requested by the representative Myrli have already been received – and will be further elaborated when the national transport plan is presented in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e737	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e753	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e762	First, I want to thank the Committee for the good work and cooperation on this matter, or it might be better to say these things, that's the fv. 17/ fv. 720 Dyrstad-Sprova-Malm, changed the bomb tariffs on the side roads of E16 Kongsvinger-Slomarka and increased the cost framework for the E6 Helgeland north we deal with. Route 17 is the main road between Steinkjer and Namsos. Together with Fv. 720 links fv. 17 together the municipalities of Inherred and the municipalities of Fosen and Namdalen. Funding is based on county funds and tolls. Construction start is 2017 and opening for traffic in 2019. Route 17 has a bad standard. The heavy traffic share on the route is 13-16 pst. In general, there is a poor standard with poor or no offers for cycling and walking. The ÅDT varies from 1 400 to approx. 4 100, and it's a low ÅDT, really a very low ÅDT to be able to finance the road. The annual traffic growth is estimated to be around 1 pst. – I would say it may seem somewhat low. As I pointed out earlier in this room, recent figures show that traffic growth actually increases more when you get a safe, safe and new way to drive. But it's the current NTP that adds leads there, and it says that between 1 and 1.6 pst. That's what's supposed to be the template. The local policy decision here calls for toll financing. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has voted against this. It has to be 50 pst. county funds and 50 pst. toll financing. But the joy is that the toll discount for those who have a chip, also here, is doubled from 10 to 20 pst. Another thing that is important to point out is that if the economy of the project becomes poor, the recovery period can be increased to 20 years – extended by 5 years, from 15 to 20. That may be a wise measure. Or it could also be an increase in the bombing rate. I think it is important to point out that, in terms of experience, lower market interest rates or the binding of interest rates, as the majority of the Committee has also pointed out and wishes, could give a lower interest rate than the calculation technical interest rate, which today is 5.5 pst., which in turn could lead to a lower rate of bombing and faster depreciation, and perhaps also generate increased traffic, as we have seen on several road sections, such as, among other things. E18. In the case of E16 Kongswinger–Slomarka, half of the price has now been introduced into the booms on the side roads. It's a nice thing to do. But with regard to the comments from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, there is an attempt to create the impression that government parties and government representatives have contributed to creating confusion about the toll collection on the side roads. I'll take a great distance from that. I almost think it's a little rough to say it. Either the Workers' Party and the Centre's party do not know the matter, or they obviously have not agreed on what has happened here. Here the government has been trying to find a solution for three years. It requires agreement with the county council, and if the county council disagrees, there will be no solution. So here the government has actually been very patient. The Minister has proposed a number of different solutions: moving the bombs, removing the bombs, reducing the number of bombs. Finally, there was a reduction in the rate of bombing – half price, 50 pst. reduction – for which there was a final agreement, local and government. So it's positive. Half price – it is a happy day for the drivers. Traffic forecasts for E16 also indicate a low increase – 1 to 1.6 pst. We'll also believe that's something artificially low, so it can get higher. In the case of E6 Helgeland North — Bolna–Korgen — there has been an increased cost framework, an increase of more than 600 million. kr. It is important that the scale of development is reduced so that the cost framework is not exceeded. The increase in the state share and the increase in tolls will be distributed as in the distribution key, i.e. approx. 80 pst. State share, high State share, and approximately 20 pst. tolls. It is important that there is a little extra money put into it, as I said before, the cost increase now, so you can cover it. In fact, lower interest rates could lead to more money being brought into the project, based on higher interest rates than those used as market rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e785	It's a long way from this country we live in. And people live everywhere. It's a result of a wild policy because the resources we live on are found in the sea, in the forest and in the earth. Breeding salmon often begin their journey to the market on a country road, not a national road. The county roads are now twice the size of the highways, and it's 50 pst. more likely to be killed or seriously injured if a person is driving a country road ahead of a national road. It's not acceptable. I am therefore pleased, on behalf of my colleagues in the Nord-Trøndelag, who have been working for a long time to get them repaired and relocated. 17 and Fv. 720 between Steinkjer and Namsos including Malm, that we can finally adopt the toll proposition today, step one in the Stortinget. The North Rounds have been waiting a long time for this. I hope they don't have to wait the same time for stage two to be adopted. Many of Norway’s resources are available in this region, and it has been problematic that today’s fv. 17 between Tierstad and Sprova is of poor standard. The road is narrow with many runs, and it is curved and unobtrusive. This creates disadvantages for heavy traffic, and it creates situations that are partially road-hazardous, especially for pedestrians and cyclists. On the routes to be corrected and restated, from 2005 to 2015, a total of 40 accidents involving personal injury, unfortunately 3 fatal accidents, have been recorded. The situation for fv. 17 and Fv. So 720 has been insensitive for a long time. And in February of this year, even representative Elin Rodum Agdestein of the Right in the North-Trondelag said with relief and great joy that finally, now comes the toll proposition for Fv. 17 and Fv. 720. The working party does not want to contribute to more training than has been the case. Following today's decision, the project could be launched into the ground this year, so that the road will be completed in 2019. The project E16 Kongsvinger–Slomarka in Hedmark was opened to traffic already in autumn 2014 and the project is partly financed by tolls. The working party today takes note of the discussion that has taken place since the opening of the traffic between local authorities and the ministry, and insofar as the Stortinget is concerned, in the case of adjusted collection arrangements for the route. We support the proposal for the adjusted collection plan, but will point out that it is unfortunate that the adjusted collection plan in the local press was announced to be introduced from 27 March – without the matter being dealt with in Stortinget. Finally, the cost increase on the E6 Helgeland North. The working party does not oppose the provisional solution in the proposed proposal, but we will at the same time underline the same today as we stated in December in connection with the treatment of the current year's budget. It is important that the initial scale and progress of development are maintained, and that the government should continue to work towards a mutually agreed solution with local authorities before finally considering the scope of the development and the cost framework of the project. This must, of course, be done in time for necessary renegotiations with the contractor under contract. If the government chooses to go in to significantly reduce the project, it is not exactly in line with the promises of the Progress Party and the Right on more comprehensive and coherent development – especially given the availability of equipment and personnel. The final deadline for this to be resolved under the contract is September 2017, incidentally just at the same time as another important contract to be concluded – namely the electoral contract between the inhabitants and the political parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e804	The rapporteur has given a good account of the various projects involved in this proposition, so I will make some comments to the individual. Route 17 is the main road between Steinkjer and Namsos. Together with Fv. 720 links fv. 17 together the Inherred municipalities and the municipalities of Fosen and the Namdalen and are important for both value creation and development. The standard of the county road is not satisfactory and, on the initiative of local authorities, a proposal has been made for a gradual improvement of these two county roads. Step 1 funding is based on county funds and tolls, where the toll ratio is 50 pst, in line with local policy decisions. It will be added to plant start-up in 2017, with traffic opening in 2019. This is a road with a relatively high share of heavy traffic, and offers are lacking for both walking and cycling. As you can see, this is a good project both for accessibility and for road safety. In this project, too, it is reasonable to assume that the market rate could be lower than the technical interest rate. It provides an opportunity to reduce tariffs if there is local interest in it or if the project can be paid down faster than intended. There is also a pass-by roof in tariff group 1, which is particularly important for those who use the road the most. The project E16 Kongsvinger–Slomarka in Hedmark has previously been dealt with in Prop. 104 S for 2010–2011 and in Prop. 32 S for 2014-2015. I am pleased that a solution has now been reached to halve the bomb tariffs on the side roads. In principle, there is reason to be careful with side-by-side bombs for local traffic, while specific assessments must be made on a case-by-case basis. It's done here, and you've come up with a half-tariff solution. It is also gratifying that the derogation system for those living in Galterud and Fulu is being continued. In the case of the project E6 Helgeland North, it appears that the cost is higher than initially assumed. The final cost forecast has now increased to 2.4 billion. 2017 krones. Compared to the initial cost framework, this is an increase of nearly half a billion dollars. In line with the corresponding project, and in line with the Storting decision, it is provided that the cost framework is to be respected and that exceedances are to be covered by reductions in the overall development project. Assessments show that it is possible to refinance the increase in costs associated with the repair of the Raudfjellfors-Krokstrand section without increasing the State allocations, but using the space for action provided by the lower borrowing rate. It is positive and allows this project to be implemented as planned. In order to adapt the total project to exceed costs, as we see in this project, there is an option to cancel work on the sections Krokstrand Centrum and Krokstrand-Bolna. The deadline for putting the option into service and cancelling work on these sections, if any, expires in September 2017. The government recommends that we await the treatment of the national transport plan in our future before deciding whether to use the option. It's in our opinion a good strategy and gives the Storting an opportunity to see this in an overall context, which is also time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e821	As the rapporteur has explained, this is a matter of fv. 17 and Fv. 720 in Steinkjer and Verran municipalities in Nord-Trøndelag. These are two roads linking the Inherred municipalities and the municipalities of Fosen and Namdalen. These are important pathways for development and value creation in the region. New and repaired road on fv. 17 and Fv. 720 Tierstad-Sprova-Malm will provide better and more efficient access. Travel time along fv. 17 is reduced by several minutes, while travel time between Asp and Malm is reduced by up to eight minutes, actually the whole 40 pst. reduced travel time on this route. But as important as reducing travel time, we are now getting much better road safety. This will give us a much safer road, and in addition, the environment will improve along the way of the day. New fv. 17 on the south side of Hjellbotn will relieve the Vellamen centre of too much heavy traffic. It's a bad standard on the road of the day. On the route Dyrstad-Ostvik the road is narrow with many runs, and on the north side of Hjellbotn the road is curved and unobtrusive. This is dangerous for traffic, and unfortunately there have been too many accidents, including tragic ones. Traffic safety must always be a high priority, and therefore a new road is important to get in place, so that both private cars and heavy transport can have a safer travel everyday. The Christian People's Party supports the project, and so does the others that are set out in the proposal, linked to the adjusted collection schedule for E16 in Hedmark and E6 Helgeland. Otherwise, I refer you to the rapporteur's good review.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e832	I am pleased that the Stortinget now gives its support to a number of different roads, both road projects where one is going to build a new one, road projects that are under construction, and the reduction of the toll burden on motorists in some places. With regard to the development of fv. 17/ fv. 720 Tierstad-Sprova-Malm, it is a stretch where there is a need for improvement. At the initiative of local authorities, proposals have been made for the re-establishment of the county road between Steinkjer and Namsos and for the re-transition of the county road from the crossing with Fv. 17 to Malm in the municipality of Verran. It has been set up for staged development with the restoration and conversion of fv. 17 on the route Tierstad-Sprova-Malm and conversion of Fv. 720 to Malm in the first step. Step 2 will be subject to measures in fv. 17 further northwards from Sprova to Namsos. So this proposition applies to step 1. The funding is based on the wish that one has had locally about 50–50 fifty distributions between county funds and tolls. It is added to construction start now in 2017 with traffic opening in 2019. We have noted comments from part of the batches, which point out that the toll load here can be seen as unreasonable for some. We also notice that a point is that a real borrowing rate should be taken into account, so that the toll burden is minimised. The parties may disagree on the way the road is financed, but I think everyone here agrees that when the road is first built, it's a good thing for the community. Just trying to reduce the toll burden is one of the things that was included in the project on E16 that opened in autumn 2014. The government has already made some adjustments, which make people living in Galterud and Fulu an exception. Now one goes on and halves the price of the toll stations that are on the side roads here. It's also part of making sure that when people first run on a new road, the acceptance – even if you're against tolls – will be bigger there, while the acceptance will be very small to pay tolls on existing roads. We do this for a one-year trial period together with the local authorities to see how it develops, and to take the utmost account. So we'll sit down and make an evaluation. The aim is of course to be able to have that arrangement further. I record that the Workers' Party and the Center Party think this is inexorable and creates confusion around tolls on side roads. It doesn't surprise me all the time the Workers' Party and the Center Party have had the habit of just introducing tolls without any care for those who are driving on the roads. The fact that getting a discount in a toll station can be seen as confusing for the Workers' Party does not surprise me. Anyway, I think there's something good, and we'd rather try to do more of that. Then I register that the Workers' Party and the Center Party usually tend to protest at this. It shall not stop the government from making the toll less burdensome for its inhabitants. The third case is the project E6 Helgeland North, a very important road project. After driving the whole route in the summer of 2014, there is no doubt that the route needs to be corrected. I am also very pleased – after discussing this for many, many years under different governments – that these sections of the road are actually being repaired. Both for the route on Helgeland North and Helgeland South, there will be money in 2017. Road projects are already under construction. It is only to be used in 2017 almost 1 billion. kr on this route. I have registered that local labour party politicians believe that the region is forgotten. Then I think it's good to remember that the billion that only comes in 2017, is more than what came in almost eight red-green years before that. It shows that the region has the highest degree of memory. What's the challenge is that there's a cost increase in the project of almost half a billion dollars. That's money we have to deal with. That is why the government is working, and we are going to work on the proposal from the Workers' Party – an unnecessary proposal all the time the government is already on the ball. But we need to keep working to see how we can get cost exceedances down, how we, together with entrepreneurs, local authorities and road authorities, can find solutions that allow one to complete the road as well as possible within the cost frameworks that Stortinget has given us. Now we have found a solution that makes a parcel of guaranteed included in the project. Then we're going to work on the last two, but as I said, we're going to have to deal with the decisions the Stortinget makes. All in all, this means better ways in many parts of the country, and it comes in addition to the more than 60 road projects already under way. That means that if a traveler on a Norway holiday this summer, one could enjoy excavators and people in yellow vests in many places.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e849	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e854	Let me start by saying that if the Council of State was so concerned that there was too much toll, he could just not put forward toll propositions in the Stortinget – if he thinks it's the wrong policy. Let me talk about the E6 Helgeland North, where a joint committee has expressed the importance of implementing the entire project, and I understand that the Council shares the opinion. The Council of State stated that he would continue to work with local and regional authorities and entrepreneurs to find a solution for the implementation of this project – the whole project – as originally planned. We're in a hurry. The option goes out, as was said from the pulpit here earlier, in September this year. Then my question becomes: how will the Council of State work to ensure that unnecessary costs or delays do not occur and that a solution can be found with local and regional authorities before September 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e861	I want to work as I have already done, to contact local rapporteurs, local authorities, local road authorities and contractors, precisely because that is the way to find solutions. Making sure that the ministry and the Vegvesenet work with the local actors is the way to find these solutions. It's quite obvious to me. We have already had a lot of contact. I've been thinking about looking at the project during this summer, just to be present and discuss whether there are solutions that a thinker can be relevant locally, but that there may be a conflict about – but I don't know if there is anything like that now. It is also very exciting that the Workers' Party says that if the government is against tolls, it is only to present road projects without tolls. It is a little strange that when the government has proposed to cut tolls, the Labour Party votes against. When it has been proposed that tolls should be introduced into the State budget to reduce the toll share, the Labour Party will vote against it. It would have been very interesting to hear what the Workers' Party sometimes thinks – not just what kind of criticism they have against other parties. Is the Workers' Party to cut tolls? Is there something you want to give priority to? It might be interesting if the Workers' Party said something about it itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e869	In the case of tolls, the Council of State has chosen to make a wide range of toll proposals. We have to assume that it is an expression of the policy that the Council of State actually pursues. We have supported the toll proposals that have been put forward. The Council of State was not very clear on what solutions he saw to put in place before September concerning the E6 Helgeland North. There are several local initiatives here. The Municipal Council of Rana has discussed the matter and debated it. In these days there is a similar case in the county of Northern Ireland. The question is: will the Council of State listen to the ideas and proposals for solutions that have been put to it locally, or does the Council of State have other solutions to ensure that he meets the wishes of the Stortinge that this whole project be developed?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e876	This government is practicing a policy where we listen to local recordings. It would be nice if someone didn't. So it's kind of strange, really, to get such a question, because that might indicate that other governments have had a different approach. At least we're going to listen to local politicians, entrepreneurs, business people, truck drivers, the Road Service, excavators – what it's supposed to be – precisely because they like to have the sum of a competence that's far more than the individual has, and that's what we need to find solutions. When I go up to visit them, and when I have them in my office, it's just to get these experiences and look for solutions. Then it is also a little strange – to go back to the tolls again – that the Workers' Party is once again trying to give the impression that they are more than willing to cut tolls, when we know that when the Stortinget gets things from the government to treatment that involve proposals to cut tolls, the Workers' Party is against. So once again, it would have been interesting to know if the Workers' Party has its own position, or if the entire ageing period is only about criticizing the position of others without thinking anything of itself. Will the Workers' Party be involved in reducing toll rates when the projects are proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e885	The County Council and the county council in Nord-Trøndelag have worked a long time to get them upgraded. Seventeen in the county. Already in the new year 2016, the then County Council of the Right had a meeting with the undersigned that the Stortinget had to deal with the toll proposition for F.17 before the summer of 2016 to keep progress in the project. Now we're here, in this room, one year later. We have the toll proposition here, but it's a fact that this toll proposition has been disproportionate for a long time and was waiting in the department before the Stortinget had the opportunity to discuss it. Then really is my question to the Council of State: why has the Council of State spent so long on this particular county road?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e890	I can assure you that propositions do not lie and dwell in the department. There are processes around them that are sometimes processes that have been established a long time ago, under different governments, but are about quality assurance. This project is so big that one has so-called quality assurance processes around it, and these are things that we have to deal with. If you can't be quite sure that party traps by the representative tongue will take me into a control committee to ask why we haven't followed the normal procedure. I am pleased that we now have the project here, that we have it adopted and that we are starting construction. This government does not say no to road projects. We have experienced earlier today that other government constellations are against the road project, but no one has to doubt that the government and the civil side think it makes sense to build more roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e897	It is positive that the Council of State engages in dialogue with both entrepreneurs and the municipalities concerned to find solutions for the latest projects, both Krokstrand, Krokstrand-Bolna and the road safety measures in Hemnes and Rana. That's necessary if we're going to get a really complete expansion. But one prerequisite for the whole project E6 Helgeland was to build from the North-Trøndelag border to Saltberg, and there is still a lack of a parcel that was part of the assumption, and the assumption was that one should be finished by 2020 with the entire route. I see that the discussions are going quite strongly on Helgeland about whether it is realistic to achieve. How will the Council of State ensure that the entire route is fully developed? Then I also ask about the parcel that we do not know enough about now, Brenna–Brattås–Lien, which is also an important part.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e902	It is a bit interesting when red-green politicians point to a road project that has not been completed – a road project that was part of the previous national transport plan without one getting started with them, and now there is a sudden crisis when today’s government spends 1 billion. kr, and that's not enough. There is a little evidence of a different standard for what you have delivered, and what you expect others to deliver. We can't solve all the problems in a few years, but look around the road network, one sees that it's being built more now than ever before, and it's being maintained more than ever before. Collected aftermath after many years of both red-green government and other governments are now beginning to be taken down, because we see infrastructure as an important part of society's functions, in cities, in towns and rural areas – north, south, east and west. E6 Helgeland north and south gets almost 1 billion. kr only in 2017. Then the other sections are in. Now we're going to deal with the National Transport Plan in this hall in a few months. It's presented on Wednesday, and there it's natural to look at the whole of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e909	I remind the Council of State that a little bit of the situation we've come up with is because the government withdrew the proposition that was made in 2013, which delayed the project, and which led to a slightly different situation on the E6 Helgeland north than what we could have had. So I am glad that the Council of State suggests that we should read in NTP about Brenna–Brattås–Lien, but will the Council of State ensure that we get a complete expansion of the entire route by 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e914	Now there are many, many miles – yes, almost ten miles by road on Helgeland. I think everyone who's going to drive there this summer – great place to vacation – will experience that there's a lot more happening now than it's ever happened before. The fact that red-green politicians locally try to create negativity around this, says more about an election fight than about realities. I also record that the Center Party is now critical that we spent some time in the autumn of 2013 processing the landfill proposal on E6 Helgeland North. Well, for the drivers running that route, the result is that the state takes over 300 million. kr more of the bill. It's a toll station smaller, it's lower rates. We've seen in the past that making tolls is not something that takes on red-green politicians, but it actually takes on a lot of drivers. Then I think it makes sense that we spent some time doing the bombing project better for the drivers than the red-greens had chosen, and then that's not the problem, as the cost growth has been. It's completely different from the months we spent in the fall of 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e921	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e928	I think this might be a bit reprisal of a debate that has been between me and Johnsen in the past, about tolls on side-by-side networks. Just to make it clear: there is no one who wants to get tolls on the side road network if you can avoid it. My point – and I think I've said it before from this pulpit – is that it has to be assessed on a case-by-case basis, and one has to go in and find solutions in each toll case. If a person does not have tolls on the side-road network, often traffic increases significantly on the side-road network — perhaps through residential areas and other areas where more traffic is not desirable. I repeat what I have said before, and as I think there is really a broad consensus in this room, that one must look at each case and find solutions where one takes care of those who do not drive on and do not enjoy a new road, so that they do not pay tolls – as far as possible, while also not much traffic is desirable on the local road network. But no road projects are the same, and no local road networks are the same, so there must be solutions on a case-by-case basis. I don't think it's too strong to say that there's been any confusion about what kind of toll scheme it's going to be on the E16's side road network. I think one can find quite a lot of suggestions in the newspaper Glamdalen and elsewhere about Johnsen and local party traps of him, as one day has said something, and about representatives of the State Road Service, who have said something else. At first there was no toll on the road at all – it was. Then there were no tolls on the side-road network at all – it was. Then there was a discussion about what kind of solutions those who did not use the side roads at all – those who live in the area around Fulu and Knutsrud, on the north side of Glomma, and those who live on Galterud, on the south side of Glomma – would get. For a long time, they got a system in which they could not pay. I just want to say: it was good, it was nice that there was a solution to that question – all praise for it – which we have also supported here. We also support the proposal now before us to introduce a half-bomb tariff on the side roads. I just want to clarify: we support it, we think it's a nice and sensible solution. As the Minister of Transport also said, there is a one-year trial plan, and if this means that there is not much traffic on the side-road network compared to today, that is a good solution. But it's a one-year trial plan, and I'll say for the second time, we support it, it's a nice solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e939	I think there is a basis for making some reflections after this debate as well. So we have now received criticism that we are building E16 against Hønefoss – some of the red-greens think it's going too fast, while others think it's going too late. We get criticism from the Workers' Party that there are tolls, while the Workers' Party is opposed to being part of toll cuts. In this debate, we have heard that it is critical that there is lag on county roads, while one forgets that when one himself crashed, there was lag on both county roads and highways. Things actually go in the right direction. Still, you can just look dark on things. I'm happy in dark asphalt, but when a binoculars towards the horizon, it's a little more binoculars when it's blue. We also have a government that is, and then the world often gets a little bit better. The working party said that solutions had to be sought on a case-by-case basis regarding tolls on the side road network. That's what this government has done, that's what the majority has done. That's why today's majority grant a little more money to road projects that are already built, to participate and look at solutions that can reduce fares. On the E16 against Kongswinger, a few increases in government appropriations over the next few years, just to reduce tariffs, to reduce risk, among other things. by what one is doing. It was the Workers' Party against. The Labour Party here says that they're looking for solutions, but they're actually opposed to implementing them, because they're opposed to being with them and financing them. Then the question is, how constructive is it to be in this room and discuss case by case, when the Workers' Party is unable to take a concrete position on what they themselves think, but all the way has different substituting arguments to criticise everyone else? The project we are talking about here was adopted under the previous government – with full tolls on the side roads. We have not seen that the Workers' Party in this Chamber has lifted a finger to find solutions – neither for the residents of Galterud nor at Fulu – to get reduced rates. Then the Labour Party comes and says that they are very satisfied when the government finds solutions, but that it has been a confusing process. Well, maybe the Labour Party's local politicians should be with and give a helping hand to find those solutions a little earlier. What's the challenge when we're going to do something about the bomb tariffs is that you have to agree with those who are the guarantors behind the bomb projects. There are a lot of local politicians who haven't necessarily been there, looking for solutions, but now we've found this. I thank the local politicians in Hedmark who have been with me and said that we are trying this. Then one has been constructive, and we make sure that the drivers get a little better when they drive on these road sections. I'm glad. Then I hope that the Workers' Party will in the future be involved in supporting proposals like toll cutters, instead of just being against them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e957	It's good to hear that Myrli's representative is still – let's say – skeptical, critical and negative to sideways bombing, and that's good. There have been doubts as to what is going to happen on the E16 sideways – especially in the media, there has been a lot of discussion in the media – but to claim that it is we from the Right and the Advance Party, the government, who have caused that uncertainty or that doubt, that is completely wrong, because we have been trying to find a good solution all along. I must say that I am very impressed with the Minister of Transport who, fortunately, has not given up. First opened the way in 2014 – then there were major protests due to bombing on side roads that would probably never have been there. Then we started with a bomb bar, exemption from the local population – fortunately we got that. Then we tried to move the boom, because it was still not satisfied locally – it blocked the workers' party-driven county council. Then we tried to remove the bomb – it also blocked the Workers' Party. Then we got a new localization, and maybe it has contributed positively. It's a little special, but at least, as the minister was in the middle of it, among other things. Sjur Strand, the working party rapporteur in Kongsvinger, contributed positively to our local agreement at half price on the side roads. Unfortunately, the Workers' Party-led county council has not contributed as positively in all these years, so the criticism must be addressed there and not to the government, because the government has been really patient and tried repeatedly to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e964	When the Council of State needs to reflect on the debate, I think I'm going to jump on the reflections, me too. I understand that it is painful for the Council of State to get criticism. Think that someone could question the story he's trying to tell – a government council that's run the largest national transport plan of the time, where we made it possible to continue the efforts of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Swedish Government through eight years in government, where we did about the national transport plan from being a wish list of many good projects, to establish a tradition of actually following up by granting money. I am very pleased that the Council of State has worked hard to follow up the national transport plan that we presented, and has largely managed to do so, even though we have also criticised aspects of what is not well done. But what must be hurt for this council is that he hasn't delivered on his own election promises, because he went to the election to spend 45 billion. kr more in the year than he has done. Right should be right: I'll give him right in that he's spent 2.5 billion dollars. kr more than national transport plan, evenly over, each year. He's still at 170. kr according to its own electoral vow. He hasn't been there. It is quite right for the Workers' Party, but many of the government's voters have reason to be very disappointed. The councils and his party went to the elections not only not to present new toll proposals, but even to remove all toll calls in this country. They were high and dark, but that's not the story of this government and the regime of this council. What has happened is that he has failed his voters again and put Norway's record in the collection of tolls. We in the Workers' Party have recognised that tolls are part of how we finance road development in this country to meet all the major needs we have, for citizens and businesses, in order to get predictability, safe roads and faster driving speed. That's not something we like, but that's the way it is. The point is that the Council of State has led its own voters behind the light. He has to admit that when he has to settle his accounts. Then the Workers' Party will be in charge of its policy, and we will. We have followed up our travel promises also in opposition. We've switched off approx. 2 billion. kr more than the Council of State has managed to put off in this period – these last four years where we have been in opposition – and we are ready to continue that journey promise when we hopefully return to government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e977	We are now in a debate that is a bit sideways, but which is nevertheless very relevant. I remember that a few months ago, the representative Sivertsen and I were at the meeting of the Norwegian Lastebileier-Federal Association at Hamar. Then I heard the exact same lesson. Despite the fact that I could prove that almost all of the claims about what happened were incorrect, we hear that they are repeated over and over again. We supposedly run a policy we're against, we're doing nothing but what would automatically happen. Let me then remind you that in 2017, the state budget is 63 billion. DKr, against 41 br. NOK when we took over. There's no automatic in that that growth is coming, at least not if you see what was the traditional growth in the last eight years before that, then we would be much lower. The growth was just over 2 billion. kr a year on average – good, that – but it has been well over 3 billion. kr on average now. That's because we prioritize it. The money for transportation has increased as a share of the state budget, much more than one could say when the representative Sivertsen's party was running. But what really shows the difference is whether it's just rhetoric, or whether it's substance, is to look at what was promised in the national transport plan, and what the red-greens added to their government budget for 2014 before they left off. Did they make up their own promises in 2014? The fact is that the civil majority had to go into point by point – within road planning, within maintenance, within construction, within railway planning, within maintenance, within construction – and increase the appropriations, because if one were up to the level set by the red-green government, we would have been far from there overfilling the national transport plan four years later. In fact, there was a decrease in appropriations for maintenance. So one should increase the decay on the road network and the network. Despite the fact that one in the national transport plan said that the downturn was coming, one budgeted for increasing the maturity. We had to go in with planning funds for more than five road projects to ensure that they could get faster progress, not later progress. Those road projects are now going to have a spade in the ground these days, just because the money came, but it wouldn't have been possible with the policy of the Sivertsen Party. That is why one must also look at the realities here. This country has never lacked plans. The working party submitted a national motorway plan in 1963. How many of the road projects were realised? Very few. That's what's the difference. The projects this government and this majority are now in the process are projects that we also voted in favour of in Stortinget – it would be lacking if we had not done so. At the same time, we pointed out that ambitions are greater, and that is why we are overcomplying with the national transport plan. I am also pleased that the Workers' Party says that the Advance Party is the most offensive party in the Stortinget in terms of infrastructure. But then one must also vote for the Progress Party if one is to ensure that we realise the policy, so that we get a majority in this Chamber alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e992	Let's have a heating round for what's coming out of the spring. When we took over in government in 2005, the budget for transport was approx. 20 B.C.E. kr. It was doubled by a historic investment in 2009, when we had a growth in the national transport plan of 45 p.p., which we delivered on. In 2013 we presented a new historical initiative, with a growth of 50 pst. On Wednesday, the Government shall present its national transport plan. It's an exam. What is the growth rate of commercial investment? What is the strategy for meeting the cost issues that have arisen under this government? In the autumn, we received a wide range of cost figures – three projects totaled only 10 billion. kr. Today, we have debated a subject that is at risk, that has cost gaps, and that is not controlled by this Council of States. How do you finance the offensive promises you have? The Council of State would like to talk about its offensive policy, but he does not deliver according to it. He promised 45 billion. kr more every year. He hasn't been there. One thing is to talk about it, something else to deliver according to it. The council has said that he wants to be measured by what he actually did. Yes, what did he do? He didn't grant 45. kr more every year. He's granted $2.50. kr. He is “short” in relation to his own promises. That's what we're measuring him up against. And in terms of the national transport plan, the one in force, which he controls, and which has now been benchmarking for what he thinks is good enough, he doesn't deliver either, for example. on the coast where it is underfunded under the plan. This is the country that has the world's second longest coastline. Coastal works, ports and fairways are down-priority to the level of ambition, to take one example. This spring we'll see exams. Then we'll see if the Council of State gets a pass, or if he cancels, if it's just words, or if he's also able to deliver a realistic national transport plan, that meets the level of ambition he boasts of having.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1007	There are obviously more people who need to dry up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1012	You're on it, President! In one case earlier today, I was criticized by both the Minister of Transport and the committee leader because I quoted from the proposition that referred to something that apparently had nothing to do with the matter. Then it was the E16 and the Ringerix Railway. But I allow myself to quote again from the proposition we now have for treatment, and hope it's okay this time. This concerns the question of half the fare on the E16 side roads in South Odal and Kongswinger. Whether it's in the proposition: ‘The changes are expected to increase the collection period by about 3 years, from 13 to 16 years.’ I'm saying that as an extension of the debate we just had on cross-border collection. There is no free lunch – it's okay that we're doing this now. We support it – now I say it again – but at the bottom of what we are doing now is that there will be longer collection time for the toll project as such. So it's the drivers themselves who are now paying for the solution we're trying to figure out. The last point I want to make is that, in connection with the new half-price ceiling on the side road network, in March, a while before it was due to come into force, March 27th, the State Road Service announced the new ceiling stop and used in the advertisement the term ‘after decision in the Stortinget’. That's not true. The majority has not taken such a decision. It is not Stortingen's job to make such a decision. There is no need for a decision to settle. The matter is briefing in Prop. 56 S for 2016-2017, and that is the proposition we have to deal with today, April 3. Where the Road Administration of the State is to refer to decisions in the Stortinget, a decision must be taken in the Stortinget. It was unwholesome and unfortunate in this matter – not the world’s biggest cause, done, and the state’s road system is sure to learn about it – but it is now right to point it out at least. I have also seen that the department in response to the committee has said that it was unfortunate. Then we finished the matter, and then we hope that there will now be a good solution with half the fare on the side roads. The matter is to be evaluated after one year, it says in the proposition, and then I expect the Minister of Transport and the Department to find a good solution to the continuation as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1026	I record that we have another debate in which we are actually debating something quite different from what is on the case map. There may not be much to do with, but there is still reason to arrest some of the things that are being addressed when we first have a different debate than what was set up on the case map. The representative Sivertsen asked what action the government has taken to ensure that road and rail projects are now delivered within the budget. To that is to answer, among other things.: the creation of New Weger AS, which will not only keep the road projects in the budget but actually deliver them at lower costs than they were originally prescribed for. New Roads are now working towards realising the projects – the entire portfolio – 20 pst. more reasonable than the state road service initially estimated. It means more way for the money. At the same time, we have the railway reform, which is also an important step that can help cut costs. The manager of Bane NOR estimates that it is possible to cut 10-15 pst. of the costs that have been estimated for the railway development we have ahead of us. Only for the intercity expansion will it possibly amount to 15 billion. kr. So it's completely visible results that we're taking action to realize the projects more fairly and faster than before. What's striking is that the Workers' Party is largely opposed to all kinds of innovation in order to get more money going, in order to realize the path and the way faster. It's disappointing. I also respond to the claim made by the representative Sivertsen that the Advance Party is leading its own voters behind the light. If it were the case that the Progress Party had a clear majority, it might have been reasonable to consider that not everything in the Progress Party programme is in line with the government's policy. But it's like we're two parties in government and two parties that support this government, and that's the sum of the policies that are pursued. Then I think it would be totally unreasonable to make the kind of statements from the Parliament's pulpit that the representative Sivertsen just made.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1037	Since we obviously have a different debate from the one we were supposed to have now, I have to be allowed to answer a little. When the Workers' Party's Eirik Sivertsen points to the Advance Party and election promises, I find it strange that you may not have realized that the Storting is composed of several parties, and that democracy is the decision of the majority. When the Workers' Party's Eirik Sivertsen points to the Advance Party and says that you only follow up the NTP of the Workers' Party, I say, no, fortunately we don't. We overfill it. If we were to follow the Workers' Party's NTP, the maturity would increase – just as it did in the previous eight years – every single year on both road and track. So fortunately, for the people of Norway, we do not follow the plan of the Workers' Party. We do a lot, a lot more. Everyone remembers the headlines in all the national media about the extent of the maturity beyond that. Every year, Norway passed away and the infrastructure expired. When Eirik Sivertsen is concerned about cost increases, why hasn't the Workers' Party started thinking about new things around the world? Every reform they have voted down. They have no new solutions – only criticism and empty rhetoric. When Eirik Sivertsen is worried about NTP and what's coming, it might be because of what I've read in the media that Eirik Sivertsen has said, that we probably have to expect to build a smaller road in the future when we get autonomous vehicles. No, on the contrary, we're going to build more roads. Autonomous vehicle has four wheels, they too. I recommend Eirik Sivertsen to visit and look at electric cars and hybrid cars. They have four wheels, just like an ordinary fossil driven car. There are more people going to live in cities and in the country, and therefore we need more way, not less way. When Sverre Myrli is concerned about longer payoffs – yes, it was also under the previous government, the red-green, when it applied to Westfold and E18. Then it was a crisis to set down the tariffs, which would initially be 116 kroner at the E18 in Westfold. There were strict negotiations with the previous government, the red-green government, and got it down to NOK 87, but you were concerned that there would be traffic wear on the side roads. Then you had to set up obstacles. It was critical when this government put the tariffs down to NOK 57, without a bomb on side roads. The result is that the road is paid faster than you predicted, because more people use the road, because more people can afford to use it. Business goes down, because they can afford to drive there. The goods are becoming more reasonable than they would be with the red-green ones. And the usual man in the street and normal families can afford to use the road – a safe and secure road. And we're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1056	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1074	I'm not going to use ten minutes, because the interpellation is put up so that it turns into a pretty concrete question. This is whether the Minister of Health sees fit to cooperate with the Diakon home and Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital to expand the hospital offer in Oslo. It will also be known from the press that they look forward, in particular, to helping to further develop the hospital activity that is in Aker hospitals’ premises and neighbouring glories. But in addition to this concrete initiative, on which I would like to hear the views of the Minister of Health, I do not want to forget that the request is linked to a topic of greater topicality and importance. It also applies, in the slightly larger picture, how Oslo's two diaconic hospitals can be used in the best possible way. There are two well-known and well-renowned hospitals that have a long tradition of cooperating with a public hospital owner. It is a history that records many decades back in time, also back to the time when the Municipality of Oslo, as a county municipality, was the owner and financially responsible for the specialist health service. It is also tempting in this political assembly to add that the two hospitals have an ownership structure that has a broader goodwill in this room, because social-democratic health politicians also realize the value of non-profit institutions, i.e. non-state owned hospitals that operate on the basis of the ideal, unlike having commercial objectives. If this kind of ownership has not exactly been loved by the left, the ideals have nevertheless been accepted by the social democrats. It's a little bit uncertain which fate they face if the Workers' Party is going to commit itself to a cooperation on the left hand side, as we've seen in Oslo. But there's another question. The question here is whether the health business system is able to capture ideas and initiatives from the ideal partners and respond positively to them, without being met with unnecessary scepticism – the scepticism that does not bring us anywhere, and which has an undertone that we know best, and that the initiatives should preferably come from the central health business planners. It is on this basis that I look forward with particular anticipation to the response of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1093	New local hospital in Aker is part of the overall development of Oslo University Hospital, which was adopted last June. In addition to new Aker Hospital, a future target for Oslo includes a complete regional hospital with local hospital functions at Gaustad and a specialised cancer hospital at Radium Hospital. According to the National Health and Hospital Plan, the Aker hospital will be defined as a large emergency hospital, which will also contain university areas. It is planned that Aker Hospital will gradually take over the districts for which Ullevål Hospital is responsible today, as well as the districts that are currently receiving specialist health services from Aarhus. Health South-East health region has suggested that Aker hospitals should be developed step by step and in parallel with the expansion of Gaustad. The establishment of a local hospital in Aker will be an important step in addressing the capacity challenges in the hospitals of Oslo and Akershus. A step-by-step development of the local hospital will allow for gradual increase and transfer of treatment capacity between hospitals in the hospitals in Oslo and Akershus as the population base changes. Health South-East is concerned about how Diakonhemmet Hospital and Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital can best contribute to the long-term capacity challenge in the capital. The two hospitals have agreements with Health South-East, and together they have local health responsibility for six districts. Hospitals are an integral part of the specialist healthcare service and are also integrated into the health region’s plans for the future specialist healthcare service in Oslo. In a future target picture for Oslo University Hospital, Health South-East has assumed that further work will be done on the division of tasks in Oslo, so that new tasks can be transferred to the Diakon home Hospital and the Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital. They will then take care of a greater proportion of their own patient base, as well as the growth of the population in their own area of exposure. Both hospitals are currently lacking offers to the population for which they are already responsible and for which it would be natural that hospitals of this size have and which are offered in comparable hospitals. Increased responsibility for its own population and the growth of its population will represent a significant increase in activity and tasks for both these hospitals. The proposal that Diakonhemmet and Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital should be given the opportunity to assume responsibility for the financing, expansion and operation of new Aker local hospitals involves new tasks for hospitals and will require a new agreement to be concluded. New contracts are governed by law and regulation on public acquisitions. This legislation normally requires competition. It is therefore not possible to conclude a direct agreement with the two actors on the development and operation of a new hospital. The government's objectives are the most effective use of the community's resources, and I am therefore in favour of cooperation with non-profit and private individuals. At the same time, Health South-East and Oslo University Hospitals are responsible for developing hospitals in Oslo and for assessing the different solutions. It is therefore Health South-East that has to assess whether it is appropriate to allow private ideals to operate new Aker hospitals. I would like to add that access to capital should not be crucial for the development of healthcare. Funding is important for the implementation of the overall project plans at Oslo University Hospital, but should not determine how the service is organised. The overall plans will have a significant financial impact on Oslo University Hospital and Health South-East. I am made aware that Health South-East wants to accelerate the plans for the development of Aker, and that they will deal with the start of the concept phase in June this year. Health South-East has gained experience through the expansion of Aarhus and the new hospital in Eastfold. These are hospital projects carried out by Health South-East within the timetable and financial framework, and experience will be useful in building new Aker hospitals. As one understands from my answer, I believe it must be what is appropriate, and what serves the purpose, namely to put in place a new local hospital in Aker of the size and with the capacity needed, which must be governing the type of development chosen. If private ideas like Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital and Diakonhemmet Hospital wish to contribute to such plans, it is natural that they present their possibilities for this to Health South-East, and that Health South-East and Oslo University Hospital then make an overall assessment of what serves the purpose of developing a new hospital at Aker best.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1116	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It contained more information that was a good reason to rejoice, first of all that there are development plans — and not closure plans — for hospital operations at Aker Hospital. It's positive about what was the whole psychology and perception of this area under the predecessors of the Health Council, without me mentioning the Labour Party councils by name. So it's listed as a «statement» on which you can build and which is positive. The second thing I noticed that was also positive was that we saw new tasks added to our diaconic hospitals. That is what I choose to interpret as a positive attitude to what these can do and contribute to the development of healthcare in our city and our region. With regard to the actual responsibility for specific development tasks, I noticed that the Council of State was somewhat more reserved and indicated that there was a need to comply with the rules on tenders, etc. Neither am I to make direct allocations if it is not permitted by the Competition Act, but you can therefore use the possibilities you have after all to bring in impulses other than those that are necessarily in the immediate vicinity of the Health Council. And there's several ways to do this. I would also like to remind you of the benefit now enjoyed by these hospitals of the fact that they are engaged in development tasks that have given them the competence to carry out major initiatives of a construction nature, in addition to the operational ones, which we know they are already handling in a good way. Secondly, there is also the fact that the daily governance structure of these organisations often provides benefits from a governance perspective. I understand, of course, that the investment side of the governance models we have for the specialist health service needs to be defined by the state, and also that the device needs to be determined on the basis of national leadership, but I would encourage the Council of State to look into how private capital and private ideas can now also be brought in with regard to investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1125	Thanks for the feedback. I fully agree that there is a very positive development we are now seeing in the Oslo area related to what should be the future hospital offer, where old ideas and solutions for a large hospital in Oslo are abandoned, and that we have now decided what the structure should be, and that it is now working effectively to achieve what is the objective, which also involves a large emergency hospital in Aker. Then it is clear that the two existing diaconic hospitals will have larger and expanded tasks, not least to be even more complete local hospitals for the six districts for which they are already responsible. Then we are in a situation where Health South-East wants a good and fast progress on the planning and development of the new hospital in Aker. In this context, I believe that they need to assess which solutions serve that purpose best. From my side and from the government, there is no ideological or political restraint in choosing cooperation solutions with private and non-profit developers. It is important, of course, that one then relates to the law, regulation and guidance in this area. Such a large establishment as the new emergency hospital in Aker would have to require a tender under public procurement rules and could not only extend existing contracts with these establishments. But I think that is primarily an assessment of which models you choose to use, which must be located in Health South-East and Oslo University Hospital. Of course, it is an advantage to have a variety of different solutions to discuss in this area as well, and that is something I am concerned about to be taken care of further.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1134	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good report. In this case, there has been broad political consensus among the parties in Oslo, where we have all pointed to the population growth in Oslo and Akershus, as if you add it, on average is 25 000 a year and according to the forecasts will do it in the years to come as well. We have been concerned that the planning of local hospital capacity has been based on reports from Sintef — first one that came in 2007–08 — which said that less local hospital capacity was needed in the area. As a result, Aker was no longer used as a local hospital, but built the interaction arena Aker and other activities there. A new report from Sintef in 2014 still insisted that you could deal with the capacity you had, as well as some expansion in the use of Lovisenberg and the Diakon home. But with the demand from a population that increases by 25 000 a year, relative to what else in the country has of capacity, there was reason for great concern among us politicians here locally. Especially when, after the last part of the city was phased over to Aarhus from 1 January 2011, so that already in the winter of 2014/2015 there was no room for everyone at Ahus, but had to send patients alternative to Diakonhjemmet, Lovisenberg, Ullevål or Ahus, the discussion of the demand for a new local hospital in Aker really began to get even greater weight. It was a pleasure when, at a debate meeting on 25 April 2016, we experienced that Bjørn Erikstein, the director of Oslo University Hospital, said for the first time that he would build a new local hospital on Aker. But it was long unclear how quickly it would happen. It was said that first you had to build the large, new hospital in Gaustad, first there was only psychiatry on Aker, etc. – it could take 20-30 years before there was a new local hospital in Aker. It was very happy when Health South-East came out with clearer messages. I can quote the daily newspaper of February 8th, where the director of Health South-East says that you should apply for a loan for construction on Aker in one year. Then it would take five to six years to build a new hospital there. The fact that they are now saying that they are looking to have completed a new local hospital in the period 2025-2027 is, as I judge, to set full speed on this construction project. They have also said that it is no longer a question of building a psychiatry building, etc.; now you see that priority needs to be given to such projects – more local hospitals are needed in the Oslo area – higher and in parallel with the other construction projects, at least. What we can say about Health South-East is that they have a high level of competence in construction projects. The Councils of State indicated that they have now carried out a large construction project in Eastfold, and they also have competence from many other contexts. It is important for Health South-East, in the decisions and what they have made about local health coverage plans in Oslo, that Lovisenberg and the Diakon Home, which the Council of State had in mind, can gain greater self-defence in view of the six districts for which they have local health responsibilities. The numbers from Health South-East tell us that Lovisenberg today has 29 pst. self-covering, and that the Diakon home has 44 pst. self-covering. It's much lower than what's normal for local hospitals elsewhere in the country, which the state council was also in. As a result, patients who go to those local hospitals are sent to different places when they are to be treated for conditions for which there is no treatment coverage in those hospitals. I agree with the Council of State and Michael Tetzschner that Lovisenberg and the Diakon home are good hospitals, but the main task should be to work on self-covering, so that the new local hospital in Aker, the new hospital in Gaustad, Lovisenberg and the Diakon home together can provide a better local hospital service to all the inhabitants of Oslo as quickly as possible. Meanwhile, Lovisenberg and the Diakon home will play a major role in relieving Aarhus towards 2025. I hope that there can be agreement on this, and that we let go of a draw between the parties on what is going to be the solution here. The intention to build this fort possibly should have been taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1151	Let me first of all thank the interpellant for an excellent interpellant and for an excellent question to the Health Council. I was almost 100 pst. Satisfied with the answer, but not quite. Aker Hospital has been a heartchild of the Progress Party for all years, all the way back to 2009-2010, when we promoted a representative proposal here in the main hall, but received no support for it from anyone. We had enough rhetorical support from the representative of Bohemia, especially in the media, but there was no desire to preserve Aker at that time. Now the decision has become a reality – we get a new Aker hospital, and the hospital structure for Oslo has been adopted. Now there's a broad consensus about that, and it's positive. Then the government delivers joy to the inhabitants – and also to the representative of Bohemia, I will assume. But it can take an unnecessary amount of time, and of course it will be expensive. And it's suggested, as opposed to what Mr. Bøhler says, that it can be more than 15 years until you can use new Aker and accept patients. It will have consequences. This will require maintenance and maintenance of current services in these years – what is now available. It will also require more funding of existing infrastructure and make the process possible for Aker to be in place in 15-17 years, animals. So much time I think we don't have, and I think you should go faster, as the representative Tetzschner also suggests. The fact that we can open Aker earlier, and even many years earlier, if we get to a different form of funding from private and non-profit actors, will also be better for patients. But then you have to put political ideology on the booth and the inhabitants and patients first. Because it will be the citizens and patients who win. Oslo City will win, the public will win, the health community will win, and hopefully the ideal and private players will win. The only thing that will lose, as it has lost many times before, is socialist, old-fashioned ideology. It says you don't have to make money on sick patients, you don't have to make money on children, you don't have to make money on other services for the residents, but you can make money, for example. on food and on all other services for the inhabitants. But there you clearly set the limit to helping people get the best services. Then you don't have to make money. I've been traveling a lot around Oslo City, and I haven't yet met a single resident or picker who is opposed to getting better health care because of the form of funding. I actually don't think there are any, except socialists, who have an ideology that they shouldn't use private actors. We can save the state's loan budgets, we don't have to rely on annual government budgets, if we get into such an arrangement with private and non-profit actors as mentioned by the representative Tetzschner. It's very great if the Council of State can apply the principle of competition. It is all right to use the law that applies, but that does not prevent the Council of State from taking the initiative to clarify what is on the table: what can be put on the table of concrete offers? How fast can it go? Do they have the funding in order? Can they drift? E.g. That should have been clarified. As has been examined in other ways, it is possible, but I would like the Council of State to get on the track and be part of a process that makes it possible. Then it is also quite essential: when the government consists of two parties and both parties want this, we get hope that the government is so positive that it takes this initiative – with regard to all the laws that lie there, of course – but I hope that it is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1168	A few months ago, the majority in this Chamber took a decision asking the government to set a target for growth in the share of the overall health care sector to be organised and run as a non-profit activity and, in an appropriate manner, to submit to the Stortinget a plan of short-term and long-term action to achieve this. This was a very important decision to set a national target for growth in the non-profit sector. I look forward to dealing with this plan for the follow-up to just this goal. For this purpose, public action, at both state and local level, is required to actively take care of the ideal actors we have, and to accept new and good initiatives. The objective of growth in the ideal share requires public use of the possibilities under the new public procurement and public support legislation, with the aim of continuing and increasing the share of health and care measures taken by non-profit organisations. The possibility of good procurement in line with policy objectives of non-profit growth is in place in the Acquisitions Act. We secured that in this room when the law was passed. In Oslo, Christian People's Party City Council representative Erik Lunde has proposed a numerical objective, and it has now been decided by the majority of the City Council in Oslo that a desire to increase the position of the ideal actors in Oslo's welfare services. The City Council has asked the City Council to introduce a target of about 25 p.m. by 2025, provided that this does not have a significant negative impact on the municipality's own service provision, the place of establishment in the healthcare sector shall be organised and run as a non-profit activity. The City Council asks the City Council to use the action space as far as possible to give preference to non-profit actors over commercial when existing contracts with private operators expire or when new contracts are to be concluded for the operation of services in the health and care sector. This is an example of follow-up for all municipalities in the country. It does not hold up speeches; we must have binding policies and concrete measures and use the opportunities available. This applies not only to municipalities, but also at national level. We have a common objective of growth in the non-profit sector's share of the operation of services in the health and care sector. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to seize the opportunities that afford to develop that particular service, and now this service is right in front of us, in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1179	First of all, thank the representative Tetzschner for raising an important discussion. It is a discussion that is particularly important for Oslo, but it also has meaning for the rest of the country. The development of the population in Oslo is joyous, and more health services with a larger population will be needed. Unlike other parts of the country, Oslo also has a very high growth rate in the young population. It suggests that you also have to expand the offer to them. Other parts of the country face a challenge with a very ageing population, and it needs to be adapted to their needs. With regard to the national discussion, the opportunity to build a new local hospital in Oslo is also important because we can learn for other, future investments. We also need to invest a lot in other parts of the health sector in other parts of Norway. We are facing a significant development in technology, but we are also facing challenges related to the management and organisation of the major public hospitals we have in Norway. To this it is possible to learn from smaller hospitals, but also to learn another type of investment, ownership and organisation. As the representative of the Christian People's Party, Bollestad is also in favour of ideal actors, such as both a potential investor and a possible hospital operator. Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital in Oslo I often use as an example. They are the largest local hospital, but are also considered by many to be one of the best hospitals in the country. So better is always possible, as Canada's liberal prime minister says. Therefore, it is interesting to discuss how we organise an investment, both to achieve the best possible and to maximise others and where there is access to the ideal actors and the capital of any private investor. Oslo, of course, has a different access, a different opportunity and a different light on it when it comes to the possibility of accessing capital. But I'm not so busy with that discussion. Those possibilities exist. What I'm concerned about is that we organize the operation to also create the learning hospital organisation in Norway. We do not aim to organise the health sector of the future. So using such opportunities to create innovation, learning, better organisation and better use of knowledge and capacity is important. I have previously, in similar debates, pointed to the possibility of pointing out an enterprise or hospital with a special responsibility for psychiatry. It's not safe that it should be Aker, but we have to look for such opportunities to point out someone to have a leadership sweater on more than the somatic. The challenges in the disease picture suggest this, but also that we have invested less in psychiatry in Norway than we have done in the somatic field. We need the development of knowledge, we need to give different priorities in order to achieve the quality and competence of that part of the health sector as well. The ideal actors bring with them a lot of good treatment, a lot of good competence and a lot of knowledge of organisation. But it may also be that within parts of such a new hospital there may be private actors who are willing to be involved in investing, but then we need to discuss whether they should be able to operate. So public–private cooperation in the hospital and health sectors is important to discuss for many reasons. But it is also important, of course, to discuss the limitations on how far we are getting to the private and the ideal actors in this sector in the future. The advantage of projects like Aker is that they're not too big. There are not too many tasks to be solved in such a hospital, and it is therefore interesting to discuss whether to give them responsibility within some limited tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1198	I take the floor for a short post because I was very impressed with the first post of the interpellant, where he believes that the Workers' Party will not support the ideal actors in the welfare sector. Then the interpellant must have followed very poorly, because we have voted with both the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV, and I also believe the Left, and thus completely different from the Right and the Advance Party, in terms of lifting ideals, both in relation to the EEA procurement law and in other matters that have been promoted here in the Storting, among others. the draft document on which the representative, Mr Bollestad, spoke. I just want to assure the interpellant and others that we have in our policy – the Labour Party has in its policy – to strengthen the ideals and public actors. And why do we want to do that? Well, because we see that if it doesn't happen, the private commercial pushes out the ideal actors. I heard that many times already the first period I spent on the Stortinget – in the family and cultural committee. There we had countless meetings with the ideals, which saw that the more and more lost terrain for commercial actors. Therefore, it is so important that we use the legislation we have, and find every opportunity to make specific agreements with non-profit actors. We also did that on our guard, just to mention it. The main reason why we do that is that we want everything that is granted by public money to go to the core tasks. Ideal actors plough any surplus back to the core tasks, as public authorities should do, and therefore stand ideal in a special position. Therefore, the Workers' Party wants to lift the ideal actors. We have shown that every time and on every occasion we have had these matters in Stortinget. It was just the thing that was very strong on my heart.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1210	I want to start by thanking my co-representatives for their interest in the topic by taking part in the debate. However, I would like to point out that the representative of Bohemia's contribution was more marked by knowledge of local conditions in Oslo than perhaps the previous article. If we are to start with the representative Knutsen, we are told that the Workers' Party accepts, in many ways, even praiseworthy statements, the ideal suppliers, whether health services or care services. But the reason I pointed out to former government councils from the Workers' Party in the case of a hospital case in Oslo is that Stroem-Erichsen had his full rent to figure out how the health card was to be drawn in Oslo. The fact that it is now drawn differently is also a great pleasure for the representatives of the Workers' Party in this room – I have registered that. It is also a small reminder that Knutsen’s party traps – although the Municipality of Oslo as a county municipality no longer have any responsibility for the specialist health service as such – together with its partners from Red and SV operate and prohibit service providers that provide e.g. child protection services or child care services. So the practice of the Workers' Party in Oslo gives cause for concern in addition to the fact that they sometimes say in declaration plans that they are positive to non-state-owned suppliers. I think the Council of State has noticed that there is a positive stock of this debate, and it is that the Storting has a positive expectation of the revitalisation that is now taking place in the hospital area in Aker, and that there is a new and better offer for the city's population. We look forward to that. At the same time, aspects of the operational life and the interface between the health business system and the ideals and the private suppliers make it clear that non-governmental driven organisations see that they are used as capacity regulators and are not always treated in the same way as their own hospitals. But a wise political leadership can do something about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1219	After the debate, I note both that there is a broad political consensus on the new future target picture of the hospital structure in Oslo, and that there is no particular ideological or political counter-representation to trace against also using cooperation with ideals to solve public health tasks. These are both assessments that I of course share. What must be important is that the solution serves the purpose — to provide patients with good treatment. And especially in the case of Aker Hospital, that one also gets a progress in the matter that is in line with the plan in Health South-East. As I informed in my post, it is now working well for rapid progress in both the development of the new hospital at Aker and the expansion at Gaustad. It is important for me to stress that with the plans now available, the new hospital at Aker will not be a small hospital in Norwegian context. It will be a relatively large emergency hospital, one of the larger ones in the country. It also says something about the size of this work. It does, as I also said in my post, that it should not be seen as a mere extension of existing agreements with these two ideal hospitals to include the new hospital in Aker. There will be a need for new jobs. In this case, there will be an acquisition of several billions, and although one has a procurement code that facilitates a different treatment of non-profit actors, it is rather doubtful whether such an acquisition could have been reserved for only non-profit actors. What characterises the non-profit sector is that it is part of the voluntary sector. And what characterizes the voluntary sector is that it is both free and willing. This means that if there are ideal actors who believe that they can solve the task faster, cheaper and better than the public does within their framework, it is fully possible to present plans and projects to Health South-East. Health South-East I think I have seen very clearly that from the current government there will be no political constraints associated with assessing such a form of development. The governing thing, as I said, will be what serves the cause, what is most economical, and what serves the advancement of the development of a new hospital in Aker.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1230	Case No. 6 has been completed. As mentioned above, case No. 7 exposed due to disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1248	Horsemeat can be cheated on. It was discovered in 2013 by the horse meat scandal at the time, and this regulation is to remedy it. Studies carried out in the EU then showed that identification documents for equidae were subject to extensive fraud. That's what you're looking for, and it's a unanimous committee behind what's being promoted. We were part of the scandal by discovering a batch of finished loads in Norway that were included in that case. An additional element is that there is no common register for horses in Norway today, either related to passport issue or for breeding purposes. A national horse register will now be established and tenders have been made among the nine existing environments involved. The Food Authority has picked out Norsk Horse Center to lead it. The Committee assumes that it will be subject to periodic competitive pressure, that the Food Safety Authority will be the owner of the data contained in the register and that the Food Safety Authority will supervise the activities of the register. Well, that's what it is to say to the matter. The Committee fully agrees that we should have better control here, and I therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1257	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 8 Case No. 9–11 is the second reading of legal cases, and the President will therefore propose that cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1297	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 9-11.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1751	It's going to add up to A. Section 4. The Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the SV have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1766	So it goes over the rest of A.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1788	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1798	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e1808	The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e2176	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e2187	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e2238	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e2248	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e2257	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size defers the processing of decisions on the extension of the E16 Bjørum-Skaret road section after the treatment of the National Transport Plan 2018-2029 by Stortinget.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e2287	The Greens have announced support for the Socialist Left's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e2328	It is first voted on I-III. The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e2342	It is then added over IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e2352	In Case No. 6 there is no voting theme, and Case No. 7 is exposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e2377	Case No. 9–11 are the second time legal proceedings and relate to legislative acts 68–70. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-03.ana.ud145e2484	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
