ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e134	The representatives Freddy de Ruiter, Sverre Myrli and Bengt Morten Wenstøb, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e150	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Hans Andreas Limi. – Other proposals are not available, and Hans Andreas Limi is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e170	: The Presidency today puts forward a position on the regulation of the remuneration of the depositors and the members of the government. The Presidency promotes a unanimous proposal that the Storting should set the remuneration in line with the recommendation of the Enlarged Bureau in its position. The Commission has obtained information from several teams to monitor wage developments in Norwegian working life, both from private and public activities. The Commission refers to the agreement on the level of settlement of the year. As in previous years, the Wage and Occupational Pensions Commission has focused on the expected annual wage growth at the time of the year’s settlement. The position of the Wage and Wage Commission represents an annual wage increase in 2017 for the grossing-up representatives and members of the government of 2.4 pst. It is based on calculated annual wage growth in both the state and municipal as well as private sectors. The Presidency points out that the Wage and Wage Commission will highlight that developments in recent years, including: higher unemployment and lower oil prices have contributed to moderate wage settlement. The Presidency further notes that, although it is the Commission’s view that the remuneration of the government’s members should be adjusted over a period of time in order to improve compliance with comparable government management salaries, the Commission considers that 2017 is not the right time to increase the remuneration beyond the average annual settlement framework. This is the Presidency's agreement. On this basis, the recommendation of the Presidency is recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e183	One might say that the staging representatives go from summer party to payroll party. It is not such that these compensations are determined in a vacuum, although one can sometimes get the impression of it by the way this is treated in the Storting. These debates tend to be a rather short-lived affair. Where Stortinget likes to spend a lot of time discussing important things like alcohol serving in the park and Tifolilov, we spend a short time discussing the determination of our own remuneration. Initially, I would like to address the presidency's position and the proposal of the remuneration committee from 1 May 2017. As the Commission itself writes: ‘In the Commission’s 2016 position, the Commission pointed out that a gap has developed over time between wage developments of central government executives and central government representatives and government members. This is also confirmed in statistics ordered by the Commission from the SSB in 2015. It is therefore assumed in the 2016 exit that the survey shows a lower wage trend compared to the employees of the government’s management wage regulation. [[Directors, Heads of Mission and Councils of Departments...]] The Commission further writes: ‘In this position, the Commission pointed out that it considers it natural that the remuneration of the Prime Minister and members of the Government, respectively, should remain at such a level as to reflect the responsibilities of the members of the Government at all times. The Wage Commission is of the opinion that it is not intended that this group has fallen so far behind the wage trend of the leaders of the country and that this less-wage development should be corrected in the long term.» In a way, I fully agree. Few people in this country bear a greater responsibility than the Prime Minister, and it should also be reflected in the status of the Prime Minister and also in the determination of wages. The respective state councils, as the Council of State present here today, also bear a considerably greater responsibility than the very majority of the other leaders in the state, I would argue. But that there is going to be some automatic in that Storting's remunerations should be significantly adjusted to reflect the trend in senior pay in the country, I have more problems understanding the logic of. I want to quote again the Commission, which writes: ‘The Wage Commission will highlight that social developments over the past ten years, including higher unemployment and lower oil prices, have contributed to moderate wage-fixing. Although it is the Commission’s view that the remuneration of the government’s members should be adjusted over some time in order to be more consistent with comparable government management salaries, the Commission considers that neither in 2017 is the right time to increase the remuneration beyond the year’s continuous settlement framework, which is 2.4 per cent.’;» So the way it is presented in the proposal from the payroll commission is that we should actually adopt a significant increase in the compensation of the Stortinge, but because of a moderate wage settlement, as it's called – you can also call it the first wage settlement where people got the most lower purchasing power since the war – we are nurturing ourselves with an increase of 2.4 pst. It doesn't seem quite as if it has fallen either the payroll commission or the presidency that there may be the leadership wages in the state that have grown too much, and not the remuneration of the big business representatives who have grown too little. It is now the case that the government's executives have largely jumped from the vast majority of other wages in society, and that the leaders of the state now earn much more, compared to the steady employees of the state, than they did before. If that is the case, is it automatic that the right thing to do to balance this imbalance between the remuneration of government members and government councils on the one hand and other heads of state on the other is that all politicians' wages should continue to rise? I'm not sure at all. That is why I am also convinced that this is so clearly highlighted in the setting of the year's compensation for grossing-up representatives. It's almost like there's some kind of moderation in increasing the remuneration of a raiser by NOK 21000 and a member of the government by even more. It doesn't matter. Allowing yourself an increase of 2.4 pst. In the context we're in now, many claims are unmusical. And the very concept of unmusical I come back to later in my post. As I said, these compensations are not determined in a vacuum. That is why I have with me the basis for the 2017 income statement, i.e. the main report from the 2017 Technical Calculations Committee. What they can tell us is, for example, that industrial workers in NHO companies, i.e. workers in the industry that may have been hard hit by oil price falls in recent years, had an annual wage increase from the previous year, in 2016, of 2 percentage points, i.e. under what the Storting assumes that we are going to grant ourselves. I think it's relevant to raise this, because although it's true that the presidency is committed to increasing the compensation of the Grand Duchy by exactly the same thing as the average wage growth has been for employees in the private sector, in the state and in the municipal sector, it's not going to get away from the fact that you're not acting in percent, you're acting in dollars and ears. I think very many people with a significantly lower salary than the payroll representatives have would appreciate a very high wage increase of NOK 21 000, and I also believe that they think an increase of NOK 21 000 is quite a lot of money. While we have this debate, it was such that in 2016 the number of unemployed in Rogaland alone was 11,751 people, in Hordaland of 9,483 people, and in Moor and Romesdal of 4,471 people. There is an increase from the previous year of 2 958, 1 824 and 846 more people, respectively, who lack a job. I think the country's National Assembly should be very satisfied with its own efforts to increase the compensation of as much as NOK 21,000 at a time of high unemployment, with very high youth unemployment, and with an ever-increasing number of families living in persistently low incomes, especially given that we have a negative trend in real wages for the vast majority of people in our society during the previous year. I believe it is very important for the National Assembly to grant itself a wage increase of NOK 21000, when a lone employee without children and with a income of NOK 300000 per year had a negative growth in real wages after tax last year of NOK 1 000, i.e. lower purchasing power than the previous year. A single employee without children and with income of DKK 750000, which is somewhat more comparable to the remuneration level of growth rates, had a negative growth in real wages and salaries after tax of 1,1 pst. A married couple with two children whose household has a combined income of NOK 750,000 had a negative real wage development of 1,2 pst. So that's how most people actually got less to go with, less purchasing power during the year last year. It's historic when it comes to employees. It is very unusual in Norway that this happens, but not everyone who has been blessed with purchasing power growth in all previous years. I aim for the pensioners, and I will also come back to them afterwards. In 2016, differences increased in Norway. Soon Norway will have 100,000 children living in families with so-called persistent low incomes. Maybe we've passed that number already, there's some inertia in reporting these numbers. It is a gloomy milestone for a country that puts its pride in small differences and equal opportunities for all. As the differences increase, the safety nets in our country have also become weaker. The bourgeois majority that has now ruled for four years, and who alone can form a majority for this increase in remuneration now on the table, have cut the budgets of the hospitals, they have cut the physical therapy offer for many, they have cut the child supplement for disabled dependants, and some are hit very hard. According to the Ministry of Finance, there were 367 families in 2015 who on average were deducted from NOK 29 000 each in benefits. It's basically to live on pretty little and then have to get used to living at NOK 29,000 less – based on a metaphysical belief that if you take money from people with little from before, they're more motivated to be healthy and work – I think I'm a pretty cool experience for many. It is also that many thousands of people no longer qualify for housing support as a result of political changes made by the government. There are concrete changes in the lives of thousands of people. It's noticed too many. The government has also removed the goal of a universally designed Norway by 2025, i.e. a broad bouquet of new ideas and better solutions. As I said, employees got lower purchasing power in 2016. We had a real wage drop in Norway. Most people, for the first time since the war, got less to go with. Nevertheless, today – without it being put up for debate, I would suggest – we intend to grant ourselves a salary increase of NOK 21 674. The pensioners also got lower purchasing power last year, but it was not the first time they experienced it. They've had that three years in a row. Government parties are so embarrassed by the poor social security settlement this year and the handling of poor social security settlements in previous years that they refused to deal with it in Stortinget this year. ‘It is very busy in a number of committees’, said Højres Arve Kambe of this interlocutor in his reasons for not wanting to deal with the social security situation this year. He's quite right about that, it's busy on the Storting for the time being. For example, we have to do this. Great treatment of our own remuneration, and we're going to set it up with 21 674 kroner. It could take me some time to get into it. But I think these two things belong together. The increase in remuneration, which enters into force on 1 May, is not the only one that comes into force on 1 May of this year. It also does this year’s social security settlement – a social security settlement that Stortingen did not have time to deal with, and it did not seem important to discuss. I want to contribute to the Storting now being given the opportunity to discuss both settlements in their full breadth, and I hope that each party will take the floor to reflect a little on both the increase in the remuneration of the magnificence representatives and also the negative development in purchasing power that the pensioners have had to find over the last three years, with the quite passive blessing of the Storting. It's not like everyone in these last few years has experienced contractions and cuts. The richest prom in Norway, i.e. the richest thousandths of the population in Norway, has averaged 264,500 dollars each in tax cuts over the last four years. 264 500 kroner each -- that's almost 100 times more than what half of us with the least wealth got in tax cuts. Thus, a very small proportion of Norway’s population – as opposed to employees most last year and as opposed to pensioners most in the last three years – have had a totally exceptional increase in purchasing power, even as a result of the political choices taken by the Storting. During this period, some groups just got a lot more to walk with. There are different people. It's people who do different things. The vast majority of them are probably very pleasant people, and I admire them all well. But what they have in common is that they from before had great wealth. What has been most hard hit by the political choices this room has taken in the last four years, however, is that they are more vulnerable than most people in Norway. They live in families where one person, one of the caregiver, is out of work and perhaps has worn out his body in the workplace after a long life in work, or perhaps has had a chronic illness, or is born with a chronic illness. These are people who are the same Biggest who grant 264 500 dollars in tax cuts to the wealthiest prom of the population, on the contrary, deduct thousands of dollars a year from living for. They make it more difficult to access physiotherapy, making it more difficult to have a right to housing support. If such policies work over time, it can change what kind of societies we are, and what kind of opportunities we have. One of the most beautiful things about Norway, which we have heard both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and all the party leaders talk about, is that we are a society with small differences and with associated high levels of trust. We trust each other in Norway. We trust each other so much in Norway that we have a parliament based on exchange. This means that even though the various parties here in the hall represent fundamental different social interests, we agree that the ratio of parties between parties should be constant, and in this way Svein Roald Hansen, Sverre Myrli or Olaug V. Bollestad can travel to communities around Norway, attend meetings and meet most people – knowing that those who are left in the Grand Duchy respect the people's choice of greatness and, for example, that. does not attempt to cast any votes. There is a degree of trust one does not find in very many other parliaments. It's a degree of trust like that. would not function at the U.S. Congress, where the game around the voting itself is a large part of the whole act of popular choice. This trust does not exist just between politicians. The trust we enjoy in Norway is also the most common among people. In Norway, people put their cell phone or PC back on the coffee table while they go to the toilet, and they expect those sitting around to take care of it. And in Norway, you can receive your tax return every year on your mobile phone. You get a text message from the state where it says that this is to be paid in tax this year. And what do most people say? They answer that ok, that's the state, and then they pay what they're taxing. It's amazing. Can you see that such a system works in e.g. Italy? Not a bad thing about Italy, but the degree of trust between the majority of citizens and the public institutions is probably considerably lower there. This very high degree of trust has not come of itself. There's also good empirical evidence. It is quite consistent that societies with small differences also enjoy greater trust among people. That's why it has something to say about how the leaders of society grant themselves rewards and privileges, and how we, as the people's National Assembly, deal with different kinds of issues. It has something to say that the representative of the largest government party says that no, it is too busy on the Stortinget to deal with the social security bill, which for the third consecutive year provides lower purchasing power for the most retired. The same party and the majority of this party have no problems in putting on the Storting case map an increase of their own remuneration of NOK 21000. It's not that people don't notice it – that the Storting has time to have a debate about their own remuneration, which will otherwise go up, but don't have time to have the slightest debate that most pensioners in Norway get less to go with. The two issues are linked, and over time I think it is harmful to the trust that people feel toward each other in Norway, if these kinds of priorities persist in the Grand Duchy. I am not saying that the Norwegian model is going to collapse this year because the Stortinget has not dealt with the social security bill, but will grant itself NOK 21 000 in an increase in compensation. I say that it's part of a development that's gone over time, where we, as growth representatives, serve almost twice what's common in Norway, where pensioners have to deal with less, and where we're only in the process of a pension reform that will make more and more people notice that it's becoming tougher, where more and more people have to go to work, even in professions that wear out their bodies. Nevertheless, they must be more active for example: to be able to get full earnings. That difference people notice. I am absolutely convinced of that. I will stay a little while at Arve Kambe's statements in connection with the social security scheme. So he said the following when SV proposed to deal with the social security settlement in Stortinget: ‘It is very busy in a number of committees, and this is a proposal that could have been proposed and discussed a number of times earlier during the session.’ I just have to add that it is a little difficult to deal with the social security settlement in Stortingen before the social security settlement has taken place, so just how the representative Kambe thought when he argued that way, he can almost account for himself. But he said one more thing: ‘There is no urgency in the matter.’ It is quite possible to think, but I would say that it is when the social security settlement runs, when the social security settlement is adopted, that it is urgent to deal with the matter. We can have a debate in November this autumn on the social security settlement of the year, but that it should have some special consequences, I am more in doubt about it. A single pensioner who had DKK 180,000 in income in 2014 has lost NOK 10 700 on the underregulation of pensions during that period. During the same period, the raisers have now granted themselves 70 349 kroner in salary increases. Let me repeat that number, because now I see that part of the representatives present in the hall became imaginative. I repeat: a single pensioner who had NOK 180 000 in income in 2014 has lost NOK 10 700 on underregulation, and in the same period, the contributions have until now made NOK 70 349 in salary increases. If the presidency's attitude to remuneration is going through today, the total increase in remuneration to a depositor has reached NOK 92 023 – NOK 92 023 in the increase over a four-year period. Let me put this point in a different way, which I know the presidency will appreciate. The President of the Grand Duchy noted at the end of Christmas that we here in the house had Oslo's cheapest cortado. He's right about that. We have Oslo's cheapest cortado. Why we have a heavily subsidized cortado on Stortinget, I don't understand, but we now have it. Those who work at the Storting Coffee Bar provide excellent service and are about the gentlest people I know. They also have the pleasure of selling us a heavily subsidised cortado to a group that has had an increase of 70,349 kroner in the last four years. So a cortado on the Stortinget is going to cost $16. For the salary increase the Stortinget grants itself during this period, a representative can buy 5,751 cortados in the Stortinge coffee bar. I know the presidency is happy in the cortado, but it's got to be a way. Do you need 15 cortados a day in a pay raise? I don't think growth representatives need 15 cortados a day in pay raise. It's also going to be possible to illustrate the number 92 023 differently, and see it from a pensioner's point of view. In this period, the salary increase of the staging representatives is only NOK 1 300 away from the corresponding basic amount of the population’s money – 1 G. Think about it. During this period, the aggregate has granted itself an increase in wages corresponding to a whole of G. It is not just the SV who react to the lucrative schemes that politicians grant themselves. I want to bring the attention to Siv Jensen, our finance minister, who, in an interview with Dagbladet on January 14th this year, said the following about Stortingen's lucrative pensions: «It is totally unmusical that politicians at Stortinget should sit and give themselves such good conditions...». Was there an SV who said this? That's not it. It was the head of the Progress Party and the country's finance minister. So she said, «It is totally unmusical that politicians at Stortinget should sit and give themselves such good conditions...». The Minister of Finance may only have been targeted at the former Golden Pension of the Storting. She may think that it is only Stortinget's pension that has been unmusical good. Does her statement apply only to retirement, or could it be that she spoke in a little wider terms and also meant the sum of the total arrangements that we at the Stortinge grant ourselves? I don't know, and I'm not going to put words in my mouth at the finance minister. She is a eloquent finance minister who best answers for herself, but at least she has placed the responsibility for the gross wages where it belongs. In the Question Time on 24 May this year, Siv Jensen said the following: ‘It is not the Minister of Finance who determines the salary of the Minister of Finance, that is what the Stortinget does.’ The Minister of Finance is absolutely right about that. She replied to a question from SV about her reflections that she has so far had a salary increase of over 90 000 kroner in the period. Siv Jensen replied, which is true, that she can't do anything about it. It is the Stortinget that sets the allowances for both depositors, government members and prime minister. It's The Storing that decides this. Then I suddenly begin to see why the Right was such a strong opponent of treating this year's social security settlement in Stortinget. Because if the Storting had been as lavish with the pensioners as the Storting itself is with the Storting, many pensioners would be able to enjoy significant increases in income in recent years, rather than the purchasing loss they have experienced. Let's follow this thought experiment on. Let's vent the completely unheard-of idea – the entirely unheard-of idea that the staging representatives for a moment would be treated as a very average pensioner, that the staging representatives would be satisfied with the same economic development as a very average Norwegian pensioner. Then the calculation would be so that this year the depositors would get an increase equivalent to that of a pensioner with an average pensioner: a pensioner’s $229 600 in income multiplied by the development of pensioners, which is 0.9 pst., which gives NOK 2 066 in increased remuneration. Now there are many glasses in Stortinget. The idea that a staggering representative should withstand the same increase as an average Norwegian pensioner is completely absurd for the majority in this room. I guess some people now think I'm standing here just talking numbers. It is entirely clear from the serious debate that a wholesaler will receive only NOK 2 066 in increments of one year. We're big-time representatives. One thing is that an average pensioner has to deal with less. Another thing is that the purchasing power of society generally goes down. But that a raiser should not get ten times as much money as an average pensioner, it is completely unheard of. Unheard of. Is the idea of an increase in wages for big business representatives and government members and the prime minister of NOK 2 066 far away, totally unprofessional, in a country where we are so proud that the king took the trick? If so, why is that? Why is it reasonable that hundreds of families lose tens of thousands of dollars on the cuts in the children's allowance for disabled dependants, but quite unreasonable that depositors, like the employees and pensioners most, have to tighten up a little? Is the message from the Stortinget to give away – with high unemployment, with high youth unemployment, with increasing disparities, with almost 100,000 children in families with persistent low incomes – that contractions and cuts and lower purchasing power and tighter budgets and a little cheaper impositions, it is for other people, it is not for big ones? Is the Storting absolutely sure that it is an expression of moderation, as the presidency claims, to increase its own remuneration by $21,000 in the economic situation Norway is today, and in the economic situation people most experience today? Is the Storting sure about that? I don't think so. I believe in choice and freedom of choice. That is why SV has put forward three different proposals, which I am referring to here. There is a menu of proposals that will provide real moderation in the year’s settlement of grossing-up representatives. Proposal No. 1 is our primary proposal. That's that the Stortinget, since we didn't bother to deal with the social security bill this year, finds us getting the same chronic supplement that an average Norwegian pensioner gets, i.e. NOK 2 066. I look at the facial expressions around the hall that the odds of impact for that proposal are small, and therefore I clink to with two suggestions for. One proposal is that we regulate our own remuneration by the same percentage as the pensioners. This gives an increase of around NOK 8 000 to each deposit representative. I think that's pretty rusty. If that is also unfair to the majority, we have a proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox It is that, in line with the krona wage growth of an employee with average wages in the private or public sectors, the Storting agrees with us to establish the compensations in line with the krona supplement they have received. I would like each party to come up to this pulpit and explain why they have thought as they have when they vote for their own remuneration. That's a political question. The reasoning of the wage committee itself shows that there is a political assessment, not an automatic one, of what our remuneration increase should be this year. They write that on their own. I invite the parties to speak in this very important debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e292	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e297	We who sit in this room are elected by the people. What does that even mean? Who are we chosen by, and why have they chosen us here? If you look at recruitment to the Stortinget and the nomination processes in the parties, there are very rare people who want to stand up for the Stortinget. I don't know about anyone who makes big decisions because that's the pay they're after. If it had been that way that it's the pay you go after when you're going to make a choice on the Grand Council, I think we'd have got a populace that represents the people even less. But if that's the way this popularly elected assembly, where I think everyone has let themselves be chosen because they're concerned about politics, when you're going to set allowances and benefits for themselves, don't be aware that at the same time you're the assembly that sets benefits and what people will live on when they don't have work, when they get old, when they're disabled or get sick, if you're not aware of it when you set new tax rules, for example, who's going to pay taxes, who's going to get away, who's going to pay a little more, and who's going to pay a little less, when this doesn't start to relate at all to those you're chosen for, and you're not able to live with the benefits or the level of income that you require others to live on, then I'm afraid that this is a development that leads to less trust, and that we's the people we're elected, to a little less and less represent what's the people we're elected. This is what the representative Valen said, that the average population lives on completely different – yes, half of our – wages. And they've got a real wage cut now – the first time after the war. And for the pensioners, there's been a three-year downturn, without the Storting wanting to get hold of it. People live on very low benefits or incomes, many of them. Some of them also have a lot, but many have little. So there's income that we're fixing here in this hall, just like we're fixing our own salary. I've also heard arguments saying, "Yes, but we're so few, it doesn't matter, there won't be any money from this, and it's important to recruit wide, etc." I can see that the salary in Stortinget is good. It has to be. But I've also said before that if that's how you don't manage the salaries you get in the Storting, you can't manage money. That's my honest opinion. I really believe that this is well paid for one of the most interesting and privileged jobs it is possible to have in the country. So if it doesn't reach, maybe the motivation is wrong. Yes, we're few, so this isn't about overturning the state budget, it's not about billions, but it's about trust from the people who have chosen us. So that's the percentage. I tested this out on some schoolchildren yesterday, and I'm going to meet a class with schoolchildren afterwards, I'm going to test this out with percentages on them, too. Because if one gets £2,000 in salary increases and another gets $20,000 in salary increases, who gets the most? Do they get even, sail if the percentage impact on the starting point is equal? Who gets the most? I don't think I'm going to find a single school kid who agrees with the one who says they get the same thing when one gets 20,000 and the other gets 2,000. And that's the way schoolchildren also know that when you go to the store, you don't deal for these percentages of endorsements or rejections in your own payroll, you trade for dollars and dollars. So we have to think about how this percentage increase increases the differences between people. For that is what it does: it increases the difference between the salaries of the depositors and the salaries of ordinary people, and it increases the differences between the income of pensioners and our income. It's escalating. I have also considered and calculated a little – perhaps not as thoroughly as the representative Serigstad Valen – and one of the areas for which my committee is responsible is resident. So from last year to this year only 10 000 fewer people in this country are receiving housing support. There are some of them we're talking about when we're going to grant money to the pensioners, for example, and those who have disability benefits. Yes, how in the world has it been possible that it has ended up like this, when only in the last few years it has become 300,000 more people in this country, and when the bouts haven't just gotten lower? How, then, can we now spend in dollars and ears less on housing support than we did in 2009? Yes, since 2009, we have become over 400,000 more people in this country, and housing prices have increased. It is these people who are going to pay the increased rent with less income, as this great crowd has also determined. It has also been decided that housing, rules and level of performance should be such that there are fewer sheep – so there are 10,000 fewer sheep from just last year. That's the reality very many others live in. I have now been at Stortinget for 20 years, and I hope to continue as well. From the very beginning, this discussion has been ongoing. First, it was with the pensions. And I don't know how many debates I've been in on the Stortinget where you've been at the bully's border to pick up that the Stortinget had gold pensions that didn't depend on what kind of pensions other people had, because it was kind of supposed to be so much more horrible for a magnificent to stand in a job for a few years and then maybe lose it. Yes, so do other people. It was so special to sit on the Stortinget, that there we had to earn our pension in twelve years. No, that's not it. I've had other jobs too, I've worked in kindergarten. It was a much lower salary, and it was a much lower pension. It fell to me, for example. not for a second that I would do a bad job because I had poor pay and poor pension. But it's people who have to stop working there, too. Those who work in private business experience this very often, that they have to stop working and maybe do not have good service. So we went on for a lot of periods before we ended this, and then we go for example. Swing Jensen out in the paper and say that it was terrible that the Stortinget sat and held on like that with her own pensions – from the party that was most likely to retain the gold pensions we had, and where the former leader has even taken his pension case to the Supreme Court to retain his privileges. And now Stortinget has finally agreed to it. That fight has taken SV all the way and has subsequently convinced the others that it is necessary. Today we're spending some time on this because we're seeing a development now, gradually, against the fact that the differences are increasing in society. I don't feel that the majority of the Storting are aware of this and look at the dangers of it. It is on a case-by-case basis that those who have difficult lives should be motivated by incentives that make them poorer, while the most prosperous and those who have the highest wages, the freshest and most pronounced and strongest in society should be motivated by taxes and with high wages and rewards. It's a recipe for growing differences that's not a good one. I'm going to finish now, but I want to say in the end, to all those who are doing this unfair direction of politics that will also make society more different, and that the relationship between us and the community is weakening – I just want to remind you of one thing: nobody has any guarantee for peace, health, work or family relationships, and we're young people probably forever better. Where we are born, we have no influence. Countries where the differences are small and the safety net is good do better. We can make sure of that in this room right here. Equality and equivalency provide safer societies and trigger forces and abilities that do not emerge in societies where the strongest and richest get to supply themselves first, and where the richest and freshest do not contribute as much to the community as they do in their own direction. This big thing can do something about it. Our future success as a country is to ensure good opportunities for education, health care and security for people, and perhaps the most important thing: that everyone is treated with respect, equivalent, and not referred to in a way that makes them ugly and outlawed. Being part of this community triggers great willingness to contribute and participate and take responsibility for sea and others. The Stortinget also has to do that in a matter of how much we should earn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e322	I had not actually intended to draw attention to this matter, but when I heard the representative of Valen's posts, it was difficult not to do so. It was an interesting story, but not one that I knew all about. It is a well-known case that SV opposed the pension reform. Pension reform is important, and the reason for this is that we need a sustainable pension system for future pensioners as well. If you look at the system adopted by a broad majority in this room, there can be no doubt that there is Snorre Serigstad Valens and my own generation who are really going to notice the effect of the pension reform. There is a mechanism in place that also makes today's pensioners take a small part of the change in which future pensioners will participate. I think that's right. In 1967, when the population was introduced in its current form, the retirement age was 70 years, but the average life expectancy was 75 years. Now there were quite enough people who retired early also then, but the expectation was that you would be a pensioner for five years. In addition, you may have started working when you were 20 years old. Today it is not uncommon to start working when you are far up to the age of 20. Real retirement age in Norway, including disability pensioners, is 58 years old, or around, and average life expectancy is nearing 85 years. This picture has changed fundamentally, and pension reform is a necessary tool to ensure that future workers also receive their pensions. It's interesting that the representative Valen attacked the government the other day because we gave tax credits to pensioners. It's one side of the calculation when he shows care for the pensioners' corps that he doesn't include at all. So since 2013, it's given well 2.5 billion. SEK in tax relief for the pensioners, and in addition, the SEK 840 million. kr given in the revised national budget. The basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners increased by NOK 8 000 per couple from 1 September 2016, the minimum pension for the same increased by NOK 4000 from 1 September 2016, and we increase by another NOK 4000 from 1 September 2017. These are moments that the representative Valen chooses smoothly to ignore when talking about the status of pensioners. There was also much else that was said in Mr Valen's posts that might have to be said to go a little off the agenda – the salary line of the big business representatives. When it was said anyway, I feel the need to comment on it. Among other things, questions were asked about government and cooperation parties' policies for those who need the common help of society the most. To that it is said that there is no government in recent times that has done more precisely to help especially children in poor families, but also those who are the weakest. Just look at how the treatment offered to those who are struggling with alcohol and mental health problems has become significantly better through, for example: shorter waiting times, kindergarten has become cheaper for families with poor advice and health cows have been reduced by 80000 in the last four years. Last right in government, they went down by 50,000, but in the gap – when Snorre Serigstad Valen's party was running – they went up. This also affects the weakest among us. It was also said something, not least from the representative Karin Andersen, that those who have the most from before are getting away and contributing less and less to the community. Well, the 10 pst. The richest in Norway contributes almost 40 pst. of the tax intake. There is a fairly large proportion of the total tax revenue that Norway has generated, and the total tax revenue has increased by well 65 billion. kr since 2013. That means $65 billion. more that we can use for well-being and other important societal tasks. Values must be created before they can be shared. That perspective seems to be absent from the Valen argument. We're actually talking about the payroll for depositors, so I'm going to go there in compliance with Section 55 of the Rules of Procedure. Finally, only one remark: under this government, an arrangement has been set up in which extra taxes can be paid on a voluntary basis. It may be an offer that the representative of Valen can make use of if he feels that the remuneration is overly high.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e341	The President will again recall Section 55 of the Rules of Procedure. The President now feels that we have both received a post and a counterpost so that the balance sheet should be drawn up, and now he strongly asks that we stick to what the matter is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e346	Thank you to the representative, Astrup, who spoke on the matter. First, a comment on the view on pension reform. For here it is a question that often separates the right and left sides, namely whether we can afford the welfare of the future, whether we can afford a security that will guarantee everyone in the future, and also whether we can afford the welfare of the future at a time when more people are growing older. Previous Young Right Leaders have probably also been involved in writing books such as ‘Well-being after the welfare state’, and both Young Right and Right have been active debaters to just promote the view that welfare is something that the future cannot afford and to show solidarity with future generations. But in such a message and in such a policy, one is also unsolvable across class and across sex. And it is precisely the generations of the future that are losing on the pension reform, losing on the fact that the premise is cut off in the future pension... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e353	The pension reform is not on the agenda today, so I ask the representative Bergstø to stick to the issue that is on the map.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e358	Therefore it was necessary to make a comment to the representative astrups post, because I thought there was surprisingly little content about the matter we are actually discussing today, in the representative astrups post. I was very excited when the Right took the word, how what we are discussing today was to be defended. It's still a defense I miss. Because I would encourage you to take the floor just to explain why it is right that today we should grant ourselves the supplement that has been proposed. I would like to encourage you to take the floor from the country's main pulpit and actually defend it against the thousands of people who have experienced real pay cuts, and explain why it is reasonable that the Storting allocates itself today more than ten times as much as an average pensioner has received through the social security settlement. There's a talking mute in this case, in this question, about how much we're going to increase our own remuneration, and in many ways increase the distance between ordinary people and the country's elected people. Because it's going to be a distance when those who have the most get the percentages and not the crowns, and it's going to be a distance when we have documents on the basis of the case we're dealing with today that claim that the percentages should be greater – without dwelling on whether or not it's the government's executives that should have been slowed down in the gallop; it would also be interesting to hear some views from the representatives of the leading parties, from the government parties. I don't think it's that exciting, interesting, professionally challenging positions with confidence and responsibility in management and important societal tasks would be unoccupied if the government had stomach problems in its management salaries. Some claim that it is necessary to get the best. I believe that there is a lack of research evidence. I see no reason why any government leaders should be above or in line with the Prime Minister, because if it is that responsibility is the reason, if it is that it is the importance of the work, it should be a clear thank you, and it should be a thank you you too, and not just a criticism that the sky is not high enough for those who have the most from before. For who really has a more important job here in the country, with more responsibility, than the Prime Minister? It is a principle SV has promoted several times, but which I lack excitement around. It's not just the distance in wages, in economics, in the possibilities of money, that increases. Differences in society are increasing. Differences in society are increasing, and there is a direct consequence of economic policies being pursued. Society with small differences is good societies to live in, there are societies where public health is even better, where crime is evenly lower, and where trust is more evenly higher between people. Society with small differences is good societies to live in for everyone, whether you're poor or rich. And it should be a goal to create societies with little differences, but we see that today's government is doing the opposite. That is what we see in the labour market, which is what we see through the attack on the law to protect workers in the labour market, that is, the environmental protection law, a law to set a framework for working days and for working life in a way that allows us to go to work without risking health, without being insecure, without having any predictability today. That is the purpose of the Working Environment Act. The government has been under attack, for example: by introducing a general access to temporary employment. It increases the differences because it makes fewer possibilities. This means that young people, for example: standing without a mortgage. You can only try to get to the bank with a temporary contract and hope for a mortgage. That's not happening. And if they don't flirt with you, they open at least the nice door and ask you to come back when you have the funding in order and a secure income. And if someone were to be so lucky – or unlucky – to have a growing coal on their stomachs while the contract is about to run out, it is not likely to be renewed in a temporary position. A new life is brought forward with uncertainty if you can support yourself and your child because the work ends when the contract ends. It creates greater differences, it creates a more insecure everyday life and a more unsafe working life. And while we've had record unemployment, business neutrality has been mantra. So instead of meeting job vacancies with free hands, a passive industrial policy has extended the suffering. This combined with a centralisation policy, which claims to move out jobs, while, in truth, breaking up professional environments in the capital and putting them around a little while centralising the large number of jobs, also creates greater differences. Greater differences are being created with the policies pursued today. We also see that through well-being, through the well-being of ordinary people in this country. And those who have the least, are hit most. We see it through, for example: have removed holiday pay by day, which means that those who are unemployed have not only an uncertain financial situation, that they are struggling to pay home, bread and pants, but that you also have to see the kids in your eyes and say that there will be no vacation, because Dad lost his job last year, and the government has decided that those who are unemployed will not get anything extra for vacation – regards Siv and Erna. There is a policy for increasing differences. We also see that reducing the transition benefit, both in terms of length, and in terms of the possibility of entering the scheme, helps to increase the difference, because there is a system that will make single-parents stand in the working life with both legs safely planted, where one must have the ability to increase competence, to education, to just be able to support himself and his child. You've reduced it in time, you've reduced the input port to that. And maybe the most petty thing: to reduce the child supplement to the poorest. And the children's supplement is exactly what the word says, that's an addition to having a child -- that supplement that's gonna make sure your kid can keep going on football training when it's ours, and winter has made his feet bigger. There is a policy for increasing differences. It is also the policy pursued through economic priorities, through 21 billion. kr in tax relief for those who already have the most and less to the community, less to ensure safety, tightness of the gap and rather to reduce differences rather than to reinforce them. A policy is being pursued for increasing differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e371	This is not a general debate, it is a debate on our remunerations. Paragraph 55 – the President must refer to it – says that the speaker addresses it to the President and that the speaker should stick strictly to the matter under discussion. I would ask you to respect the Stortinget and the Stortinge Rules of Procedure, and have it going on, otherwise the President will have to end the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e377	My respect for the Storting cannot be called into question, and certainly not my respect for the Rules of Procedure, but I will nevertheless use the opportunity to talk about what is the greatest challenge of our time, namely the increasing differences, and part of what we are discussing today, namely our own remuneration, is a step towards increasing differences because we are today going to grant ourselves ten times as much as an average pensioner has been given an increase through social security, and then it is natural to expect a defense for it. Then it's natural to wish that someone actually takes the floor and tells us why it's right that we should take it today, why we should grant ourselves funds that other people don't have the opportunity to get, through active political action, and that's what I think is a debate that belongs to the country's main pulpit. And it's a challenge that I hope the parties that support this wage development will also defend. It is also the case that the effect occurs from the same date as when the pensioners are fed off with one of the worst social security settlements of the time, a settlement that was not thought to be possible when the pension reform was discussed at the time, because it was considered theoretically that one could end up with reduced purchasing power. From the same date that the pensioners are going to be fed off with the worst social security settlement of the time, after several years in a row of poor settlements, we're going to enrich ourselves, and I think that's a political choice, it's a social choice, and it's also a choice whether you want a policy for increased differences and increased distances or whether you actually want to take action to close the gap. So it's like we've had pension policy secrets in this mess after the new government came. It's a debate we've been trying to travel over and over again, precisely because the social security system determines what you have to live on. But I'm recording that there's more interest in letting his own remuneration increase in silence than in discussing the increasing economic differences between people in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e386	I can assure the President that I will deal with Section 55 of the Rules of Procedure, which says: ‘The speaker should stick strictly to the matter under discussion.’ Then I will draw attention to the basis of the case, which is the remuneration proposal of the Wage and Wage Commission from 1 May 2017. Here's what it says: «As in previous years, the Commission has obtained information from several teams to monitor wage developments in Norwegian working life, both from the private and public sectors.» Later on, the Wage and Wage Commission makes its own subjective assessments of what is a musical procedure for determining remuneration for the Storting. They write: ‘Although it is the Commission’s view that the remuneration of the government’s members should be adjusted over some time in order to bring about a better match with comparable national management salaries, the Commission considers that neither 2017 is the right time to raise the remuneration. [[...]] The background for this is that the Commission itself points to the economic situation of normal Norwegian employees. Clearly, it must be that discussing the trends in wage developments of most people in society, pensioners and employees is relevant to discussing the determination of the Enlargement's salary. Up here in the gallery, there's a bunch of kids. They have to work much longer than the previous generations have had to do to earn the full pension. Is how long does it take for them to work in order to have a pension that is as good as for depositors, not to be considered relevant to the matter when we discuss the Financial Schemes of the Storting for ourselves? Of course, it is relevant — of course, it is relevant for this case that differences in Norway are increasing. Of course, it is relevant that we soon pass 100,000 children living in families with persistently low incomes. Of course, it is relevant to point out that the real wage trend for most people in Norway last year was negative. It is therefore the Commission itself that it does not propose, this year either, the massive increase in allowances for gross domestic product representatives, which they signal that they could actually imagine. In the view of the payroll and presidency, this is a moderate settlement. And if they can file a case and argue in that way, then one of the parties on the Stortinget could say no, we think it is far more reasonable that the Stortinget will settle for the krona increase they enjoy a normal Norwegian pensioner. It is strictly necessary to deal fully with the matter. Then I am very pleased that the representative Nikolai Astrup took the floor, because it is precisely in this case proposal that there is no automatic adjustment of the compensations of the Stortinge. There is a subjective assessment the presidency has made of the current political situation, which underlies what they appear to be a correct determination of the Enlargement's remuneration for 2017. It must mean that, today, each representative in the Chamber who will vote on these remunerations has an opinion on what is the right level of the Grand Prix remuneration for 2017. We don't follow a fixed table. We're not following a formula. Let's make an assessment. The Presidency wants – of course – the Stortinget to adhere to the presidency’s assessment. But then I would like the presidency to participate a little more actively in the debate. How has the presidency reflected, and evaluated, when they have taken the Commission's position into account? The reason why I'm asking is that it's the Commission that brings politics into the picture. It is the Commission that says that given the economic situation of most people in Norway, it will carefully increase the compensation of NOK 21000. Astrup made an interesting call, and it was using the voluntary tax collection scheme that the government – perhaps especially the Progress Party – has been so smart to introduce. I have to say that I have great respect for that kind of political manoeuvre. It was smart. But then we representatives from SV pay extra voluntary taxes. We have a party tax system that allows us to pay about 80 000 kroner each year in addition to the tax paid by other depositors. The representative, Karin Andersen, who spoke a little earlier today, has only paid about 1.15 million since 2001. kr of the additional tax on its income. I'm going to be honest and say that the main reason why we use this lot tax system is that we're a small party that needs those revenues. But another important reason is that it should be a goal that the bigotry representatives live a life that is not completely separate from the lifestyle that most people have – the people we are chosen by, the people we represent. It should not be the case that people are hesitating to get out of the Storing, but on the contrary stay in the period after period for economic reasons – because you can go with great economic loss when you go out. Sitting on the Storting is a privilege. Sitting on the Storting is a big responsibility. Sitting on the Storting is not primarily paid in money, it is paid in the trust given by its voters, the one to manage. It is true, as the representative of Astrup pointed out, that the pensioners in Norway have received 2.5 billion. kr in tax cuts during the period. What he didn't mention was that 80 pst. of which the tax cuts are deducted from the taxes on wealth. There are probably many pensioners with low social security pensions and minimum pensioners who are being spoiled for – or not. The representative of Astrup said that the device on the tax cuts is the same as the device on the other tax cuts the government has provided in this period: an extremely uneven distribution profile – such a biased distribution profile that I would have trouble finding it in advance. If I had warned against the distribution profile of the right-hand side tax policy in the last four years, in the 2013 election campaign, the Right would probably say that I was running a scare tactics. So it is – as I explained earlier today – that the richest prom in Norway has received more than 200 000 kroner each in tax cuts. The fact that a large proportion of the total wealth tax laws in Norway have resulted in pensioners — the richest pensioners — is not an argument that the usual, even Norwegian pensioner has been better off. They have lost purchasing power. Instead of having a debate on what pensioners think about the government's policy, we can look at the protocol entries from the social security system, where UNIO, the Defence Seniors' Association and the Seniors' case write the following: ‘Unio, the Defence Seniors’ Association and the Seniors’ case also refer to the requirement that the government provide the social security balance for real treatment in the Stortinge before the summer. This is necessary to allow the Storting to see the regulation of the basic amount and pensions in connection with the treatment of the Revised Budget for 2017.’;» So it didn't happen. They also write: ‘The organisations believe that today’s regulation contributes to a weakening of the integration of the Pension Reform.’ The YS writes the following: ‘Structural effects in the labour market have marked TBU figures for wage growth in 2016 in such a way that there is good reason to apply the regulatory provisions on ‘specialities’ to the regulation in 2017.’ LO writes the following: ‘LO is disappointed by the government’s lack of willingness to convert the regulation, which results in less fluctuations in the income growth of pensioners and is better anchored in long-term economic development. The LO further regrets that this year's pensioners are not guaranteed real income growth, and points in particular to the situation of the minimum pensioners.» The academics write the following: ‘Academics refer to the possibility of the regulatory regulation to take account of ‘special circumstances’.’ They're still writing that it's «documented that structural effects have reduced the measured wage growth». Furthermore, they write: «We are disappointed that the government does not follow up on this.» This is, like the remuneration we adopt today, the political choices the majority in Norway has taken. The political majority in Norway have decided that it is okay for the regular pensioner to have lower purchasing power for three consecutive years. At the same time, the majority of politicians in the United Kingdom have decided that it is not important enough to have a debate on in the United Kingdom. And the same political majority today say that it is important enough to increase the remuneration of the Storting, that we should set aside time for a debate on it, and that, by virtue of our position, we deserve ten times as many dollars in addition to this year as an average Norwegian pensioner gets. Astrup is absolutely right in one thing. He said, ‘The values must be created before they can be shared.’ He is quite right about that, but that it should be relevant for the determination of the compensation of wholesalers, I have problems understanding. It's not big-time representatives who create values. Those who create the values of society don't sit in this room. They build houses, they wash, they work in the process industry, they're fishermen, they work on the oil platform, and they've all had to endure real wages cuts – as opposed to the deposit representatives. And just that they've had to endure real pay cuts, used by the payroll commission and the presidency itself as an argument that this year we're going to show moderation and just give ourselves ten times as much money as an average Norwegian pensioner gets. I think it would have been worth hearing the reflections from the parties that are going to vote for this today, around why they think it's a moderate settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e473	I would then like to thank the representative Serigstad Valen for keeping to Section 55 in his contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e478	I also come to my post to adhere strictly to Storting’s Rules of Procedure § 55. I'm going to stick to what this case strictly applies. There are different assessments of what's actually going on here. Most people have probably only thought that this should be a matter to go past in silence, and that this is not a matter to actually discuss – that one should actually take the assessments that the Commission has made, that one should actually see itself in the mirror when determining the increased evidence to the depositors. But one shall not be content with the Rules of Procedure; one shall not mix this matter with discomfort. I have full respect for the unpleasant feeling of some, but it is irrelevant for this matter. What is relevant to this matter is the development of wages in society, and that we, as magnification representatives, see ourselves in the mirror from that evolution. 21 600 is what we're going to vote for today. We in SV have other proposals, such as: the most appropriate thing, that we have to have the same wage trend in dollars and cents as the average of the wage groups in society – then we're down to $14,000. Otherwise, we suggest that we show loyalty to those who have really come out badly into the wage trend that has been in the last three years, that is, the retirement list, by having the same wage trend as they do. It would be to show a loyalty to who we represent. But instead, the Storting will continue to adopt a large wage increase for itself – NOK 21 600 – while the rest of the population will get significantly less. We are at the very top of society. At a time when the social partners are asking for moderation, we are increasing more than that to ourselves. We are now in a development where an increasing proportion of the income from the creation of this society is moved from those who have less income to those who have more income – from people's honest work to capital. We see this clearly if one goes into the matter and sees the statistics the Commission builds on this case, that this is social development. It is the capital-intensive part of Norwegian society that is being cheered for, while the labour-intensive part is becoming weak. I would just like to say that the representative of Astrup is absolutely right: one must create values before one can start to distribute. It's actually work that creates values. Capital is not what creates values. It's people's honest work that must be the starting point for all the value creation of this society. As a founder – for whom we otherwise rejoice – said to me recently: We who do not have much money, we must enter earlier and earlier into processes before the demand for capital pushes us out. It's worth noting that even entrepreneurs – people who don't have much capital but have a good idea and a lot of work – now notice that they're being pushed before and before out of the processes because the demand for capital is increasing and increasing as the idea comes out in life. We look at these developments in society by area of society. Why is that happening? Well, it happens because everything between heaven and earth is going to be made a marketplace and blamed. This is entirely relevant to the discussion we have, because when you look at how income trends are in society, you see that more and more of the revenue is linked to debt. We see this in the housing market, where deregulation gives insane prices and skyrocketing loans that lead to more and more people's income going directly to raise financial costs. Never before has the same amount of our income gone to bo, or said in another way: Never before has the financial world lit the same amount on the homes of people. Making ordinary things in society become financial objects and by deregulating social spheres is one of these developments. The result is that they are always the ones at the top of the table that win. And there we are. The others, ordinary workers, are losers. It's exactly this development that we're seeing a stamp of approval today by increasing our own incomes unfathomably many times more than for those who have the least in this society. So we're different about our own income than the income of ordinary people. We declare that we are part of this elite. We want to be on their payroll. Where is loyalty? Just to shed some light on the development of society in some important areas for which the Storting has a major responsibility, I would like to draw up three examples of income development, for three groups. The one is women, the other is farmers, and the third is fishermen. It is a fact – it has been declared by the Stortinget in previous treatments – that we have a gender-based labour market today, where women in the women-dominated professions feel significantly less than in the men-dominated. Women's pay is now 87 pst. of the wages and salaries of men, measured as differences in hourly wages and salaries. Until the mid-1980s, there was a sharp decrease in the hourly difference between women and men, but in recent decades, developments have remained largely silent. The reasons for gender differences in hourly wages are many and complex. Gender differences in pay are highest among two groups: the skilled and those with a high level of education. Men with vocational training are far better off than women with vocational training. This will include, for example: explained that male-dominated vocational training typically leads to better paid jobs in the private sector, while female-dominated vocational training leads to poorly paid jobs in health care and education in the public sector. At high levels, we typically find men in high-wage jobs in the private sector and women in relatively poor paid jobs in the public sector. In fact, even when we look at relatively similar women and men, hourly differences between women and men rise higher in income distribution. So, they're getting higher returns on their investment in education in the world of work across the payroll, but mostly at the top. Around a quarter of the pay gap between women and men who are equally well educated and of the same age may be attributed to differences in wages and salaries between industries, but there are also differences in wages and salaries within industries. Finance industries have the highest hourly wage differentials, where women only receive 70 psts. men's wages are paid for the same type of work, responsibility and education. There are also factors other than each one on the labour market that have a bearing on the current wage gap. Children still mean relatively much for hourly differences between women and men. The hourly difference between mothers and fathers is more than twice the difference in hourly pay between women and men without children. While women are re-entering men when it comes to education and professional experience, when women and men with the same human capital and family situation are compared, the pay gap is still present and the pay gap in occupations and industries seems to be increasing. Why do we have this situation? This is a reality description that has been read and adopted, but still continues. Well, because our collective bargaining system is organized so that it keeps the pay gap up. The negotiating system is structured in such a way that it is the so-called front disciplines that negotiate first and premise the wage negotiations in other industries. Frontal education, or the emerging industries, is largely dominated by human beings. As a result, the wages of women-dominated industries are to some extent related to the fact that they are not to drive wages further up in competitive industries. For this reason, it has been pointed out repeatedly to the UK Government and the UK Government that the pay gap will never be close if the government does not take the initiative to expand the framework for the women-dominated groups, i.e. to be willing to increase the salaries of these professions beyond what is negotiated in the field of primary education. The Licensing Commission calls this a match pot, which SV has followed up here in Stortinget. Erna Solberg called this in the 2009 and 2013 election campaigns a competence pool. But when it comes to the piece, nothing has happened. No initiative has been taken by any government. The pay gap continues to be the same. There is a marginal positive development, only thanks to the changes in the parental leave. It's easy to let a case like this one through the room without debate – hope for one – but when it comes to the situation of over half of Norway's population, it's hard to change. Then it's hard to take any action, even though we've seen this development decades after decades. I ask again, where is the loyalty in this matter when we make it so easy for ourselves to increase our own salary and make it so difficult to increase in the female-dominated professions? Where is loyalty? If you look at what the female-dominated professions are, they're the carriers of the welfare state. 80 pst. Of those who work in the municipalities of Norway today, women, in general there are 70 pst. It's the women's dominated professions that in many ways are what we cheer for as the Norwegian model, the welfare state. They're bearers of our welfare system, and then we treat them the way we do, and ourselves in a completely different way. In agriculture, we are now in a rather critical situation in the agricultural sector, where there appear to be multiple numbers to send the case back to the parties and negotiate with new frameworks. What makes this agricultural decision so interesting is that the farmers want a statement where they get the same wage trend as the average of the SSB's numbers, i.e. $14,000. They don't require NOK 21 600, they require the same thing as the average in wage development. The government added that they would get $7,000 in paychecks, with a total of $410 million. kr – i.e. a half of the average and a quarter of the size that today decides to give itself. Afterwards, there have been negotiations on the Stortinget, when the government and the parties in the statement were unable to become some. It looked like it was possible to get a multiple in the opposition, but all of a sudden the Left jumped off and allied with the government party. Tomorrow we will deal with that matter, but what makes it so relevant to this matter today is the requirement to have equal average developments. It looks like the Storting is now going to reject. It's rejecting the Storting tomorrow. They reject farmers' demands to have the same wage trend tomorrow, but today, a trend in crowns is running far above that of the depositors. Where is loyalty? Where is the loyalty in this room? Why is there no one taking the word when one sees himself in the mirror? Here's a real reason for that. Where is the social debate around this? Is this just something we're going to let ourselves go, that we're going to make ourselves the elite we are, and leave the loyalty of the rest of society to be? Over to fishing: it has been a fantastic good fish they have been thanking Norway and Russia for their historic cooperation on the management of the large fishing resources off the Norwegian coast. Thanks to good management and quota management from different governments, we have managed to keep stocks in Norway at a very good level. That means, in the situation we're in now, with record soft fish, record high prices in the market and a very good currency situation, that Norwegian fishermen are making very good money. That's the big picture. But if you look at just a little bit below the income trends in that group, if you look at the wage trends of fishermen, and what they might look like in the future, I'm going to focus on a report from the cyclical survey of North Norway. They have a report that Menon Economics, Nofima and Salt have developed for them. They look a little behind the speech in the Norwegian fishing industry, and the developments there are alarming. Because what's going on there? Well, we see that an increasingly smaller proportion of the revenue in the fisheries goes to those who actually do the work. Since we have had statistics on fishing in Norway, fishermen have never lit as little of their own fish as they do today. Never before has anyone outside, passive owners, people who have ownership of boats, who have given loans – started as much as today. That group, which in many ways represents coastal culture, and which in many ways represents the basis for our existence in this country, has come into a situation where there are other people who tend more and more of their work. And that's exactly what this government is cheering for when they want to deregulate this area of society as well – opening up to the purchase and sale of quotas, opening up that... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e520	The representative Knag Fylkesnes must be so kind as to stick to the matter. This is about our rewards. The President would also remind us that we have, with this great majority of the Stortinge, set up a payroll commission that gives us a recommendation to deal with. They actually determine the wages and salaries. It is not relevant to discuss whether we should have a pay commission to assess all areas of society. We are now discussing whether to adopt what the payroll commission has laid down and which we are going to decide here today. The representative must be so kind as to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e525	I stick very tightly to it, because I have read the matter on which it is based. I've actually seen myself into it. In the case that is the basis for this debate, one of these points to wage developments for all areas of society in this country. It's a separate theme that makes assessments of it. That's what we're invited to do today, and that's where SV says no, we're not some of these assessments. This is the reason why we're not some of these assessments. Then, based on the speaking time that we actually have, we show different examples and areas of society, which reinforces this foundation. I just want to remind you that if one defines Section 55 so strictly that one has to keep parts of the case outside the case when one discusses it, then one has created a precedent for other things that I really don't believe Stortinget wants. I would like to underline: Don't make discomfort part of the assessment of § 55. I want to ask that I continue with the speaking time I have here, and perhaps even get measured for a few more minutes so that I can continue the reasoning I was inside. I'm going to promise that I too will come to a conclusion here, and I'm even going to be able to do it within the speaking time, because I just don't have enough on my heart to last another 12 minutes – even if I could make it, and that would be strictly within the theme. I was concerned about what is social development in the fisheries sector. So an increasing proportion of the revenue from fishing goes to those who don't do the job, those who don't fish, but who are passive owners in this industry. The report from the cyclical survey of North Norway thinks I'm a wonderfully good report that's extremely alarming for developments at sea, because it means that there are ordinary workers who get weakened, and that it's the investors who tend to. How has this happened? How have the proud Norwegian fisheries suddenly become an area for investors? How did that happen? There we come up with what is deregulation in this, and it has direct consequences for the income development of this important group of Norwegian society. One has the regulated allowance system. The quota system is built up in such a way that you can buy allowances and sell them, etc. One has made it a market place, one has made it a financial object that can be converted in the same way as things on the Norwegian stock exchange. This boosts prices and means that more and more fishermen have to take up debt in order to buy a larger quota, and this has led to young people not having the chance to buy into the closed fish. So for a normal allowance, a youth would have to spend four to five million. NOK to purchase rights. Who in all the world of youth today can afford it? It's nobody. They are shutting out of fish outside the natives with these societal developments. Now developments have gone so far that an effective coastal community is also shutting down outside, because the capital in Norway today is not gathering along the Norwegian coast, he is not gathering in North Norway. Rather, on the contrary: 40 pst. of the capital in Norway today is in Oslo and Akershus. So you see how ownership is moved from work, from the geographical areas where one is in the vicinity of fish resources, and to others. That's the desired development one will have here. How does the representative Astrup manage to make it a question of creating values before allocating them? It's the opposite of what you see here. To all those who think one should have equal wage developments in Norwegian farmers today, which is a large plurality on the Stortinget: at least consider voting in favour of proposal No. 3 from SV. This will lead to the same wage trend as we would like for Norwegian farmers – equal in crowns. Or for those who are concerned that the minimum pension list should have a better situation: consider voting for proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox It's not like we have too little money, we're sitting on the Stortinget, but what we can at least show in this case is how loyalty is.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e548	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e553	I've used up my speaking time, so it's going to be with a short comment. I would like to thank you for the debate. There are not so many people who have participated, but I think it has been informative, precisely by virtue of it. That is why I will give tribute to the Right, who will take the floor and explain why they believe the proposed increase in compensation for the representatives of the Storting is correct. It says respect, it's a completely fair point of view. What I'm asking about, is that the rest of the parties in Stortinget later, as if it's automatic in that the compensation for deposit representatives is going to increase by NOK 21 000, because it's not. The whole basis for the case is the subjective assessment of wage developments in Norwegian society by the Wage and Wage Commission. The Commission says they could envisage a larger increase, but it is not advisable because of the economic situation. That's why we're moderate and we're giving ourselves $21,000. This means that it must be assumed that the parties in the Grand Duchy today, when they adopt this increase in remuneration, have themselves assessed whether they think it is right and that it is right that a representative of the Grand Duchy should be given: [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e560	There's no time for speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e565	There are obviously many things you can address in a debate, and I think the debate we have had today, well actually has been a demonstration that almost limits to increasing the political debate. There's something about that in Stortinget we have an agenda, we're going to work together on projects, we have a lot of decisions to make, and of course we're going to end up with a result. This debate really has a slightly wrong starting point, because we've now got a payroll commission that recommends a pay supplement of 2.4 pst. We are also subject to the provisions of the Consumer Price Index. The consumer price index is now at 3.6 pst. In fact, this means that even the members of the Storting must tolerate a real wage decrease when we have a moderate increase. It's not quite unusual in society to use percentage supplements, it's a good tradition for it, and so I don't see the whole point that we in the Storing should deviate from a percentage as it's set up here. Then I have to say that I am not completely familiar with the description that we have gradually received from us – how unsocial and completely impossible we are, we who stand for what is the setting. In fact, I think -- most of us -- we have a background from work, we're a business part of ourselves, we know what pay is, and not everyone has had a high salary. At all, we are ordinary people. We also have the heart for what's happening in society, but we have different ways of meeting the challenges, and I think we have to respect each other for that. I think this is the right time to speak. We actually have a real wage decrease, we also, in relation to consumer price developments, which is now greater than the wage growth we allow to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e577	I would like to thank you for the debate. I would like to thank the Right, who is taking the floor in the debate, although I still lack a clear defence for today's decision. I have a few comments for the previous speaker, the representative, Mr Igstad. I think very few in Norway feel sorry for big business representatives if we should lose purchasing power. We're on a completely different pay scale than the large majority, and that's the starting point for SV in today's debate. I also know very well what salary is. I know that when I, as a newly educated social worker, was able to serve mortgages, it was a difficult situation. I have been at the store several times and have not had cover on the card as the groceries were to be paid. Luckily, there's been a feeling in the back of the line that could spend, but that's the kind of experience that we're here for, because we're on a completely different pay scale, and then there's also a completely different debate. You could say that there have been assessments of how much compensation should be increased, etc. What we can't accept is the passive attitude that lies here, the talking silence that's in the case, that's in the hall. That's what we've been trying to touch – and show that it's actually active choices we're making. We adopt our own remuneration today with active votes and with active votes against, and we are invited to decide on the very question of increasing the remuneration. We have today promoted three different options to show that there are other ways to do it, that there are other assessments on this matter. Finally, I would like to ask the representative Igstad what he thinks really increases the political debate. Is it that we increase our own remuneration in silence, or that we actually take a discussion about how far there should be between a normal salary and our own remuneration? Is it that we have a discussion about the development of people's economic situation, or is it that we just knock through – in a comfortable way – our own increase in remuneration? What is increasing the political debate can really be discussed, but it is hardly within the Rules of Procedure today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e590	At least I don't think that if we give ourselves a supplement that's in line with what everyone else is willing to do, the political demise won't get any bigger. The whole basis for this debate has been that we have produced it as if we have a real wage increase that is greater than everyone else's, but we do not. Our growth is at 2.4 pst. The price increase is 3.6 pst. This is therefore not a real wage growth grant. We stick to what everyone else does. This is a system on which Norwegian society is built. You have different wages and salaries for the job you do, depending on your education and your responsibility. Being a representative of big business involves much greater social responsibility than I have as a farmer, for example. I'm a farmer, I've been making my money on the farm every year. But I've also been a politician, and I see that taking on the social responsibility it is to be a politician is a value in itself. And I think most people appreciate the job that politicians do. What SV has done here is to erode something of – I was saying – the dignity of the Greatness. You have to talk about the matter, and they have gone far beyond what is in Section 55. We have sat here and heard and heard. It's made a picture that I, as a big-time representative – and I think it applies to all the other big-time representatives too – won't take over me. We're here doing a job. We get a pay increase that's in line with other people's. I mean it should be like this, because you have to value the job we do, and not talk it down. There's an incredible number of competent people in the Biggest, and they're doing a lot of work. They're good at getting involved in business and doing the job on behalf of society. I think people out there -- most people -- understand and value the job we do. There's no shame in getting a pay supplement in line with everyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e599	I would like to thank the representative Igstad for participating in the debate and present what, in his opinion, is a defense of the decision today. I think it's important, and I respect it. It is very important to realise that there are different points of view in this case, because consider whether this matter should only be overlooked in silence, and that no one in this room, none of the 169 people elected, dared to take it up, and that one did not have to defend the proposal that lies here about a moderate percentage increase in wages, but with a notice that one should get a significantly better wage development later. Some comments about what I used to say: there's no one living by percent, a liver of heads and ears. It doesn't help with percentages when you're going to go to the store, or when you're going to buy shoes for your kids. There's no one getting help from it. If you have a low salary and get the same percentage increase as we do today, it's significantly less. We have an identical discussion going on right now, which is to be completed tomorrow in Stortinget, which applies to the farmers. They require equal wage developments — measured in dollars — as other groups in society. So they don't require percent, because then we know that the pay gap would be big. They require equal wage developments measured in dollars. Around half of this room agrees that they should have equal pay developments measured in dollars. The center part is completely in agreement with SV in it. The Christian People's Party is in complete agreement with SV in it. The working party almost completely agrees with SV in it. But in this case, which relates to the wage development of the big business representatives, none of them take the floor. I'll advise them to do that. I have our founder, and I have worked both in the private business and in the public sector. I know all sides of this case. Politician contempt is not created by discussing this. Politicians' views are created if one does not answer these questions. It would be under Storting's dignity not to discuss it. Unfortunately, it should not be confused that it is wrong to deal with this matter. It must never be confused. When it comes to talking up and down the big business: I think it's an extremely important job and a privilege to be allowed to represent the people of the Stortinget. But it's not through the pay we talk about the job that people do. This means that those who care at least in this society do not do an important job, while those who care the most in this society do the most important thing – that there is pay that reflects the importance of the job. This is not a discussion about chatting up or down the chat room. I can talk about this in another debate, except for Section 55 of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure. This is about pay, being able to see himself in the mirror and showing where loyalty lies – whether he is here, among us, or whether he is with other groups in this society, for a year when we are asking for moderation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e616	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e632	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e641	I would first like to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation in the examination of this communication. Avinor’s societal mission is to own, operate and develop a nationwide network of civil sector airports. In addition, they have a single civil and military air navigation service. Avinor shall initially be sea funding, whether there are two exceptions to Bodø airport and new airport at Mo in Rana in the coming NTP period. Avinor is currently responsible for 45 airports following the closure of Narvik airport. The Avinor model is a co-financing between profitable and unprofitable airports. In 2016, eight airports had a positive operating result, while the remainder, i.e. 38 airports, had a negative operating result. Of Avinor's income, approximately half from fees. The remainder comes from commercial revenues, about half of which are from free sales at airports. The revenues from the major airports, Oslo, Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim, are essential for maintaining a profitable airport network and the way we have organized it. A Joint Committee supports Avinor’s objective to further develop Oslo Airport as a national and international hub. Avinor believes that Oslo Airport will reach the capacity limit around 2030 and that a third runway will then be needed. It is important that Avinor exploits today's capacity and today's runways as far as possible with the use of technological solutions for approach and departure management and, where appropriate, physical measures before taking this step, but the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party, supports Avinor's continuing to plan a new third runway and that the Eastern option be used as a basis for the further process. A minority of the Centre Party and the Left do not want further work to be done on a third runway. Avinor has been through major investments, not least with new terminals at Oslo airport and at Bergen airport, which will be opened later this year. Avinor has several projects in progress, such as: extension of terminal capacity at Stavanger airport. There is also a need to expand the capacity of Trondheim Airport in the near future and to expand the terminal at Tromsø Airport. The air navigation service shall invest in a new en route system platform. Furthermore, we must invest in the new remote-controlled tower technologies. An overall committee refers to the NTP period 2018-2029, where funds have also been allocated for the transfer of Bodø airport and the development of new airport at Mo i Rana. With regard to the Mo-Rana airport plans, a Joint Committee has asked the Ministry of Transport to continue its work in cooperation with Avinor with the project with a view to finding a sound financing solution as soon as possible. This must be done in close cooperation with local and regional actors. The Committee also takes the view that no changes are being made to the current airport structure in Helgeland in the construction of a new large airport in Mo i Rana. This means that Lake Mosque Airport Kjærstad is not laid down in the construction of a new airport at Hauan, as previously provided by Avinor. The Committee also welcomes the continuation of Avinor’s plan to invest in new Hammerfest airport and any new airport in Lofoten. Avinor works with remote towers. Between 2017 and 2020, 15 of Avinor’s airports will move to remote-controlled towers, which will then be remotely controlled from Bodø. I would like to add that a majority in the Committee agrees to this, but believe that further competitive outsourcing of remote-controlled towers should be awaited until their impact has been assessed. It is positive that Avinor has clear objectives of being a driving force in the environmental work of aviation and focuses on minimising the environmental impact of its own activities. It is important that this work is given high priority at all aerodromes. It is also important that Avinor is a driver in order to facilitate the provision of public transport to and from airports as much as possible. As regards the further competitive deployment of critical functions such as fire, rescue and ground services, the majority of the Committee considers that experience from Bodø Airport should be gained and the evaluation of Bodø should be awaited before any new competitive outlook is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e675	First of all, thank the case-speaker for a good explanation of the committee's position on the matter. Avinor has an important role to play in developing a competitive Norwegian aviation industry. Today, the company has an almost monopoly on Airport and Air Navigation business, and the Ministry of Transport exercises ownership and financial regulation of the company. That's the underlying Avinor model. It is important to ensure that Avinor carries out its defined societal mission effectively. The Ministry expects Avinor to commit itself to the launch of the competition for rook and approach services in 2017. The company wants to establish remote-controlled towers at Airports where it is more cost-effective than competitively deploying traditional air navigation technology. The Ministry of Transport believes that cost-effectiveness must be given priority, and I agree with Avinor's assessment of prioritizing and using remote-controlled towers. It is also positive that a process has been initiated to move ownership of Avinor Air Safety AS out of the Avinor Group. Aircraft noise is very stressful for those who are being hit by it, and from time to time, someone is turning to us about it. The Committee takes the view that further efforts are being made to minimise the disadvantages actually created by air traffic with regard to noise pollution, and in particular with regard to the new types of helicopters which have been shown to cause extra large noise nuisances in some areas. It is a pleasure that the new terminals at Oslo Airport and Bergen Airport are finally completed in 2017. The airport structure in Norway with many aerodromes depends on efficient major aerodromes, with the Gardermoen as the main hub. Avinor has shown himself visionary both in the work done by the company to facilitate the use of bio-jet fuel and in its long-term project, which is to facilitate electric passenger aircraft and enable them to use the Avinor Airports in the future. Developments have often been shown to go much faster than what you first see happening. Take, for example: electric cars and autonomous vehicles, both of which have not been considered as floating prospects for the future. Aviation is an important pillar of Norwegian transport, and electric and hybrid aircraft can revolutionise air traffic at short distances. The Norwegian short-haul network may prove to be an important part of this development, a development that could be of great importance to those operating the airports and provide us with an even better flight supply. It is important that we, as the governing power, follow these developments closely, and that we enable ourselves to make the best possible use of the technology that exists at any given time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e696	Avinor’s activities are important for AS Norway. The choices made actually have consequences for most of us. Already now we see that operating costs are increasing less than income, and that is a good trend. It benefits all the small and large airports. It was a study in 2012 that described much of the effectiveness being achieved, and how much it was to pick up at particularly small and smaller airports in terms of conversion, efficiency and modernisation – in the sense of creating a framework that is flexible in order to keep pace with time. That is what this communication from the Ministry does, and I would also say that the Committee is concerned about. We know that the future brings increasing traffic, technological changes, increased competition from foreign carriers to land, and not least a wilder and wetter weather. This means something to the aerodromes, for how both preparedness and regularity must be present. Here, Norway and Avinor will be in the front line. It is now signaled by the Council of State and the Ministry that a new study will be carried out, which will also look at the potential pointed out in relation to the outsourcing of competition. Avinor needs to be developed. Avinor must be in line with society around him. Looking at unprofitable airports, it's not something more important for district policy than getting the small, unprofitable airports to stand up, and that means that the cost level has to go down. So the question is also, what is socio-economic profitability? Take Bodø Airport, which we have now decided to move the runway parallel. The cost is there, but for society as a whole, Bodø will be able to develop a whole new city, which will provide socio-economic profitability. Then it goes without saying that this is good. Then you have the income from Oslo airport, which is actually the hub of the whole system. They're hugely important. I see that the Centre Party and the Left do not support further work on a third runway. Why not? For the Central Party, this is so absolutely district friendly. We're going to get transport, we're going to get people to fly from the districts to the Gardermoen. There must be room, and it must be possible to fly differently, not necessarily via three and four small stations, but so that you can get directly. Then I also mean directly from Oslo and out in the world. Then we need a third runway. Oslo airport shall be capable of being competitive in order to enable large airlines to use our main aerodrome as transited on international routes. In terms of Left's vision and resistance to a third runway – it can argue so far for itself – where the environment is primarily used as an argument, I would point out what the previous speaker said about the future aircraft, which may be electrical, which can eventually switch to biofuels. What is the argument? It doesn't help, if you see the climate debate as a whole, if all the airlines we hope will manage to use Oslo as a transit, land on Arlanda or in Copenhagen. The emissions are going to be the same. In any case, when this part of business is to flourish, we are to ensure that it flourishes in Norway. People in Norway don't want to fly from A, B, C or D. I've heard the argument before. It is believed that very many will land on the Gardermo to then take a bus or train, for example. to other regional aerodromes to proceed from there. That's not how it works. People will quickly get where they're going, both business and most people who're going on vacation. And we have to make that right. The pilot scheme of simplified transfer has been very, very important — not least for the districts, where it is now possible to transport the baggage directly through. This is what this government has delivered on. Three former finance ministers have not been able to solve it. Our finance minister managed – and that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e715	Avinor has been a success story. The change that made the Aviation Administration Avinor has produced good results. Through Avinor we have had a modernisation of Norwegian aviation. When the Bondevik II government transformed the Swedish Aviation Agency into a public limited liability company, new opportunities opened up at a time when aviation became more and more important. A reliable and good flight offer is very important not least in the districts. It's all about people getting to and from, but it's also about having a good health offer for everyone. Air transport is a central part of the Norwegian health system. The cancellation notice shows that there is a positive development in the company. It's good to be able to establish that Avinor is essentially doing its social mission well. In the view of the Christian People's Party, today we have a funding model based on some principles. Cross-subsidisation allows us to have airports in the districts and across the country within a self-financing model. At the same time, there's something creeping around. I am thinking about the tax-free system. The aggressive and intrusive sales that are taking place, not least at the Gardermoen, must be brought to an end. One solution might be that the Vinmonopole takes over. The Christian People's Party is open for the Wine Monopoly to take over the operation of the tax-free scheme at the end of the current agreement. We have a note about this in the setting, together with the Working Party, the Center Party and the Left. And this is also something the Biggest thing about the budget has asked to be investigated. Therefore, the Christian People's Party is pleased with the conversations that are now taking place between Avinor and the Vinmonopolet. The Christian People’s Party also agrees that Oslo Airport should be further developed as a national and international hub. Good air transport is very important for people and businesses in the districts. With Norway’s location, good and effective relations with the rest of the world are of great importance. Many journeys need to be made via a hub in Norway, and it is therefore important that such hubs function as well as possible. There is a debate on a third runway at the Gardermoen. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to say that of course we expect Avinor to make maximum use of today's capacity on today's runways before we talk about any possible expansion in the form of a new runway. New technological solutions or simple physical measures may be involved. In the setting, Christian People's Party repeats what we have also said earlier about a third runway, where we emphasize the importance of clarifying the area question. In several rounds we have pointed out that it is urgent to clarify the necessary area for a third runway at Oslo Airport. It is not so much new from our side in that matter. For example, we can refer to the budget setting for 2016, where we recommended the government to clarify the necessary areas. A broad majority was behind it. But that doesn't mean we're going in for a third runway now. What has been important to us is relationships with the bonding, so that one avoids tying unnecessary areas. If a third runway should become current in the future, the Christian People's Party believes that it is such an important matter that it should be dealt with by the Stortinget when that time comes. Finally, some words about air navigation services. The Christian People's Party has been on the verge of streamlining and postponing the tower services, among other things. proposed in a draft representative as early as 2012. It is positive that air navigation services are put off by competition. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party agrees that the development of remote-controlled towers provides opportunities for more efficient operation and exciting technology development in Norway. At the same time, it is important to keep up progress on the competitive deployment of tower services at aerodromes that will not be covered by remote-controlled towers, i.e. at many medium-sized and larger airports. I would clarify this if there were doubts about what the Christian People's Party believes in this matter based on the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e736	The centre party is very pleased that we are continuing today's funding of Avinor. It is important to ensure the grid around the country. In 2016, there were eight airports with an operating surplus, while the rest had a deficit. The grid is important and connects the country. It is the most effective transport solution we have over long distances, not least to ensure welfare offers and health travel around our long-term country. The centre party is towards the development of a third runway at the Gardermoen, primarily based on soil protection considerations, but also because we believe it is possible to take part of foreign traffic from larger regional airports instead of going all over the Gardermoen. We believe it is important to make the best possible use of current capacity on the two runways and expect the use of new technology solutions for approach and departure. The centre party is critical of any competitive outsourcing of air navigation services. We believe it is right to await experience from remote-controlled towers before considering the competitive outsourcing of air navigation services. Furthermore, we are very much in favour of using the Vinmonopole, at least considering them as an actor, for the sale of alcoholic goods on duty-free when the agreement with the tax-free actors expires today. There's a lot of good reasons for that. I refer you to the representative of Bollestad's post for that very thing. The centre party is in favour of the investment plan for Avinor. The mountains are now nearing completion, Stavanger next year. Enlargements are needed both in Trondheim and in Tromsø, as well as new projects – both in Bodø and Mo in Rana. That's very good. There is an overall committee which states that no airport should be closed as a result of the investments at new Mo in Rana airport. As a resident of Helgeland, I'm very happy that an overall committee is so clear about it, because it's been a bad case for many years. The centre party now believes it is important to set new ambitious targets for public transport to and from Avinor airports and expects Avinor to facilitate this. Furthermore, the Central Party assumes that Avinor concentrates as much as possible on its societal mission, which is to own, operate and develop a nationwide network of civil sector airports and an overall civil and military air navigation service.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e751	Avinor is self-financing and well organised — organised in a way where the eight business-economically profitable airports finance a comprehensive short-haul network. It's a successful organization, and the main regional policy effect of this is just to stick to the short-range network that we have. I – and Left – also support the decision of the Committee that we should not shut down any airports, nor on Helgeland. It must be firm. It is important to focus on the environment. One thing is that many airports in Norway have very good collective coverage. It has to be continued. From the left, I would particularly like to point out the plans for a new double track between Trondheim and Værnes, which will also be dealt with in connection with the national transport plan. It is important that the plans are continued, and there is no contradiction between planning for a new double track and electrification on the Thrønderbahn. There is no doubt that air transport has high greenhouse gas emissions, and it will have for many years to come, although it is good that Avinor and Norway are in the forefront of offering integration of ‘bio-jet fuel’, and we have plans to have marketing requirements or integration requirements for biofuels in aviation transport as well. But in any case, for many, many years there will be large greenhouse gas emissions associated with air transport, and we have to take that on board. In the case of a third runway on the Gardermo, it is true that the Left is fundamental to it. It's locally justified, because this is such an important soil protection issue that there's no reason to bind this area, and then it's the way that many people think, and we also assume that we need to use the Gardermoen capacity as much as possible. That is why we believe it is important now that we start up new technology. The analogue approach system ILS will need to be replaced. You have a new GBAS system, which will make you get a closer approach, you can get increasing frequency, it could be less noise. Here it is important that we now, as we also refer to in a note, start with the certification project that is needed, so that Norwegian actors, who can be internationally leading on this when it comes to business development, can also start this project. And then we have to make maximum use of the capacity of the East. We have a third runway on Rygge. It is clear that there is no reason to facilitate that all flights, whether there are charter flights or what it is now need to be concentrated on the Gardermoen. We can also use smoke in the years to come. The reason for having a third runway is not the number of passengers passing through the Gardermoen. Now it's 25 million, and it's expected to be 35 million. You have airports like Heathrow – it's a long way off and has 70 million passengers. It's about there's a very large domestic flow of transportation morning and evening, and it's getting up the number of flights at the busiest time that's the purpose. Then we have to see this third runway up against the bet that we also have on the railways between the big cities. We fly very much 500 kilometers in Norway. We must have a railway that can be made more competitive for more people, also by getting a better offer and combining the offer with both Torp and Rygge. Fortunately, in the transport plan, we now also have a decision to look at long-range high-speed studies again in Norway, so that a network can be established between the major cities of Scandinavia. This is the long-term assessment. So is the Gardermo. And that's huge expenses. I guess it's estimated it'll cost 19 billion. kr for the third runway. This must be seen in the context of the need to take more of regional air transport with alternatives and, above all, it is the railway that can be competitive. Finally, the international air transport is now heavily invested in Kastrup, Arlanda and Oslo. We believe that here we need to look more at cooperation between these airports, without necessarily having to fight – each one – about exactly the same passenger. After all, it's a system thinking we have to take into account, so that it offers the best possible offer and uses the capacity of the three major airports.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e770	The essence of this matter is that we are responsible for combating climate change. Planes are energy-intensive. In addition, air travel has the highly warming effect of condensing strips. Planes are one of the most climate-affecting travel we're doing. Aeroplanes are the most polluting means of transport per passenger kilometre. Sometimes we have to fly because it's important. I fly too much myself, so there's no moralism in this. It is important to have in the back of the mind that aircraft cause large greenhouse gas emissions. Therefore, when planning the transport sector in the coming years, it would be natural to imagine how to manage to limit the most polluting way of travelling. We should look at alternatives to travelling more and more by plane – at least for those travelers who have alternatives – between the largest cities. It would have been natural to see developments in the aviation sector in the context of the rest of the transport system in Norwegian society and to assess investments in air traffic against, for example. investments in rail. Today, when I talk about a third runway on the Gardermoen – like the previous speaker – and the need to cut greenhouse gas emissions from air traffic, it would have been most natural to do so in the context of the treatment of the national transport plan. But the government doesn't want to. For the government and the supporting parties, it has been most natural to deal with airport extensions in Norway’s largest city as being almost unpolitical, which is not related to the environmental policy pursued here in the country. In concrete terms, we can read in the message that the government assumes that Avinor is continuing to plan the new runway on the Gardermo. The message states that it is unclear when the need for a new runway arises and that the government is not now taking a position on the development. It is not a particularly active attitude to combat emissions and pursue a progressive environmental policy. The focus of Avinor's environmental work is on blending biofuels into its fuel. And so do we when it comes to road traffic. But we're in the paradoxical situation that in the urban areas of Norway we're dealing with car-restrictive measures, and we have zero growth targets, but for the most polluting way of travelling, we don't have similar goals. Since the government has a lack of environmental analysis of air traffic, I'm going to try one. Aeroplanes account for more than half of the climate impact from the voyages of the North. Air traffic from Norwegian airports is three and a half times as large per capita as the average for EU airports. 3 of Europe's 15 most traffic routes are Norwegian domestic routes, Stavanger-Oslo, Bergen-Oslo and Trondheim-Oslo. Air traffic in and out of Norway has increased sharply. In particular, foreign traffic is growing, and so does greenhouse gas emissions from this traffic. From 2002 until 2014 greenhouse gas emissions from air traffic from Norway to the rest of the world have increased by 109 pst. Avinor believes the capacity limit for the two runways we have today, reached in 2028, with 35 million passengers per year. In 2016, traffic amounted to about 25 million passengers. With a third runway, it can be increased to 42 million. In addition, a new runway occupies very large areas of cultivated land. Ports east of the airport remain as potential sources of pollution for the large water basin at Gardermoen. A new runway is estimated to cost 19 billion. kr, and in addition, the extension of the terminal. If investment is made, it has to be paid, and then the pressure is even greater to facilitate growth in air traffic, and it becomes more difficult to endorse measures that reduce it. This is an evil spiral. It is a self-enhancing dynamic that can hit the legs during the bet on, for example. a good train offer between the major cities south of Norway and further from Oslo towards Gothenburg, Stockholm and Copenhagen. It is also a problem that the development of Avinor is not subject to the same requirements for investigations as road and rail projects. We're going to promote the proposal to scrape a third runway on the Gardermo in connection with the NTP, where it belongs. Taxfree accounts for half of Avinor's sales revenue. We have decided in our program that we are going in to abolish the tax-free system. That's one of the things I know there's a lot of excitement about in almost all the parties in the Storting. It is neither good alcohol policy to push alcohol to get people to fly or good climate policies to give tax cuts to finance cheap airline tickets. Tax-free as a concept would never have been proposed as an aerodrome financing platform if anyone had come up with that idea today. We have to do something about that. We also want to impose a flight relief fee on individual sections to finance lightning trains between cities. It is a forward-looking, environmentally friendly and smart way to ensure that the means of transport of the future between the major cities are financed, comfortably and quickly and more in line with the climate policy we want to pursue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e791	Free as the bird, there is something called – simply because one can hover a little high to see the world in a larger perspective, get over obstacles and over long distances in a fast and efficient way. That's how the aviation industry is. It allows us to have extremely good mobility – both in our own country and not least in other countries – which enables us to keep physically in touch with our neighbours across both short and long distances: establishing friendships, exchanging experiences, engaging in business, developing cultural life, experiencing leisure opportunities and holidays. I think it's a fundamental good for society, not something we have to problematize, as some people here do by making it almost wind up. The challenges it brings with regard to noise for neighbours to aerodromes, and with regard to emissions from aircraft, we shall address. But not building infrastructure makes it harder and more expensive to use the flight offer. That's not the way you give people air under the wings -- literally. Through Avinor we have found a good order. There are 45 aerodromes operating, one drawing on experience from each other, one ensuring that those airports with high revenues contribute to the financing of those airports with low revenues, but which nevertheless are an important part of having a wide airport offer for the whole country. We could have thought that it was only the profitable ones to operate, but it had not given us the flight offer that is relevant to developing our nation. I think it's good that Avinor has income enough to finance the operation of the unprofitable airports. In fact, the tax-free system is an important system. In this case, those who are tax-free must ensure that one imposes customs duties on each minimum bottle of alcohol from abroad – just to take one to Sweden and not to drink the six-pack, but to bring a bottle home, a stop at a customs post and toll it. That makes little sense, I don't think, because the option that a person removes the tax-free sale only at Norwegian airports makes any sense. This will still mean that people can buy tax-free at foreign airports before they get to Norway. Then a single person has moved the income that Norwegian airports get, to support foreign airports. It's strengthening Schiphol, Kastrup and Arlanda at the expense of Gardermoen, Værnes and the like. It makes no sense if we actually want to develop Norwegian jobs, Norwegian airports and Norwegian transport services. Therefore, the tax-free system is good – unless some batches will eliminate all possibility of consuming alcohol tax-free, including on the first bottles. We still have to make sure that Avinor operates more efficiently, that we get more money back, and that we can cut costs, just because it enables us to strengthen the survival of the airports we have, and even look at several airports in the future. It is therefore important that Avinor take the signals that both the government and the Stortinge give about effective operation – and all the way has to challenge itself. The Avinor organization I'm experiencing is just at that level. A few weeks ago, I traveled to 19 airports in Norway. Then we saw how important this was – from the large airports that no one doubt has the right to life, to the small ones, who sometimes fear being put to rest. It's a discussion that this government has told us not to take, we think they're important. A meeting of business actors in travel and e.g. in many advanced medical companies that say that some of the quality of life in Norway is to be able to get up in the morning – on Sandane – give their children a good morning meal and go out into the big world, whether it is Oslo, Trondheim or outside the border of the country, and know that you can probably get back that night and lay your children. It doesn't get one more if you're going to start strangling the airport network, which we heard earlier talk about – and believe that it's solved by people taking the train or driving a car. It is actually a quality that means that aviation needs to be further developed in this country. That is why the third runway is also important. Many of the actors we met at the 19 airports said it was unusually important that they get out of the local airport in the time between half past seven and eight. If one then has limitations on Gardermoen’s capacity, it means that many of these will not be able to land on the Gardermoen until the 11th – 12th time. Then they don't reach the plane into the world, and then they don't come home to the family. Therefore, this is some of the quality of life in Norway – a third runway needs to be discussed. We're going to be able to cut emissions. Avinor goes far with biofuels, and even further we're going to get in the next ten years using electricity. It gives range anxiety a new dimension today, but I'm sure in ten years we'll see differently. Then we have solved both noise and emissions problems and can enjoy a good infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e810	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e816	I agree with the Council of State that it is important that Avinor retains and obtains its income. It's the whole rootstock of the Avinor model that revenue goes to operate our entire network – and in addition, it's dividends to the state. I agree with what is said here about tax-free. There's no point in doing anything about it if you don't do anything about the allowances, but that doesn't mean you can't look at who's going to be selling. It's a bit different, and so it's a little funny that the Council of State and the Department are very concerned that in other areas, Avinor will not be able to take advantage of the income opportunities. It is the limitation set in the Size message that does not agree. With regard to the use of Avinor's land, which is there because Avinor has built an airport, it is believed that the development of properties in close proximity should stop – only property development. Why do you have a different view of it? This will also affect the income of Avinor in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e823	It is true that one can earn income by developing commercial property. But one also assumes a significant risk, because there is no guarantee that one always earns money just one investor in something. That's the risk we think Avinor might not have to take, simply because Avinor is very good at operating an airport, but they're not necessarily very good at operating a hotel. There are other professional actors who can ensure that Avinor can initially secure its revenues by owning the properties, while a more professional supplier can do so. But I'm recording what Stortinget is now saying, and I'm not going to argue against it. I take the signal Stortinget gives, and then we're going to make sure that Avinor is as effective and as good as possible in the development of the industry that they run in the areas that they own. Then we also want to stimulate other private industries to participate and contribute, so that one gets a variety of offers – both to the travellers and to the business activity around the airports.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e830	Thanks for the answer. That's good – and in that case, it should just be lacking that you don't follow up the Storting's signals. But there's one thing where the Storting is a little bit disagreed and can seem a little unclear, but at the same time – I think – it's clear, and it's about the air navigation service. The government wants to put it off for competition. It also wants – it looks like – a majority on the Stortinget, but one is a little uncertain when it comes to doing so. Now you have to start a big process in the tower service to see if you can do anything about the costs there, and bet on remote towers. Couldn't it make sense to concentrate on it, and not at the same time focused so much on putting out competition and facilitating it? It can almost seem as if you are really more concerned about it than that Avinor is going to be allowed to do his job, so that this is going to be the best possible, both economically and in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e837	I think it's possible to have a lot of different processes going on at once, as long as one takes account of the different sides – and doesn't go on with things where there's a conversion process and other things that happen at the same time. When it came to remote towers, I listened very carefully to what the representative Juvik said in his post. I realized that what was said was that it was okay for a worker with remote-controlled towers at the 15 airports, and it is also possible, in principle, for a job with competitive outsourcing, but that one must be careful – or really wait – with the outsourcing of the airports that should have remote-controlled towers, until one has experience with it. And of course, we're going to base that on. We also need to ensure that we do not both run a technology process with implicit risk and at the same time an organisation process with implicit risk. We have to make sure that we don't do both parts in one place, but at the individual airport we work either with remote towers or with competitive outsourcing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e844	I wasn't really going to take any more lines, but I almost had to do it to clarify that if it was perceived that way, it might have been a little bit misunderstood. There is no doubt that we believe that we should wait with the outsourcing of competition. One should focus on what is now happening with regard to remote-controlled towers, and gain experience with it. It was my – and our – intention attached to it. I record that there is a disagreement, that someone will go for a competitive outing of faster ones. Then we should not forget that Avinor has a self-employment today of just 11 pst. – it’s not that they run all the businesses themselves. The second service is what I call critical functions, which are important for an aerodrome to be operational. Everything is to that extent, but what goes on ground duty – fire, rescue and the pieces there – should be looked at. Once a test scheme has been started in Bodø, the experience from it should be evaluated before proceeding. It's the Storting clearly on it. I expect the Council of State will follow up on it as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e855	At the last point, the committee is very clear. But in the case of competitive outsourcing and remote-controlled towers, I just have to stress that there are 15 airports where someone is now working on getting remote-controlled towers. None of them is planned to be among those to be put out for competition. Therefore, there is no reason for one in the places where one is to put out competition to wait for experience from something that is not relevant, namely a technology development in the field of tower management. I heard the representative say – as the committee leader – that the competitive outsourcing of aerodromes with remote towers should not take place. So he's clarifying it a little bit differently now. It would have been very good if the committee in the subsequent debate could clarify whether they believe that a person should wait with competitive outsourcing also of those aerodromes that are not intended for remote-controlled towers, for that waiting period will have no value. I am very concerned that we should not both suspend the operation and introduce new technology at the same time. There'll be too many x- and y-factors that can be risk-managing enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e864	I agree with the Council of State that it is important to have a good short-haul network in Norway, which connects the country, and which allows people to fly out in the morning and home again in the afternoon. This is why it is important to release capacity on the Gardermoen to the places where competitive alternatives, such as the railways, can be found between the major cities of Scandinavia – both Trondheim, Bergen, Stavanger, Stockholm, Gothenburg and Copenhagen – and also to have a rail system that allows you to use Rygge and Torp better than what you are doing today. But it's also important that you have the latest technology on the Gardermo to exploit the two runways we have. As I mentioned in my post, the analogue approach system is about to be out of date, and it's about to enter a new GBAS system. Large investments shall be made both in Norway and internationally. Norwegian actors are also interested in this, and then my question is: Will the Council take the initiative to launch a certification project for the GBAS system on Gardermoen, so that Norwegian actors can also participate in the investments to be made internationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e871	With regard to both technology use on approach systems and in general at airports, our attitude has been that here we have to allow professionals to be professionals. We have to ask a lot of questions, so that we make sure that all the different technologies are best illuminated. We need to be concerned about cost-effectiveness, and we also need to listen to what is said about the risks of the different things, and what are the benefits of the different things. In terms of which system you will eventually choose, and what risk you will have to impose on taxpayers by testing all possible systems, we need to be specific in individual cases. I want to be aware that we are going to spend a lot of money testing out one project only because someone has been in contact with some politician. I am concerned that Avinor should be able to make visible and present all the different technologies that are in place, and that a decision will then be made on the best possible professional basis. In this I am also concerned that we will be involved in developing Norwegian business, but we need to look at what is the best possible overall package.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e876	I thank you for your answer. I noticed a little bit about the questioner – that someone has been in contact with representatives. I would like to stress that this is about a field where there are few actors internationally, and there are great values on which to base. I believe it is important that we are also in the front line, both to put the system in place in Norway in order to make better use of the capacity and to allow Norwegian actors to participate. That's right. I think it is important that wholesalers have contact with Norwegian businesses and Norwegian operators, but also that we can be involved in positioning internationally in a very large industry. However, my question is: Yes, you have to listen to professionals, they are the ones to take the last evaluation, but of course there is also a political initiative that can be taken, and as the Council of State you can ask the right questions. Then the question is again: will the Council of State at all be involved in the question in order to make progress at least as to whether such an assessment should be made?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e883	We've been engaged in the sense that we've discussed the subject with Avinor, and that we're asking the questions. So there I think the answer is yes. Then I just have to apologize if what I said was thought of as a puncture. I have clearly expressed myself a little unexplained – or what word I am going to use – but what I tried to communicate was that it was important that we, as politicians, can participate in and expose and raise many things through questions. But I'm still very concerned that I'm never going, at least not in the foreseeable future, to have the same aeronautical competence that Avinor's people have, so I'm leaving the decisions to them. But we have to take care of taxpayers' money, or in this area actually the air passengers' money, because there is little tax money involved in Avinor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e892	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e900	October 8, 1992, was a great day for Rome and the Inland. Yes, it was a big day for Norway, because then Stortinget made the final decision that the main airport would be built on the Gardermo, after many decades of debate on one of the most difficult political issues in Norway in the post-war period. On 8 October 1998 was also a big day, for exactly six years after the decision, the airport was ready for opening. And Gardermoen has gone very well. It is a modern and good airport, which contributes very well to what I would call the solidarity financing facility we have in aviation in Norway. But it's another dimension at the airport at Gardermoen, and now I'm talking as a representative from Rome and Akershus. The effects of the aerodrome have been very significant in terms of regional impact. It was also the main argument to choose the Gardermo as the location. In Oslo airport at Gardermoen there are 15 000 people working. We take indirect jobs – approx. 10 000 – we are talking about 25 000 jobs. We're talking about new industries and new technology, and that's very good, but there's one thing that never goes off of fashion, and that's that people have to have work. People must have jobs if this society is to work. So the main airport on the Gardermo has been very important for the whole region. I hardly dare think of what the situation would have been for Romerike if the airport had not been built at the Gardermoen. 25 years ago, Stortinget and those who were responsible for this decision were able to put this decision into place after a long period of difficult debate. Then we, who have the responsibility to sit on the Stortinget today, 25 years later, must also be responsible to us consciously. Now we have to make sure that if the aerodrome needs expansion options, the aerodrome has to have expansion options. There is no point in building a third runway just to build a third runway. Probably there are many years ahead, but we don't have to get in the situation that the airport has no expansion options. That's why I think it's absolutely right, what we're now saying, that we're not saying yes or no to the construction of a third runway, but that we're plotting areas, that we're basing ourselves on the professional investigations that underlie, and that the Stortinge says that it's going to be the eastern option. Then we'll come back to the decision itself later.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e909	The Avinor model has served Norwegian aviation and travellers well for many years. The transformation of the Swedish Aviation Agency into a public limited liability company was made in 2003, the last time we had a civil government, and not surprisingly against the voices of both the Workers' Party, the Senter Party and the SV. The Avinor model assumes that the airport structure in Norway shall be self-financing, with charges and commercial revenues approximately equally distributed. In 2016, 8 airports had a positive result and 38 negative results. This holistic approach to the financing of the airport structure, as well as the purchase by the State of non-commercial routes, means that we have an efficient and nationwide airport network that provides the basis for value creation and settlement throughout Norway. After hearing the representative Serigstad Valen, who wants to liquidate the tax-free sale at Norwegian airports, I have to say I am a little surprised. Of the commercial income, sales are actually free of charge approximately. half, and that means there has to be a place between 2 and 3 billion. kr in income from that purpose. Putting it into play would threaten the entire financing model and the entire airport structure in Norway. In addition, it will only mean moving the tax-free sales out of the country, and all bottles of alcohol, chocolate or perfume must be transported back by plane. It can't possibly have any particularly good climate effect. It is important that Oslo Airport can continue to develop as a national hub, but that the aerodrome may also have the potential as an international hub. It is important to maintain the income base not only for Oslo airport but for the whole structure of the Avinor system. Sufficient capacity and attractiveness at Oslo airport Gardermoen is important for the whole of Norway. If we were to end up in a situation of capacity problems, it would affect the income potential of the entire structure. In addition, there is a single calculation for the airlines whether they need to prioritise. Then, of course, they choose the paths that give the best profitability. Lack of capacity at Oslo airport Gardermoen will put us in a situation where we either get a worse offer in large parts of the country, or we need to spend much more money buying routes. That's why I'm a little surprised by the Center Party claiming to have a policy for the whole of Norway, and that's not going to support the further work on a third runway at Gardermoen. I think it's to gamble with the future flight offer. It is important that we set the area for a third runway now, create predictability for surrounding municipalities – and Avinor – and that we have an available area on the day we need the capacity. Now there's a lot that can change until 2030, but at least one thing is certain: if we don't have the space available, we don't have expansion possibilities, and that's not the risk we're willing to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e922	A little follow-up: It is clear that getting to Oslo airport at Gardermoen has been extremely important for the region, Romerike, and it has been extremely important for Oslo, especially because we have a fantastic collective system, which really works, and which is good for the whole country. It's been very important. I still react a little to Sverre Myrli, who points out that jobs are important – also with a third runway. The alternative is to build a competitive rail system between the major cities of Scandinavia. A high-speed rail between the big cities, whether it's Trondheim, Stockholm or Bergen, is expensive to build, but is business-economically profitable to operate. We have to remember that. And it'll give at least as many jobs as the third runway option. There will also be as many workplaces as a third runway in Eastern Europe if one exploits particularly smoke until it can be used. This is a long-term investment – which everyone points out – to set off, because one has to make a decision towards 2030–2035, perhaps 2040. It is then that one today must have a political decision on which main act a person wants to build up the transport system around. I mean, and left thinks, that the most important thing is to build it around the railway where the railway is competitive. It will also have a much greater impact on the areas between major cities. Planes are up - and it's down. It will also offer completely different offers and link a region, which is competitive, anywhere in the world, if you see this in context. Then we have to start that race now, instead of just setting off and in a way let the situation and development slip, and finally make the decision, almost coercive, when one approaches 2030–2035. I believe that this is the most important approach one can also do for the short-haul network, which is very important in Norway, precisely that one gets to use the capacity there also towards a main aerodrome, but that one has a relief where the journeys between the big cities can be taken to a much greater extent on a competitive railway that is both environmentally correct and transportable and economically right for the economic development of our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e933	First to a third runway: when we say yes to the further investigation, it's because we're going to look forward. And the reason why it's not part of the NTP is that one doesn't see that this is an investment that is necessarily to be taken during this 12-year period. And that's also the way that when we say it's relative to plotting the area, it's just as important to free the area, because today we're bonding an actual area on both sides of the Gardermo, i.e., both east and west options. That's why it's right and important that the Storing is clear about what you want in the future. It's okay to be clear that you don't want a third runway, because it's also a clarification of the areas. But it's just as important to be able to decide for one option. That's what I feel that the majority is clear, and you say something about what you want to do before this case ends with a real treatment. So to tax-free and income to Avinor. The main thing about the Avinor model is that the income that comes in is used to operate a good network across our country. There is no doubt that we did not have this model, it is not sure that we had had an equally good offer. In any case, it would have been dependent on the annual appropriations in the State budget and perhaps a discussion that had been less predictable. At least I know very well for my own part of the country that this offer is incredibly important. In many places, there is actually no very alternative offer to travel when you're going to a piece of farm. So for outsourcing and privatisation. There's no doubt that there's a division in this room. We have a government that wants to put out competition and privatize as much as possible. I am very happy that you agree that you should be on the Avinor model. However, there is no doubt that it also undermines the more one puts off competition and possibly facilitates privatisation. At least I am very pleased that what is contained in the programme proposal for the Progress Party has not been taken into account in this communication. That's why I'm a little bit concerned about it. So to the government council that was a little bit in doubt about what the Storting really means. I believe that the comment on page 5 of the Air Safety Service is very clear on what is going on. There is a majority in this Chamber for us to compete with air navigation services, but I also believe that there is a majority in this Chamber to wait for that process to take place until the experience of remote-controlled towers has been completed. At least that is a very clear interpretation on my part.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e944	Only to clarify first with regard to the tax-free scheme: the centre party is not to liquidate it, because it is part of the financing of the short-range network, which is important. But what we've been talking about, along with a number of other parties, is considering using the Vinmonopole as an actor for the sale of alcohol when today's agreement expires. To the representative of the place, who believes that saying no to a third runway is to gamble with the flight offer for District Norway: The centre party believes that it is not right. It's not necessary when we're going to the South or on our trips abroad, that we're going from the Gardermo. For many of us, and certainly for the representative Place too, it would have been equally appropriate to travel from the regional airport closer to where we live. Our point is that all trips abroad do not necessarily have to go from the Gardermoen, but can go from the regional airports around the country. The most important thing for us is to ensure the capacity of domestic traffic to and from the Gardermoen. There are many who in the future also have to travel to and from Oslo on various occasions, and then you have to make sure that you have the capacity to receive the flights that come via other airports or come directly, whether we are talking about Molde, Sogndal, Mo Lake, Mo in Rana, etc. This is not to gamble, but simply to plan a little better than what we think it is done today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e953	I understood the representative Elvesuen so that he thought we didn't need a third runway, because instead we had to bet on the railway. On Monday, we will discuss the national transport plan. Then we also have to discuss railway investment. Four years ago, the Stortinget decided as an ambition that we should have built the completed double tracks on the intercity sections of Lillehammer, Halden and Skien by 2030. Now the government, with Left's support, is going away from, so now on Monday we're adopting a less ambitious plan for the development of intercity sections. And 2030 is essentially an interesting year, because that's when the Stortinget said we should have completed the intercity sections, which we now can't do, and that's when Avinor estimates that it might be necessary – may be needed – for a third runway on the Gardermo. So if we double the railway investments, which is unlikely to be done on Monday, beyond what is in the proposal for NTP, there is no realism in the fact that the railway development in Norway over the next 10, 15 or 20 years can take large shares from aviation. I've been fighting for the railway in all the years I've been in this house, and I'm going to keep doing that, but we also have to be realistic, and we also have to see that we're going to have a great deal of air traffic in Norway in the years to come. And if we succeed in getting more people to drive trains – let's hope – and that the increase in air traffic is slowing down, yes, then there will be a need to build the third runway later than Avinor now estimates. So I'm essentially repeating some of what I said in the first place: we're not going to decide now that we're going to build a third runway some year in time – no, but we're going to have to say that we're going to set aside land. Imagine if we get in the situation that Elvesuen, me and others who work for the railway, fail to get large passenger crossings to the railway, and then the next generation of politicians stand with an airport on the Gardermoen that is embedded, because today's politicians didn't dare to man up to say that we're going to set off land. You know what, President, I don't want to be in on that. The Transport Committee was in London earlier this year and was briefed on the situation at Heathrow, where they have not taken the politically difficult debate. It's built around Heathrow on all sides. Now they have to build a new, third runway, with the result that many people get their houses expropriated and torn. That's not how I want it on the Gardermo. I want us who are sitting on the Stortinget now to be as responsible as the last generation of politicians were, who managed to land the main airfield, and say that we're putting the areas on the east side, because that's what the authorities are saying is the best, and then we'll come back to the expansion issue itself later.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e962	First, a comment to the representative of Elvesuen on the competitiveness of routes. He mentioned in his article in Copenhagen. How in the world will Copenhagen-Oslo become a competitive route for trains versus aircraft? That's not possible. And so is it that most people don't just go from Oslo to Arlanda. Maybe they're going from Oslo to Arlanda and on to Riga. Should you first take the train to Stockholm, then get around: get out to the airport? It goes without saying that this is not an alternative. I'm going to give the representative Elvesuen right in one area, and it's that there are enough single sections that will eventually be competitive with regard to collective services other than aircraft. But today, and also the next few years, we're not there. Then to the representative Juvik. He mentioned in his article privatisation. No, competitive outsourcing is not privatisation. If there is something that undermines Avinor’s ability – and remember that Avinor is fully State owned – to be able to cross-subsidise non-profitable airports, it is precisely to remove the efficiency potential that lies there. I have 30 years as a ground crew at five different airports. There's a lot to pick up in terms of the efficiency potential there. Then to the representative of Sjelmo Nordås. We could probably all want direct flights from our regional airport – very much from Sandane to New York. But it is the market that regulates this. It is the company that chooses to fly where the market is. And that market actually doesn't exist there. So we must not undermine Oslo airport. We need to ensure that Oslo airport grows, so that we secure these connections and even more air connections than we have today. And we're just doing that by facilitating the growth. So here's the thing that Avinor has to have a framework that gives growth opportunities, that gives the ability to bet right. Of course, there is also the third runway, as one of the most important things to succeed in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e979	In the discussion on competitive outsourcing, it is always possible to agree or disagree on whether it makes sense for private operators to participate in and provide their services. But in the discussion that has taken place about the time of the competitive outsourcing set up against the implementation of remote towers at 15 airports, I believe there is reason to ask myself about the comment that the Christian People's Party is in. For the Christian People's Party, it makes sense to launch competition, but they are also involved in a comment where they say that they will await the experience of remote-controlled towers before moving on. The question then is simply: is this comment from the Christian People's Party intended to be limited to those airports that should have remote-controlled towers, or should it be general, of which the Workers' Party has given the impression? It would have been very useful if the Christian People's Party clarified it. I fully agree that where you have to have remote-controlled towers, you should wait with competitive outsourcing. But where you don't want to change the technology, there's no experience from the process of remote-controlled towers. Then you should be able to move on. It's a clarification I should like the Christian People's Party to come along. Another clarification that I hope for – this just to understand, not to discuss – concerns a comment from the committee that Avinor should be able to capitalize on what they are good at, and must be able to sell services abroad. Is it to be perceived by the government as being able to sell consultancy services for the operation of aerodromes, or is it that Avinor should also be able to operate aerodromes? It's a much bigger thing, because then you have to have an organisation and everything that can travel abroad, and not just sell your own experience. It would have been okay if the committee could clarify that. So a little bit about that there's political disagreement about. I hear what the representative from the Central Party says, that you want there to be more foreign routes from other airports than the Gardermo, then you get some of the pressure removed. I think we should remember that with regard to the routes that go, the airlines expect the planes to be pretty full. I think you'll be wrong if you think that District Norway can be served by the fact that people from Sandane should be able to fly to Bergen, Trondheim, Stavanger and Tromsø and get the same flight offer they could get in Oslo. That's why it's completely wrong not to go on looking at a third runway and believing that travelers from Sandane get to meet the needs elsewhere, at the same time, and for that reason don't have to travel to Oslo. So we're going to remember that very many of those who fly from Sandane, not necessarily going out into the world, but going to hit politicians, businesses and other actors in the Oslo region or in the Trondheim region. Then it's in the best interest to fly to Værnes, if the company you're going to meet is there. But many of those who point out that one of the most important things about the FOT route system is to be able to get to Oslo in the morning, won't be able to meet their needs in a few years with the policy of the Center Party. Therefore, it is simply directly hostile to districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e992	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e997	I'll try to be short. First, the cooperation ‘8 million cities’, Oslo–Gøteborg–Malmø–København, if an interreg project shows that it is technically possible to have a railway linking this area within two and a half hours of travel. But there has to be a willingness to implement it. There is something quite different — in cooperation with Norway. But it's possible. Otherwise, it is assumed that there are no capacity problems on the Gardermoen regarding the total number of passengers. It's gonna take $35 million. At Heathrow they're up to 70 million. It's about traffic in the morning and in the afternoon, at the most busy time, and it's domestic traffic that primarily takes that capacity. It is a fact that no one flies more than nordics, and we fly very often distances of 500 km, where the train is competitive. It's clear that we have the opportunity, with as far a perspective as this is about, to build that capacity. Fortunately, in the context of the national transport plan, we have decided to look at distance studies on high-speed rail, which is a new initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1007	I will try to answer what the Council of State challenged, from my point of view as the case-rapporteur. First, what goes on sales of competence. What the message says is that you should not be allowed to do anything. A person must be engaged in the core activity and not be able to take advantage of his or her skills. I realized that we thought it was a clever attitude. As I interpret the Committee on Sales of Competences to Avinor, it is not necessary to engage in economies of scale abroad, but it is desirable to use its competence to assist abroad in the provision of consulting services. I think that's a good clarification. So I feel reasonably secure in the opinion of the committee. As far as air navigation services are concerned, at least the opinion of the case rapporteur – that is the point under the Air Safety Service section, the Christian People's Party must clarify it itself – is that one is in principle in order to compete with the air navigation service, but that one wants to wait for it, as it says here. That's at least my perception of that piece.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1016	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1032	It is an overall committee that agrees that a comprehensive aviation strategy must come about. Some of the Committee's comments also refer to the fact that the Council of State is already preparing for a comprehensive aviation strategy. Furthermore, it has also been noted that this work is a follow-up to the note on globalisation and increased competition in civil aviation. What will happen is that a representative sample will be set up to assist the Ministry in the design of this strategy, and undoubtedly is a central theme in which the importance of having a Norwegian aviation industry. Issues such as the business model of the airlines, the conditions of employees and safety and the environment will be addressed. This is in line with the concern of a unanimous committee. What distinguishes the Committee, on the other hand, may be the time aspect of when such a strategy can be put in place. This is a strategy that you can't just create in the Norwegian Chamber, to say it like that. We are totally dependent on Norway being in dialogue with Europe on international agreements, and that this is possible to back up such a strategy, in order to get the quality up. If only it had been up to Norway, the Department and the political leadership here, I am absolutely convinced that this strategy had already been discussed here with us. But once again, we know that things take time. Not least, things take even longer abroad, and so we're very dependent on this, because Norway is not an island in the ocean. We depend on other countries for this to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1041	There is no doubt that aviation is changing greatly, and there is a lot going on, not least in terms of working conditions and that bit there. That is why we believe it is essential to establish a comprehensive aviation strategy. Yes, we are aware that we cannot do that without assuming that we are part of something larger, as the previous representative said. That doesn't mean that we can't both take a leading role anyway and not least look at what we can do anyway. That's not all that needs to be cleared by others in the relationship. I record that you are satisfied that such a process is in progress, but I also record that you spend a lot of time spending before you aim to get back to Stortinget. That is also our concern. That's why we want to maintain our original proposal that we want such a message. With that, I take up the minority proposal, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1052	The representative of Kjell-Idar Juvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1057	Much has already been said here today about the importance of aviation in a country like Norway, so I leave that very theme. But as a member of the Labour and Social Committee, I am at least equally concerned that we are going to have neat aviation conditions, both in terms of passenger safety and in terms of pay and working conditions for employees – in the air and on the ground. The two relationships are also related to each other to a certain extent. In the proposal for a representative, the Labour Party points to the urgency of taking action to ensure that we continue to have an aviation industry in Norway and in Europe that can compete on equal terms, based on the standards that must apply in a modern working life. The right-wing Party Government still likes to emphasise in its own eyes that it is both forward-looking, capable of action and enforceable. In its follow-up to Action Plan No of the Stoltenberg II Government. 3 against social dumping, from 2013, where the need for increased efforts to secure the working conditions of aviation was addressed, the Minister of Transport has shown neither action nor implementation. It doesn't help to be forward-facing when you don't move your feet at the same time. It's usually going pretty bad. In the proposal for a representative, we point out that almost a year ago, under Arendalsuka, the Council of State promised that he would draw up an aviation strategy. It was well received, among others. by the trade union movement, but also by the employers' side, both of which had called for both strategy and forecasting of aviation in the past year. Early in the fall, the Council of State says that in a short time he will decide what form the further follow-up work will take, but little has happened, and now the ageing period is soon over. I also allow myself to remind the Council of State that, already in his first six months in the Council of State, we had an inter-pelling debate in the Stortinget where the Labour Party asked what initiatives the Council of State would take nationally and internationally to ensure orderly pay and working conditions and a level playing field in aviation. The Council of State then referred to a letter he had sent to the EU Transport Commissioner the day before. During the week before, we had repeatedly called the department to get the notified letter, which was not sent until the Workers' Party pressured by taking the matter up in Stortinget. In January 2014, the Council of State said that he wanted to continue the work the red-green government had started. It's been three and a half years. A little has happened. It's that way that almost can wonder if the Council of State really doesn't think this is so very important. Forgive me if I'm wrong, because if it's incapacitated, let me suggest to the Council of State that SAMAK, the joint organisation of social democratic parties and the trade movement in the Nordic region, in January this year, presented a report with both analysis and good suggestions, which the Council of State can freely avail itself of.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1070	I can only say first what we have already said to the committee that we are going to make this report. We've said we're going to make a strategy. We're going to decrease a sample. So like that, one right here turns into open doors. That the Workers' Party repeatedly tries to give the impression that nothing is happening, in which case it must more reflect that one does not even follow, more than it reflects what is actually happening in the government. When the representative Lise Christoffersen points out that I said early in my reign that we should follow up on the work the Workers' Party had started, it was the so-called globalisation report. When the representative of Christoffersen now gives the impression that one is still waiting, the representative has followed extremely poorly, because that report is therefore presented and has been discussed for quite a long time. If you start a debate here where you're really just trying to blackmail the government, and not even get the report that's been presented, and the subsequent discussion, it's actually a pretty little constructive debate. I really hope we don't run the same round now that we experienced earlier today, where you just discuss. For this sample to be put down, the NOO work to be done, we agree to be done, and the process is in progress. So there's no doubt about it. When the Labour Party then shows that they did not just put forward one strategy, not just two, but three strategies against social dumping, it is more reflective that the strategies did not have much effect when it comes to repeated strategies. The fact that just before you go off, you say that this is something you have to work with, you really have to wonder: do you think that all we've done in three and a half years is too little, when the only thing you could do in eight years was to notify you that you should put forward a strategy, and that you should start working on a report on globalisation in that sector? It didn't take many weeks after we won the election and took the government offices, before this topic was put on the agenda, and where we contacted the EU system, because that's where we have to work if we're going to get international changes in this. We need to talk through IATA and others to make sure that you actually get something that not only limits Norwegian aviation and applies to Norwegian domestic aviation, but that goes on the international flights. Because that is what creates the challenges here: the possibility for a company to have aircraft flying from one country with staff from another country employed by a staffing agency from a third country, which would like to have aircraft registered in a fourth country – and which will thus have many different chairs. It is therefore important to ensure that the supervisory authorities know which rules apply and that we treat the actors as equally as possible, in order to ensure that competition is won by those who operate as efficiently as possible, and not by those who, through an international industry, are able to distinguish between laws and regulations and the possibility to organise themselves. We have started this work. We've been working a lot on it. The challenge is that not all other countries agree with us. Then it just takes a little bit of time. I think the Workers' Party would have realized that, too, if they had spent their time in government for eight years taking up that subject. To me it almost seems as if there was not much time spent. We discuss these issues very much with our neighbouring countries, simply because it is important for us to have safe and orderly relationships, both for those who operate, and for those who work, in the aviation industry. The safety of passengers and employees is of the utmost importance to us, just as we also have the same scale of importance in terms of road traffic, in terms of rail, and in terms of shipping. I don't want to have a debate where you try to give the impression that it's not important. But I'm not going to use that impression against those who criticize me, either, because I think we all agree on this. But the fact that you yourself failed to deliver on this in eight years does not give an argument to give the impression that others have not tried. We're working on it. So we're doing this in this investigation that the Working Party here is asking for. So that's the way we should really be cheering because we're all playing on the same team.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1089	I'm not going to waste time unnecessarily. I've basically got my point – that I think it's too small. I record that once again at the end of its Council of State period – hopefully – the Council of State still refers to eight years with a red-green government and not to four years with its own government. Of course, those who have signed the Globalisation Report, but what was the Workers' Party's intention of the Action Plan against social dumping, where we also promised aviation, was to make concrete proposals on how to combat social dumping. To the Council's orientation, when he says that we came up with an action plan in 2013 first showed that we did not have the power to act on the issue of social dumping itself, and that during our period of government we had not managed to eliminate social dumping, of course, it falls on its own unreasonableness. We presented the first action plan on social dumping in 2006, so came plan No. 2 in 2008, plan No 3 in 2013, plan No 4 in 2014 and plan No. 5 in 2017. All the plans that make up the majority and the government parties today have agreed to vote. The working party has never tried to give the impression that social dumping is something you can remove by means of an action plan. No, it is a work that must be ongoing because we, among other things, Talks about international organised crime in some of those cases, and here there is always a new way: when a thing comes to close one loophole, find a new one, so the fight against social dumping must take place in the sectors that are exposed, continuously. Fafo has carried out an evaluation of our first three action plans and concluded that action plans against social dumping work where there are organised trustees at work. But the work has to go on continuously, and when we hopefully take over the government power for the autumn, we're going to continue that work. And we're never going to say that that work we're now done with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1102	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1118	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1127	Taxi is an important part of the collective provision of society, with geographical coverage across the country. Many different groups benefit and enjoy the availability of transport facilities to places, and sometimes trains and buses do not walk around 24 hours a day throughout the country. There has been a broad deal about this for years, but for the last two to three years there has been more turbulence around the industry, and some seem to want to put this offer into play. I thought the government said it well in the political platform say from Sundvolden in 2013: ‘The policy shall be seen as part of the collective policy and the industry shall have an important social role.’. This I believe all parties can say a few things about, and this is also the basis for the legislation we have in the area today. Many claim that the laws are the most relevant to the taxi owners and others in the industry, but there is much more to society than that – if not enough regulation had been removed a long time ago. So the question is, is there still going to be a taxi anywhere, or just some places sometimes? Should the profession be to live off, or should it be, in the worst case, all its struggle against everyone, with social dumping and a race against the bottom of the industry in terms of profitability and quality? Those engaged in industry and law enforcement claim that supply is out of date, that the market is not working, and that we need more competition and new business models osb. More people in the industry have known themselves as a caste ball for entry and exit in recent times, not least because more politicians and others in public space are talking up an enterprise that competes at entirely its own premises, without complying with the laws and other regulations imposed on taxi industry, and without calculating VAT and paying taxes. This is the background for us in the minority to think that a comprehensive and thorough assessment of the goals that society should have for the dross of its transport policy and the framework conditions to achieve these objectives will now be good. A big message about the taxi industry will also be able to address the technological developments that we have seen, and that we see us coming, and what she will have to say for a future and modern taxi industry. The entire committee states that taxis are an important part of a comprehensive public transport service, with geographical coverage across the country, and a part of the welfare community. The Council of State sees in its letter of reply – and in the majority of its comments – that the processes already under way in the field are sufficient to assess all aspects of future taxi regulation, and that, therefore, a self-declaration of taxi industry is not necessary. It will also be visible to others. on the proposals for amendments to professional transport laws. We don't know how the government will adjust to ESA for the needs tests. The result here will be great results for the taxi service. And if you're going to follow the Shared Economic Selection and remove the rights requirement for passenger transport, it could actually rock by viewing taxis as part of the collective service, and it could rock the entire community mission. The industry is known as a caste ball in an impeccable debate, where many things are mixed together, and where important aspects are forgotten. I think it would make sense now to gather about a big message, so that the discussion could be more factual, more thorough and less ideologies of ideological outbursts than he has. I hope that, in any case, we will stand together on the social mission and the role of the dross in public transport, and that we will be able to find a coherent and prudent policy for all parties. Not least the customers of the city and the building are lit with good terms when it comes to access, prices, insurance, local knowledge and control. I take this up with me the proposal from the Labour Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1156	The representative of Magne Rommetvei has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1161	When the world changes, frameworks and rules need to be modernised as development progresses. There are not many good examples of positive developments in those areas where the industry has not had an incentive for customer-adapted development. The taxi industry has lacked the tools to improve its industry. Public rights regulations prevent centres from putting higher standards of quality and content in the product at the best of consumers. Public regulation of the taxi market has long been mature for revision and modernisation. The legislation is now very fragmented, and the responsibilities are unclear. The Competition Authority concludes that: ‘The day’s regulation of the taxi market does not facilitate effective competition and productivity growth.’ And on the other hand, «Not least technological developments have led to a change in the basis for price regulation in the taxi market.» At the same time, the taxi industry reports a great need for change. We shall not prohibit services in order to protect existing business models, but the Right wants to ensure equal treatment between the different actors. At the same time, the changes need to open up new technologies and facilitate innovation and productivity-enhancing measures. The market economy has become the focus of the debate on the sharing economy. The Divisional Economics Committee proposes to suspend the rights regime for taxis. One of the main concerns is lack of competition in the taxi industry. However, one has to distinguish between the order market, which is the largest part of the taxi business, and what is going on in the street. There is a high level of competition in the order market, not least in the public sector. When you take a cab from a taxi stop, you're given the cab queue. As in most strictly regulated industries, an unregulated market arises on the outside of the system and at the same time entities in a grey zone. Pure acts of piracy are carried out to a large extent and create problems both for security and for the regulated industry. Companies like Uber arise in what is today a grey zone. Transport activities appear to be organised here without payment of service, thus clarifying the formal rules of the law on the payment of transport services. In principle, one has to assume that the conditions are very different between the densely populated urban areas and the rest of the country. In scattered rural areas, public procurement will be the foundation for the provision of a taxi service at all. On the other side of the scale, the Oslo area is located, where there should be spaces for several competing centres. It is a paradox that in Oslo and Akershus, where prices are to be set in a market and where there are several taxi centres, prices are increasing. All nutritionists must be subject to the same laws and regulations. Whether the company is named Oslo Taxi, Bergen Taxi or Uber, there are the same requirements for reporting to the tax authorities and for complying with laws and regulations relating to users' rights and society's requirements for road safety etc. whichever is applicable. The industries that are now being challenged must be given the opportunity to strengthen their position by developing – at the best of their customers. The right believes that we do not need a new notification about the taxi industry. We think we can solve the challenges without it. The condition is that the industry itself also addresses the challenges it faces.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1196	Taxis are an important part of the overall public transport service, with geographical coverage across the country. There are differences – there is no doubt that in Oslo the taxi is perhaps more in search of the customer than the case is in my municipality, where we hardly have a taxi. But the taxi offer you have in District Norway is incredibly important, among other things. for the elderly, schoolchildren, sick and disabled. It is important that we make every effort to ensure the well-being that the taxi contributes to. That's why we in the Center Party think it's necessary to look at the framework conditions that exist. Public regulation of the taxi industry has become an increasingly topical issue, and it is worthwhile to be properly investigated. The rapporteur and several others have mentioned what has taken place, which has become known through the media, with Uber and with pirate taxis – which the taxi industry itself is very concerned about finding solutions to meet. It is seen in the ESA discussion that we need to find a solution, and we see what the Joint Economic Committee's report points to. That's why the Central Party has promoted a proposal for a representative, because we believe it is necessary to discuss and clarify this industry's framework conditions so that we can give the industry predictability and stability so that we still have a taxi industry across the country. Otherwise, I refer to the rapporteur's good report, which set out a number of points very carefully. We believe that everyone is well served that we take such a discussion seriously, so that – as I said – we can ensure predictability of the taxi industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1209	The debate that is going on is, I believe, important. Providing good public transport around the country is one of the ways to ensure that everyone gets to participate in society. Actually, the fact that you can get to places without owning your own car is important. The dross is an important part of public transport. It can give you individual transportation where the big community doesn't see the equivalent of setting up direct bus lines, and there are quite a number of places, after all. In many places you live too far, or we simply have so many individual travel destinations that buses do not meet all needs. The cheese market is very different from place to place. In Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim, Stavanger and other major cities, it is relatively easy to get hold of taxis for what you want, and there is relatively strong competition between the players. Out in the districts, on the other hand, there will be longer between the taxis, and it will take longer before the taxi gets where you are, to drive you to where you are going. Making sure that you have a functioning market, which, after all, offers the best possible offer, and which is able to meet the needs you have for both work and leisure, is also an important part of the offers needed to ensure school transport, either on a fixed basis some places or when a child breaks a foot and is a bit dependent on extra help. Making sure that young and older people get to the doctor and the like is also an important part of the taxi offer. When we have said that at the moment we do not think it makes sense with a big message, it is simply because there are so many things happening, and then it is important that we have good progress. If we first submitted a big message before answering these things, it would not be appropriate. It would mean that we had come back in many processes, and probably you could expect reactions, if it was perceived as breaking the law that we are obliged to do internationally. At the same time, a big message, if it had arrived, would like to be dealt with without actually becoming relevant to the matters that we are going to deal with. So our recommendation is that we currently keep the processes that are in progress with ESA and others to ensure Norwegian interests as best as possible. But when we make any legislative proposals, it will give the Storting a good opportunity to discuss both the whole and the concrete proposals that the government is promoting. Let me just stress that the government's approach is that the aim is to ensure a good taxi offer across the country – and that's what makes it a little challenging. Because we know that in some of the countries that have been heavily liberalised, there has been an even better and cheaper offer in the cities, but we have also experienced that people can no longer live on it as the only profession, and that has made it possible for some places in the districts to have a worse offer. At the same time, we know that in Norway we stand out a little from the fact that a lot of the taxi service in the districts has contracts with, for example, the public and carry out many ordering tasks, which they know ensure a certain amount of income. Modern technology in Norway would not have the consequences that have been seen elsewhere, simply because the taxi market has a different income base at the bottom. Here's a lot of different questions you have to answer. I understand the desire to get a big message, but I believe that at this stage it will actually make us in a worse position to find solutions to the issues that are nearby. But I agree with the desire for discussion, and we are trying to take care of the general interests. We will try to do that when we present any proposals to the Stortinget as we see the results of the processes with, among other things. ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1226	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1231	I understand that processes running in ESA osb., one can't just add aside because the Storting has asked for a big message. What is going on has to go – and things happen fast when it comes to this with dross. But I want to go back a little bit to the debate we had earlier, about Avinor – a good example from the department – a good promissory and good debate about a business that works very well. What I see is that since it has not been just before the taxi industry, and it is also going to apply throughout the country, it would be good to have such a debate here. The question remains: Is it not possible to do both - get away from the things you have to do, but still add a big message, so that we get a comprehensive assessment of it and debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1240	Firstly, I have not caught up that the Labour Party believes that there should be concrete changes in this. It would be interesting if the Workers' Party also came up with some concrete views on what they think it should be done more or less of – what should be changed, and what should be retained – instead of just having an open mind where a show of interest in the subject matter, without having any idea of the content. When it comes to the comparison with Avinor, I think it's quite natural that we have ownership reports about it at regular intervals – after all, it's all big business and government that owns and manages this. We manage the taxpayers' money. On the other hand, the State is not the owner of the taxi industry. That's where we're regulators. That's where we make the law. Then it's the county councils that hand out concessions and the like, and so on, that have the most governance. Therefore, I think the comparison with the Avinor message here is irrelevant. As a regulator and as a legislator, it is important that one occasionally takes a breath in the ground, I agree, but if the Workers' Party believes that any of what is today's law should be changed, it always has a chance – even without a cancellation notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1247	When I drew the parallel to the big business message in Avinor, it was because there's no more than half an hour since we had a good debate here, and the message itself highlights the whole operation. Avinor is a well-functioning part of our transportation across the country. That's what was my parallel to it -- otherwise there's two very different things. The Labour Party also has views on things that could have changed, and we see the challenges this industry faces. There's a lot of reason why we're interested in seeing it a little wider now, especially because we're going to have an offer that's going to apply even in the whole country in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1255	The overall objective – an offer across the country – is a goal we share. I have already explained at least my position and that of the government in this. If the Workers' Party believes that there are things in today's legislation that they want to change, it is still possible to propose concrete changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1260	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1278	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1287	First, I would be allowed to thank the proposers for the initiative of this proposal to extend the storage obligation of IP addresses in order to protect children from abuse. The intent behind is definitely the very best. Thanks also to the Committee and to the Judicial Committee for good cooperation in this matter. Norway is one of the most digitised countries in the world, and is at the tip of the world using Internet-based technology. Online information and services are common to both adults and children. This opens up too many possibilities, unfortunately even for those who don't have noble intentions. The security of each and every one of us is a core task of the state. And crime in the big world, among other things. Terrorism and assault, must be fought down. We see that new technology is challenging, and that it provides an increased potential for damage. In the case currently presented to the Stortinget, the majority have put forward an alternative proposal, asking the government to clarify the legal scope for storing IP addresses and relevant traffic data should be expanded as a necessary tool in the fight against crime. IP addresses and subscriber data can help reveal criminal activity. Data protection today calls for the storage of IP addresses and subscriber information for up to three weeks for billing purposes, but there is no legal requirement for such storage. Demonstrating that the storage of IP addresses will actually have an impact on the fight against serious crime, and what consequences this will have for the privacy of people in general, is absolutely central if one is to legislate it. Since the Data Storage Directive was being processed, the storage of IP addresses was implemented. Later, the directive was, as you know, lifted because several courts considered it too far to impose the retention of sensitive information. One consequence of this is that the statutory storage obligation has not entered into force. The mass storage of personal information is problematic, but the storage of IP addresses is initially not metadata storage. The storage of IP addresses is more in line with the storage of phone numbers. Therefore, this becomes more legal than a technical question. Digital development is fast, and these changes make it necessary to ensure targeted actions at any given time. Since 2001 terrorist attacks have introduced a number of measures that increase the level of monitoring in society and laws and regulations that have reinforced penalties and instruments. In recent times, we have also deployed more resources for operational services, and cyber coordination centres have been established to strengthen potential to address threats in the digital space. Our security requires increased coordination between public security actors, and it is from the government that proposals will be made for a ‘digital border defence’. Today’s use of the Internet brings with it complex problem-solving options, with the need for careful evaluation of the most crime-removal action. There is a need for an approach that both takes care of health and looks at the long-term effects. The security of each and every one of us is, as I said, a core task for the state, and an important part of our security is also to ensure a good balance between the rule of law, privacy and surveillance.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1310	The rapporteur explained very well what traffic data is and what data traffic is. I'm probably not the only one who uses these two terms a little bit in the cabin and the pain, but in this case there's a significant difference between the two, and that's very important. Technology, new methods, the debate on data storage in 2011 – that debate is actually almost the Stone Age. Now we have to look at the whole thing and take over the changes that are going faster and faster. The challenge is to find the right level between the need for information to prevent crime and the need for privacy. Finding the right level is demanding for all batches. When this case was promoted by the Christian People's Party, we in the Advance Party were very positive to the original proposal that the Christian People's Party promoted. But then something strange happened after the committee was dealt with this, because the Christian People's Party drew up its proposal and promoted a new one with a completely different content. That's nice. I expect the representative of the Christian People's Party who sits in the Chamber, who will speak on the matter, to explain why they turned around and drew up their proposal. So in the case we're dealing with now, it's only about IP addresses. The Data Protection Authority stated in the consultation response in the context of the debate on data storage which took place in 2011 that, in the case of IP addresses, they were willing to assess storage obligations. I think that's what we're going to debate and discuss now. Bjørn Erik Thon said the following to the Evening Post: ‘There is a difference between identifying who is behind an IP address and having a complete survey of who is talking to who, when and where the individual citizen is physically located at all times.’ It's absolutely essential. That is why, in the Progress Party, we want to meet this need for a flexible approach, because right now, while debating this matter, serious crime and child abuse are being committed. Traces are left, but they will be deleted before the police may be seized in the PC. They're getting away again. And tomorrow it's on him again – new kids, new assaults. That is why the Progress Party will meet the need and make a proposal that we want to store IP addresses for at least six months, with a flexible approach. That is why I am addressing the proposal of the Progress Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1330	The representative Åse Michaelsen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1335	Technological developments have been enormous in a few years, and the Internet has become a good thing that we absolutely need to protect. Different considerations need to be discussed and carefully considered before we, as legislators, choose to interfere with the freedom of individuals on the Internet. But the Internet also has dark sides, and for example. What we are discussing today, sexual abuse against children online, has unfortunately considerably increased, on both the open web and the dark web. As legislators, we have a very great responsibility to ensure measures that protect our children as best we can. That's why it's been important for the Christian People's Party to strengthen the budgets of both the police and Kripos, who are working on this. Among other things, in the current year's budget, there was an increase of 30 million. kr to Kripos, there at least 25 million. NOK of the money was directly connected to this. Operation «Dark Room» in the West Police District in the autumn of 2016 shook us all. The extent and degree of gravity of what the police have revealed is completely incomprehensible. Unfortunately, this case is not a unique individual case. According to the head of the Oslo Police District section for sexual offences, Kari-Janne Lid, only the top of the iceberg is revealed. We therefore need to intensify efforts to prevent, detect and investigate sexual abuse against children online to a greater extent than we do today. Extended storage time of IP addresses is the measure that the police are asking for to the greatest extent. I note that the majority of the transport committee knows that the police have called for an extension of the storage obligation for IP addresses, because it could strengthen the police's ability to fight serious crime, as the proposal is based on. However, all parties, other than the Christian People's Party and, to the extent also the Advance Party, do not choose to support the proposal of the Christian People's Party to ensure a storage time of IP addresses for up to six months. The representative Michaelsen says they want more than six months. The important thing for the Christian People's Party has been six months, as the police have said will be sufficient, and we promoted that proposal for hopefully bringing us the Right Party or the Workers' Party on it. It is important to be careful and sober in these matters. Different considerations need to be weighed against each other in order to ensure a proper balance between privacy considerations and the need for resolution of serious crime. It is important that storage is not disproportionate and that the duration of storage is sound. In addition, it is necessary to assess the severity of the offences likely to be remedied or resolved through storage and the likelihood that serious crimes against innocent people may be averted or resolved. The Christian People's Party opposed the implementation of the Data Storage Directive – something to the right and the Workers' Party was not – precisely because it would result in disproportionate interference with individual privacy. The proposal we are now promoting is something quite different and far from being as radical as the Data Storage Directive would be. The Data Storage Directive required providers of electronic communications to store all data traffic for a period not less than six months and up to 24 months. The directive on the storage of data traffic in general involves the storage of much more extensive information on the communication and movement of persons than only the storage of subscriber information on IP addresses. It involves information on electronic communications, on the use of subscribers, inter alia: the telephones that have been in contact with each other by SMS or by telephone, the duration of the call, the location data for communication equipment and the use of IP addresses. This was also illustrated by the Data Protection Authority in the context of the Stortinges processing of the Data Storage Directive in 2011, where they supported the storage obligation for subscriber information related to IP addresses, even though the Data Protection Authority was opposed to the other parts of the Data Storage Directive. The representative Michaelsen also quoted the Director of the Data Protection Agency, Thon, who pointed out that there was a significant difference between this and DLD. Therefore, the arguments against the Data Storage Directive cannot be fully used against the proposal that we are discussing today. Subscription information related to IP addresses is comparable to a telephone number. It does not reveal any content and only allows for the identification of which subscriptions are made to the individual address for which period of time. However, this information may be crucial in situations where the police become familiar with pictures or videos of child abuse, shared online, and which give reason to fear that children in the material are being subjected to ongoing abuse. Then the storage of IP addresses can allow the police to search for victims, possible perpetrators and perpetrators. Data protection currently accepts the storage of IP addresses and subscription information for up to three weeks for billing purposes. But it has turned out that this is too short a deadline for the police to investigate serious net crime. In particular, international cases make it difficult to reach it within three weeks. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that it is time to give the police the tools they are asking for, so that we can better protect our kids. I take up the proposal we have made in the vote, and I warn you that we are going to vote subsidiaryly for II.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1356	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1361	There are few proposals in the UK that are better justified than proposals aimed at combating child abuse and the dissemination and production of child abuse images. There must also be a background for this debate, that all measures that are practicable and that do not conflict with fundamental principles of the rule of law should be discussed in order to combat child abuse and abuse images and films. But then it's important to have your tongue right in your mouth. I thought it was a bit illustrative that the representative Åse Michaelsen first – quite correctly – referred to the debate on the Data Storage Directive in 2011 as the Stone Age, digitally speaking it is. But then in the next sentence she just argued for her view with a quote from that debate in 2011. I would warn against a notion that an IP address is just an IP address. The representative, Mr Ropstad, is quite right in saying that this is a significantly less invasive instrument than the introduction of the Data Storage Directive would result. But at the same time, Internet use has also changed radically in recent years. An IP address is not just an IP address. An IP address is what can identify who you are in all uses of all kinds of Internet services. Given that the vast majority of people are gradually walking around with a smartphone, there's a lot of information. You have to do this, for example. Asking what practical function storage will have, when we aim to combat, is crime of a kind that is so serious that there is reason to assume that the vast majority of those who can use so-called proxy and other methods of constantly switching IP addresses. This would have been interesting to know more about before we will finally make a decision in the matter. The next dilemma is: to what extent should we press for IP addresses to be locked to the identity of each of us on the Internet to a greater extent than today? It may, and I say, because this is speculation, lead to the opposite outcome of what was intended, namely that it will be easier for people with bad intentions, whether within this type of crime or other type of crime, to obtain information about other people's network usage for criminal purposes. In this case, it will provide greater opportunities for intrusion into the use of the Internet by individuals, including children, for some people to store this information. Do you want to save it safely? Does the Storting believe it is safe enough if that information is stored by the telecommunications operators themselves – at a time of significant security leakages even from some of the safest government institutions in the world? What happens if a potential overlaps with things to access the IP addresses of a child’s mobile phone – with a background in that type of theft or leakage – as a result of the fact that we, as politicians, have pressed for an IP address to be an IP address, and that it should be stored over a long period of time, so that it is easier to identify who is behind the IP address and what the network use is all about? These are questions we need to ask ourselves carefully before we take action that can be an improper intervention in the legal certainty of each individual in Norway. There is no underestimation of the severity of this field. There are many other things that are also needed to strengthen the fight against child abuse and the dissemination of images and films. I think to a large extent it's a resource question. I could think of a clearer answer to that. Is it such that the police themselves believe that they have the resources and competences needed to do a good enough job? We have legislation that is strict enough in completely different areas, such as: in consumer law? I ask because there are not so many weeks since we heard news at NRK about toys that are in free circulation in Norway – and prohibited in other countries – where it is possible for almost anyone to connect, i.e. talking dolls and toys with any Bluetooth connection. I don't have to elaborate on what kind of potential it brings to those who must have evil intentions. Therefore, instead of voting against the proposal with reference to previous debates on the data storage directive or with general references to legal certainty, we want a more thorough debate. That is why we want to make two proposals. One is to investigate which measures will be most effective in combating child abuse and abuse images spread over the Internet, including both competence and resource issues and the storage of IP addresses. The second is to appoint a Data Protection Commission that can assess challenges to privacy elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1380	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1385	In a sense, it is understandable that the parties that were in favour of the Data Storage Directive in their time are not opposed to the proposal that the Christian People's Party has made, because the Data Storage Directive showed us how far the majority in this Chamber is willing to go to monitor its own citizens. At the same time, I would like to stress most strongly that what we are talking about today is not the same as the Data Storage Directive, but it involves monitoring our own citizens. Some of the challenges — or the problem — of these matters are that they do not appear to be so very serious or so serious, in themselves, or as major interventions, but when all the way through they take the small steps, they constitute, in total, a rather significant intervention in the privacy of people. And it's like the previous speaker said, that it's rare there's so good consideration behind a case as when it's about monitoring. That's always good consideration, it's always good intentions, that's behind it. The left does not depend on increasing the storage time from 21 days to 6 months, but the left is also concerned about the legal certainty of children. We are also concerned about children's privacy, and we believe that this is about something even further – it's about online registration, it's about online storage, and it's about sharing sensitive information about and pictures of children – which we think is important to keep in focus. At the same time, we would warn against thinking that increasing the storage time from 21 days to 6 months will solve the problem. Many times it appears that we can take a simple step as politicians – we can only assume that the information is stored a little longer. And then you feel like you're acting, because then you've kind of done what you can do. But storage itself won't solve this, because this is about many more things as well. It's about how many police officers we have working on this. If the problem is that they're late for the investigation – are they too late for the ball, the ones working on this? It's about the competence that those who work on this have. This is a problem that is much more complex than that we can solve by expanding the storage time. I think the one proposal that Mr SV has put forward, proposal No. 3 is very good. There, the government is asking the government to find out what kind of action will be most effective in combating child abuse and abuse. And they're asking for an assessment of the experience of storing IP addresses for three weeks, i.e. today's system. Through that proposal, we're looking at a larger whole. Then we're looking at what's the most effective, so the answer won't be the simple answer, what's easy to do, but what's actually needed to fight this type of crime. As regards proposal No: 4, from SV, which is about a data protection commission, there is something that the Left fully supports. In the past, we have also suggested that a data protection commission be created. It's about children, but it's also about our privacy in general, because we know it's all the way under pressure. Fortunately, I would say, the Data Storage Directive was stopped, precisely because it was too intrusive against the individual citizen. We are all involved in privacy attacks, both from private actors whom we voluntarily enter, either with open or closed eyes, and from the state when we, as politicians, decide to extend the police's methods and powers. The left does not support the proposal for an extended storage period, but we want to support SV's solution in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1403	The police have for several years called for an extension of storage time for IP addresses. I agree that such an action will strengthen the police's ability to combat child abuse, and it is important that the police have sufficient means to combat this type of very serious crime. In addition, extended storage time will also strengthen us in the fight against terrorism. The legal space for general data storage is, as you know, limited. In the so-called TV 2 case, the European Court of Justice has held that the general storage of complete traffic and location data was contrary to the EU Charter for the Protection of Privacy. I underline complete traffic and location data. However, I believe, in the same way as the proposers, that it should be assessed whether, within our international obligations, it is possible to impose requirements for the storage of IP addresses for a longer period of time than we are doing today. IP addresses only provide information about which subscriber is connected to a specific IP address, so they do not provide information about content or search history. Therefore, the storage of IP addresses is much less extensive than the storage provided by the Data Storage Directive. I have therefore already decided that a system of storing IP addresses should be further explored to meet the needs of the police for longer storage periods. Work is in progress. A thorough investigation is important to ensure that any legislation will be within the framework of our international obligations and that privacy considerations are respected. So it's like this that when I travel around and visit the police districts, I always try to visit those who work with child abuse, and I perceive a very unison feedback from the police, for example with regard to the operation 'Dark Room', that one of the most important tools they need to be able to strengthen the fight against this cruel form of crime is the storage of IP addresses, and that it's longer than today's maximum time, in fact, in 21 days – you're not even required to store it for 21 days. Just to illustrate the problem: Kripos is receiving enquiries from abroad almost weekly through international police work, where Norwegian IP addresses are sent to people, residents, in Norway, who have been linked to international crime dealing with child abuse. Often this type of enquiry takes time, and experience is about one month from these IP addresses are recorded, e.g. in Canada or Germany, until Kripos receives that information. Then these IP addresses are deleted. That means that every month, Kripos gets clear indications of the Nordics who have been involved in this kind of abominable crime, but you're standing without an opportunity to find out who they are, and maybe stop ongoing assault. When one then at the same time assumes how small the intrusive storage of IP addresses actually is, it is certainly not difficult for me to get on the point that we have to increase the storage time. But of course it has to be investigated, it has to be done within the agreements and international rules on which Norway is bound. I meet what is likely to be the conclusion after today's debate, and as I said, I have already started the investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1416	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1421	In several cases, the Progress Party has co-existed with the Left in the fight for privacy. The Council of State now said in its statement up to several times that it was important to ask the question. At the same time, I see in the proposal tabled by the Progress Party that it says: ‘The Government is asked to make proposals to the Storting to ensure that Internet service providers store subscription information and IP addresses for at least six months.’ So there's no assessment inside the picture. There's no investigation inside that picture. It may be that the Council of State will investigate it, but does he not see any concern in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party, where they describe that the Council of State will come right back to the Stortinget? And even if the Council of State has a preliminary investigation, the conclusion is clear in the proposal of the Progress Party. Should an investigation then just be an empty thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1431	I find it a little difficult to imagine the problem in the representative. It is therefore quite common for the Grand Duchy to decide, by means of a request decision, that the government should implement different measures, promote different legislative changes, bring new issues back to the Grand Duchy. It's very common practice. So in all those cases, to the extent that it is necessary – and that is usually the case – we will carry out investigations. This is problematic in terms of international agreements Norway is bound by. Then it is quite natural, if one had adopted the original formulation promoted by the Christian People's Party or by the Advance Party to this matter, that one had done the same thing and carried out an investigation. What you're thinking about now is that we have to go back to Stortinget before we possibly promote such a bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1438	I thank you for the answer and only want a follow-up. When the Council of State makes that assessment, and if that assessment is to show that it would not be reasonable or appropriate to have a minimum period of storage of six months, which is the proposal of the Party of Progress, does that mean that the Council of State will come back to the Storting with anything other than that proposed by the Party of Advances, i.e. with a proposal that proposes a storage period of less than six months, if that is what the assessment will show?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1445	This type of legislative change will always be anchored where it is natural to implement the anchoring. It will clearly be relatively unnatural for the government to promote a bill that requires us to break international conventions. I would hardly have any particular expectation of going through this room. This is a decent, real job. We have competent lawyers in the Ministry of Justice and Defence, who are able to handle this investigation – perhaps the foremost competence we have in Norway in the very field of tension between Norwegian legislation and international conventions. It's a problem that we have to do, of course, in a proper and proper way. And then, in the light of the conclusions drawn as a result of those investigations, we'll see how we're going to deal with it further. But I have no reason to doubt the intention of the proposers, and it is not unnatural for the Storting to give marshalls to the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1452	Once again I thank you for the answer. The background to the proposal that the Christian People's Party has presented to the Storting is serious crime against children in particular, and we can all agree that this is something we want to defeat. The fight against this type of crime is something we want to strengthen, and especially with regard to children, because they have no opportunity to care for their own interests. They can't stand up to themselves, as adults can. Then it is also important that we, as politicians, take care of it. One thing is this with storing IP addresses, but it alone does not solve this issue. I think the Council of State agrees with me on that. What other measures will the Council of State take to strengthen the response to this type of crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1461	It is important for me to stress that the Progress Party is also very concerned that we should have real privacy and that it is well maintained. At the point of tension between security and privacy there will always be a debate. I lay the groundwork for what the police tell me when I travel around and visit them. They're the ones who work on these kinds of things -- assaulting children online and the extension of it in the physical world. They tell me that this is one and only the most remote tool they need in their toolbox. I think we should listen to the police. When people who work with this on a daily basis say that child offenders go free because they are unable to provide this information, I believe there is reason to listen to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1466	I want to thank the Council of State for a good contribution and for an important commitment, which we fully share, but I think it's being taken a little too easy on it. I'm glad that the Council of States stresses the reasons that need to be balanced against each other here, we fully agree with that, but I don't think there are anyone in this room like that. would suggest that you have mobile phones with cash cards, where you cannot register contact or subscription info, or would accept that car owners could drive around without a name attached to who had the car. It is simple, because it was used when it was a cash card that was not attached to the person. This with an IP address is of course going further, I understand that too, but it is comparable. That's why I'm glad that the Council of State has already launched an investigation, and I think that, as he says, this will be one of the most important measures to expose more serious crime. But can he say anything more about when the investigation will be completed, and when could there possibly come a case to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1473	I can't give a date, but what I can promise the representative, is that there will be a high priority here. This is a matter of high priority from the Department, which we shall be able to identify as quickly as possible and properly as possible and to provide an answer to any conflict with international conventions. It is important to stress that this is something quite different from the Data Storage Directive, which the representative was also involved in his post. This is about storing IP addresses, so it's not about saving metadata, saving search history, saving your online activity. And this is, as the representative also refers to, relatively parallel to the type of cash card for telephone. There's actually a reason it's no longer in use. It was used very much by criminals. The signage of cars is also an interesting comparison, and one can also compare it with the telephone number and that it is linked to a person or an address.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1480	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1486	I take the floor more for a small explanation of vote. I agree that the case has a very serious background, but there is no thorough investigation on the various options we are actually facing. The centre party has placed its primary positions in the case and has chosen to look at a possible investigation. Now there are two proposals from SV, which the Centre Party is ready to support. We are going to vote against proposals No. 1 and 2, which is in the case. We are going to vote in favour of the proposal No. 3 and 4. And then we're going to subsidiaryly support I, which is in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1493	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1498	Now I have had the floor, so I really want to comment on what has emerged in the debate. The representative Nybø takes this up with the government council with investigation/not investigation. There we should be aware that the proposal that the Progress Party here is promoting was originally promoted by the Christian People's Party. As you can see in Document 8:126 and in the setting for us, Innst. 407 S, it is the proposal that we promote, which the Christian People's Party originally promoted. That's what I asked for in the place – I want to know what happened in the Christian People's Party, when they don't hold up their own proposal as it was initially. The representative of Nybø was also within why the Progress Party is promoting a proposal that says ‘at least six months’. It is a national decision of the Progress Party, I am a representative of the Progress Party, and of course I am promoting proposals that are in line with our policy. But the Council of State represents a government, and it's a difference of substance. I thought maybe the representative Nybø knew that there was a difference. Furthermore, one also sees that the Progress Party, both in the form of a note and in the proposal for an I, supports the investigation that needs to be carried out, in particular with regard to relevant traffic data, whether or not it should be extended, and it is clear that it supports us. For us, the important thing is to make this work, and the wish of the police in this area is that this has to be done. At least six months must be in place, and the police want two years, so why not? Then I have great confidence that the Council of State will come back to the harvest, when the Council of State is once again the Council of State, with clear indications of where we land, how many months, and what is relevant. It is important for us in the Progress Party that we are flexible and that we have a law that is adapted to the need that is out there. We ourselves know how long a change in the law takes in this congregation. As technology evolves, we can't keep up with it, we can't create a law that's adapted to the challenges of society today in this area. Ergo we have to be a little flexible, and I'll think, with a good heart, that we're all here in the hall agreeing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1511	We in the Right are quite a few in that one has to look at all the good measures to combat serious crime, especially child abuse. But from our point of view, such urgent treatment – let me just call it that – is made by such a serious matter as this, through a Document 8 proposal that concludes with one solution, a wrong approach. The majority point out that there are many different issues that need to be addressed in order to counter crime in their health. Not least, these actions need to be targeted. It also applies to the highest degree of measures related to IP addresses. We believe that an outsourcing will be important to ensure that any change in the law will be within the framework of the international obligations of Norway, and that one also takes care of privacy. We show in the notes that today's use of the Internet means that users' behaviour on the web is usually always traced in some form. However, we also know that developments from the directive were being discussed and until today have shown that more and more users are actually hiding the IP address for quite legitimate reasons, but also for other reasons. This is challenging. I am very pleased to point out to the right council that the work is already in progress. That's a promise. One sees the seriousness of the situation, and looks at the possibilities that actually exist to find what is the good approach and the targeted measures. It is important that we get the necessary tools in place in the fight against all crime. When IP addresses are involved, it will not be possible to distinguish between what is attached to child abuse and what is associated with other relevant crime. As I said, I am pleased to hear that the work is in progress, and I expect that further work will also address good assessments of targeted actions, which take care of both health, long-term effects and privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1526	I will not withdraw the debate – just give a brief reply to the rapporteur, who is using the concept of urgent procedure, perhaps in the presence of the goose. This is a proposal which has been discussed for a long, long time and which the representative's own party voted on more extensively through the processing of the Data Storage Directive than is currently being processed. Therefore, I would just like to stress that on the part of the Christian People's Party, there has been a process, because we were and are persistent opponents of the Data Storage Directive. It meant a massive surveillance of the inhabitants that I don't think would have the effect that the followers argued for. But when this proposal was up in 2011, the representative Serigstad Valen pointed out that there was a lot of water that is clean in the sea since then, the Director of the Data Protection Agency even pointed out that this was something politicians could do if they were to fight online abuse. The reason why this kind of crime is brought out by us who are proposers is that it has exploded. There are so many cases of this. It is true, as it is said, that there are several other types of international crime, terror and other types for which this will also be of great help, but especially for these kinds of cases. So that's why it's important for me to stress that for us this is a completely different issue than the Data Storage Directive. This will only give you an opportunity to see who was in that chat and actually made contact there, or ordered an assault there, or downloaded those kinds of images. It will be the tracks we need to be able to take the attackers, and quite often also stop the attack that is going on – this is just an explanation. I would like to commend the Committee on the fact that at least it is on the agenda of an investigation that the Council of State is now confirming, because it is at least important that this work be continued. Then I look forward to the treatment, hopefully, here in the Storting when it's finished. To the representative Michaelsen: I tried to answer in my main post also why the Christian People's Party has gone away from «minimum six months» to the proposal now to go in for «up to six months». It's because we've seen through the treatment that there was greater resistance than what I thought it was. I might have thought that especially the Workers' Party and the Right would support it. When the police say that there are six months that are the most important, they include ‘up to six months’ in the first place. That is what we proposed. But if the treatment and investigation show something else, of course, we agree to take that discussion further.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1539	The representative Åse Michaelsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1544	There has been a good deal of work on this earlier. In my time in the Justice Committee, from 2009 to 2013, this was a theme every year – we looked at this. Of course, technology is developing, but it has also done that precisely this with IP addresses is actually as harmless in terms of privacy now as it was before, as the technology might not have gotten that far. I also have the impression that very many of those who take the word have not fully followed what is happening out there. That's why it's important, actually, to be in the forefront and land this. So to the explanation of vote: the Progress Party will support the proposal of a subsidiary Christian People's Party for up to six months of storage if our proposal for at least six months of storage falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1553	I also have no desire to extend the debate, but when the last speaker accuses people who have spoken in the debate, not to go completely along with it, I think it has to refute here from the pulpit. We definitely follow, we also have a commitment to these things, we just don't quite agree, and that's probably a little bit of a reason why we belong to different parties. We have something in common: we share the commitment for children. We all want children to be cared for, to protect children, to defeat this crime. But we're making a different assessment of privacy. It's not like we, who are defenders of privacy, don't follow. We have also participated in these debates in all the years that have gone by – we just mean different things. I note that the last speaker speaks down the assessment that the Minister of Justice spoke up. I fully agree with the Minister of Justice that assessment is important and an assessment must be real. So I want to add once again, there are many other things that also have to do to fight this type of crime. We can't just look at storage time on IP addresses. Combating this type of crime requires policemen, it requires a willingness to give priority to this type of crime, and not least requires the competence of the police to look at these issues. That's exactly why the Left will support the SV's proposal, because then you'll see a larger whole, and we'll have experience with the storage time that is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1560	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1576	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1585	A growing period goes to the end, and a lot has happened since the fall of 2013. At that time we hardly knew enough about ISIL, and it was not very likely that European countries violated each other’s borders with invasion and annihilation. I guess no one had thought President Trump was going to win the election in the United States, and Brexit appeared to be distant and unlikely. So we've been through a period of pretty big conversions in a short time. Today, there is also a basis for thanking you, and I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Foreign Minister personally for the cooperation in a changeable time. And thank you to the entire committee for the cooperation we have had on Norwegian foreign policy in the four years that have gone by. In debates like this one today, it is rare to conclude that there is broad consensus on the broad lines of Norwegian foreign and security policy. We have tradition of continuity and consistency. Norway shall be able to rely on, across changing governments. We often say that Norwegian foreign policy is firm. It shouldn't. When the world changes, we must be prepared to change, also politically. It has been eight years since the last time the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy were addressed in a wholesale communication. St.meld. No 15 for 2008-2009, Interests, responsibilities and opportunities, were presented in spring 2009. The Communication of Interest, and the previous work on the basis of a comprehensive public discussion, report and book publishing on Norwegian foreign policy, were thematically broader than the present message, with its clear emphasis on security policy. Professor Iver Neumann, one of our leading foreign policy experts, has pointed out how the 2009 notification of interest constituted a distinction in Norwegian foreign policy thinking by relaunching the concept of interest in Norwegian foreign policy, unlike a more traditional emphasis on identity. It is important to note, then, that a unanimous committee expresses its view that the conclusions of the Communication in 2009 are still valid, including in the context of a changed security policy situation. One should perhaps be careful about using metaphors from the missing time of the paper lexicons, but the present message appears to be a complement to the 2009 message of interest – a security policy supplementation. Since 2009, significant changes in the field of security policy have obviously occurred. In our own neighbourhoods, the agreement with Russia on the sharing line in the Barents Sea in 2010 constituted a milestone – in a positive sense – in Norwegian foreign policy history. At the same time, Russia’s Crimea Inspection from 2014 and the destabilisation of eastern Ukraine in a negative sense constitute the most serious challenge to the security policy order in Europe after the end of the Cold War. Our neighbourhood to Russia must be based on cooperation and dialogue, firmness and predictability. We must join our allies and European partners in the meeting of violations of international law. But in a neighborhood or a branch, you have to have a good relationship with and open communication with all of your neighbors, and the most important neighborhood relationship is with those you share fences with. Russia is not just a country in our neighbourhood; Russia is our neighbor. We share borders, and not least we have an unconditionally negotiated frontier at sea. Norway has interests in maintaining contact with Russia, including in difficult times. The ban on foreign policy debate should be taken care of, and I am probably not the first to dwell on the concept of 'road elections'. But through this message the terms "options" or "to choose" are, in practice, only found in the reference to the title of the message, not in the contents. At the same time, the term ‘recurrent’ occurs 32 times, ‘continuing’ 41 times, and ‘strength’ not less than 92 times. Nevertheless, road choices may also be made by continuing and ending. For example, the Professor Neumann mentioned here. called for the closure of Barents' cooperation, as it has become rhetorical swada. I disagree. It is in Norway’s long-term interests to fend for cooperation in the north, laboriously built up and an important contribution to the low voltage in the north. I referred to the message as a security policy supplement. Another suitable metaphor may be the ‘Live message’, for the message provides a concise and concise description of the changes in the security policy landscape. This may also be the reason for the absence of fundamental disagreements in the Committee's position. It's not very controversial to agree on what the loop conditions look like. The message is also succinctly concise and concise, but the list is quickly long over the themes and angles you would like to see more thoroughly illuminated and processed. China is one example. The Committee has been particularly concerned with raising the importance of China’s growth and probably the most important geopolitical shift in our time. China's significance is nothing new. China has been the world's largest economy in 18 of the last 20 centuries. Today, however, China is also becoming an increasingly important player in almost all areas of foreign policy and security policy of importance to Norway. In assessing Norway’s role in the world, it is possible to go into the ditch on both sides. Our importance can be overestimated, and it can be underestimated. I would warn you here against the latter conclusion of error, to underestimate our foreign policy significance. We are not a small country either. Take our economy: Of almost 200 countries in the world, Norwegian economy is in 25th place. Our contributions to the UN, including in absolute terms, make us a great force. We're not a spectator to the world either. We are an important player, for example. When we go ahead and engage in dialogue with groups that other countries are not talking to – such as the Myanmar military junta, the FARC GSR movement in Colombia and the moderate forces in the Afghan Taliban. Norwegian peace diplomacy is an important and proper priority. Let it also be said that a Norwegian role in peace and reconciliation is fully possible to combine with being a strong ally, that we are participating and doing our – also military – to combat terrorism and the causes of terrorism. Unpredictability has become indicative of the time we live in. Then it is also timely to conclude here with a reminder that the course of world history does not take account of the negotiating pace of Norwegian wholesale communications. On 11 August 1989, Minister for Foreign Affairs Thorvald Stoltenberg presented a wide-ranging report on developments in the international community and the impact it would have on Norwegian foreign policy. For three months later, on November 9, 1989, the Berlin Wall fell. But here there is also a lesson for Norwegian foreign policy in 2017. It is precisely in changing times that new opportunities and scope for important initiatives are opening up, such as: when, in the early 1990s, Minister of Foreign Affairs Thorvald Stoltenberg took the initiative to establish this Barents cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1619	Let me begin by joining in the committee chairman's mention of the work of the committee during this period, and then it is also natural from this pulpit to thank the committee chairman, Huitfeldt, for the management of the committee during the period. It is important to pursue the consensus policy that has given us sustainability in Norwegian foreign policy over very many years, even under changing governments. The policy message is an important and timely message, which I would like to welcome. The values underpinning our foreign and security policy are firm, but the world is changing rapidly. The climate of security policy has changed markedly in recent years, and the world is more unpredictable. We must therefore take on board the fundamental changes that are taking place, with international unrest and deep crises in the Middle East and North and West Africa. We question the standards and the liberal world order we built after World War II. The Roadmap Communication discusses how Norwegian foreign policy will meet these challenges. We need to have a strategy to build the choices we make under Norwegian interests and Norwegian security, and we need to make clear choices. The key message is that Europe's southern neighbourhoods are in crisis. The rules of international law, which have served Norway, are under pressure and European cooperation is under test. In parallel with these challenges, we see shifts of power in a world that is becoming ever more densely woven together. In the background are common challenges with significant inherent potential for conflict, such as climate change and resource scarcity. There are many positive developments and success stories around the world. The number of poor people in the world has fallen dramatically in the last 25 years. Nevertheless, the recent turbulence and acute crises have given a sense of increased vulnerability. Three factors characterise the situation in the world today: increased complexity, unforeseeableness and transparency. We need to be able to deal with these factors. Russia’s annexation of Crimea in the spring of 2014 and the destabilisation of eastern Ukraine changed the security policy landscape in Europe. Europe is united in its support of the responses to the Russian violations of international law against Ukraine. Norway has concluded on EU restrictive measures by introducing its own equivalent measures. However, for Norway, it is important both to safeguard its own interests in the practical cooperation with Russia and, at the same time, to stand firm on international law and to defend important principles of international relations. The Roadmap Communication highlights the need to further develop cooperation with Russia based on common interests and a firm, predictable policy. The tension between Russia and the rest of Europe is taking place in the Western Balkans, where we are seeing a worrying development. The emergence of terrorism and violent extremism is a serious development. ISIL, the worst terrorist organization in our time, has been controlled in a large geographical area, and we have seen the influx of foreign fighters and a influx from Europe to fight for these terrorist wars. It's a pleasure to see that they're now on a partly waving front. Norway maintains significant civil and military contributions to the anti-ISIL coalition, and as a result of this and the coalition's efforts, ISIL is severely weakened in Iraq and Syria. The number of African countries and victims affected by terrorist attacks has increased significantly over time. Groups of soluble Al Qaida and ISIL have found support in North Africa and in the belt from Sahel to the Horn of Africa. In 2015, 9 African countries were on the list of the 20 countries in the world most affected by terrorism. Boko Haram was the same year the world's second most deadly terrorist group after ISIL. The terrorist groups in the region are also threatening the south of the Sahara and Europe. The challenges in Africa and the Sahel Belt, the Levant and the Maghreb, with vulnerable countries at risk of collapse, will affect us in Norway and Europe. It is therefore important that the government will increase its efforts in Europe's unstable neighbourhood by implementing a strategy for Norwegian action in vulnerable countries and regions. Increased Norwegian assistance to the unstable areas of the Middle East, North Africa and Sahel is an instrument to prevent the collapse of vulnerable states. We sometimes hear criticism of setting up some of the Norwegian aid against vulnerable countries, so here it is important to remember that some of the most marginalised people and groups live in these countries. There has been low economic growth in Europe over several years, although it is on the rise, but we are seeing a worrying development in Turkey with increased polarisation. Brexit is leading the second largest economy and the strongest military force in Europe to leave the EU. Increasing nationalism, protectionism and populism are a ‘toxic cocktail’. The policy message is based on a pro-active approach to these challenges. It is right to further develop the long lines of Norwegian foreign policy by contributing to the preservation and further development of the international legal order and strengthening the UN and other international organisations. Norway shall work to promote human rights, the rule of law and democracy and respond to serious violations of international law. Institutions to safeguard human rights and democracy have a more important role to play. We must work to protect and strengthen multilateral institutions and promote democracy, human rights and the rule of law. The Norwegian OSCE Presidency is now working in 2020 and Norway is elected a member of the UN Security Council for the period 2021 to 2022. NATO must be armed with the challenges we face. Norway is NATO in the north. The government will work for closer cooperation between NATO and the EU. Europe must take greater responsibility for its own security. It is good that the government will launch security policy dialogues with selected allies: France, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Germany. It's important to maintain American commitment in Europe, because the United States is our most important ally. We must therefore maintain the strong transatlantic ties and further develop the long-term security policy cooperation we have with the United States. President Trump recently confirmed that the United States is committed to transatlantic cooperation and NATO solidarity through Article 5. It's a pleasure. We have a long tradition in Norway with close cooperation with changing governments in the United States. It is positive that the government will contribute to conversion in NATO, so that the collective defence of the Alliance is strengthened against both old and new security challenges. At home, the long-term plan and the strengthening of our national defence are an important response to the challenges we face. The long-term plan represents a historical economic strengthening of the Defence. It is necessary after many years of underfinancing. The long-term plan contributes to national strengthening of our national defence and is a direct contribution to strengthening NATO's defence capabilities. We make heavy investments in submarines, maritime patrol aircraft, new fighter aircraft, air protection, large army investments and intelligence, to mention something. The government is delivering on strengthening Norwegian defence capabilities and facilitating increased allied presence and exercise in the north. Norway has taken initiative in NATO's maritime strategy, and it is crucial for us with sea areas six times as large as our land areas with a strategy affecting the North Atlantic and our nearest land areas. These areas are becoming increasingly strategically important in the military. Norway has also initiated a review of NATO’s command structure. The vision of a world without nuclear weapons is an expressed goal for NATO. At the same time, the alliance states that it will have nuclear weapons as long as such weapons exist. Nuclear disarmament must be balanced and reciprocal. A unanimous increase on 26 April 2016 decided that Norway should actively work for a world free of nuclear weapons and contribute to fulfilling the obligations of the non-proliferation agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1655	The Roadmap Communication shows that there is a relatively large and broad consensus in foreign and security policy in Norway. This is important, because it sends an important signal that it is as broad a consensus as it is. It also gives the government and the state councils the opportunity and space for action to do their job out there in the world. Clearly, for Norway, open world trade is extremely important. Although Norway is a relatively small country of population, we are a significant player in trade. And for a country like Norway, which is so dependent on its exports, it is important that you have good deals, that you have open markets. In this respect, it is also important to point out that we need to do everything we can to counteract protectionism. Protectionism, which unfortunately we see that some countries are now addressing, is going to be one of the biggest challenges in the years to come if we do not stop this development. So I really hope that this is something the government has high on the agenda, or I know it has it high on the agenda, and that you also have it in the future. We see in geopolitics that we have a displacement. We're getting several types of power centers around the world. The United States is probably still the only real power we have, but at the same time we see a China that not only gets bigger when it comes to the economic muscles, but also when it comes to the military. We also see a China that positions itself, among other things. in Africa and in a number of areas in terms of contract works. I want to commend the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the government for the work they did to reopen the Chinese market. The Chinese market is extremely important at a time that is now and especially for a country as dependent on trade as Norway is. When we look at what opportunities this could give to the fishing industry, it says itself, with a population of the size that the Chinese have, that this is important. There is nothing and no other means of getting more people out of poverty than trade. That is why it is important to maintain it. Furthermore, it is quite clear that our relationship with the EU and Europe in general is important. 70-80 pst. of all our trade goes to Europe. But it is also the case that there are challenges to open trade, and especially in a Europe that has as open borders as we have. There is a great advantage to the EEA Agreement and we are to protect the EEA Agreement. But we must also dry up the discussion about the non-functioning elements of the EEA Agreement – we must also take that debate. It is also a debate that goes on in other countries of Europe. It is about whether we have control of what is moving across borders in order to secure ourselves both against terror and other things, and it is about the debate on welfare systems that makes those countries that have good welfare arrangements also attract people who want to reap those fruits. We need to take that debate, but we need to take it in cooperation with the European Union to ensure that we can change some of these instruments, so that policy functions on a level playing field. Then I just have to say the following: we have got a Brexit, but we must not say that it is just a problem for Norway. It can also be a trigger for a positive trade situation. But it's clear that these are challenges. We have challenges in the North Sea relating to fisheries management, trade and agreements, but we have to go into that with an open mind. So I just want to say that what worries me the most in Europe right now is the evolution we see in Turkey. It's a Turkey going in the wrong direction, and at the same time it's a member of NATO. It gives us great challenges that we have to find a solution to. In conclusion, I would just like to say the following: with regard to the migration policy and the crisis we have seen, it is important to take action in the neighbourhood. Then you can get the most help possible in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1680	This crash message is primarily a security policy message. But it also reflects how the government wants security policy considerations to affect foreign policy or development policy. Norwegian – and international – security is a central state task. The Christian People's Party agrees that Norway should continue the long lines of Norwegian security policy. We shall maintain the strong transatlantic ties and further develop long-term security cooperation with the United States. We shall contribute to renewing and strengthening the NATO Alliance's collective defence. We shall strengthen Norwegian defence capabilities – not least in the north. We shall further develop cooperation with Russia based on common interests and a firm and prudent policy. We must strengthen international legal order and the UN – and promote human rights, the rule of law and democracy. We will work actively for balanced, reciprocal, irreversible and verifiable nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. These are some of us. Let me also add that Norway has a good tradition of supporting international arms control and disarmament efforts not only when it comes to weapons of mass destruction, but also when it comes to conventional weapons. A arms race leads to more weapons on both sides and does not necessarily give greater security and less risk to war. Mutual mandatory arms control is therefore important. This is where military acts have a special responsibility. So it's the continuity of the main lines, but it's the precision of two new weights. The European and Nordic dimension of Norwegian security policy shall be strengthened. The Christian People's Party agrees. It is useful to build closer security policy cooperation with selected European allies, i.e. France, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Germany. Norway must contribute to increasing European civil and military crisis management capabilities, effective external border control, close police and intelligence cooperation and anti-radicalisation and integration actions. The Christian People's Party also wants a stronger emphasis on the work of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. We need to strengthen multilateral institutions working for this and further develop international law. It is better that justice be followed than that power prevails. Efforts in Europe's unstable neighbourhood should also be strengthened. How this should be done in the area of assistance, I will comment in more detail on the debate that is coming a little later today. It is more difficult to decide on the government’s strategy for Norwegian efforts in vulnerable countries and regions, as the strategy is not presented to the Stortinget. The specific follow-up I will therefore come back to later. When it comes to the relationship between security policy and development policy, the Godal Committee’s Afghanistan evaluation is important. The report concluded that Norwegian efforts only succeeded in making Norway a good ally, a failure to create security, stability and democratic development in Afghanistan. The report also highlights the dilemma of using development policy to promote security policy objectives. This could be more highlighted in the message. In the hearing about the cases, it was from expert opinion, among other things. noted that increasing the emphasis of countries in North Africa may weaken poverty orientation. For example, the number of poor people in Tunisia is 2 pst. in Malawi. But this will probably give us an opportunity to come back later here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1716	I would like to thank the case spokesperson and the representatives of the Committee for their good work on the message. It has been a pleasant committee to be a member of. I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for his cooperation over the years that we have now left behind. It has been an instructive and good cooperation, even though we haven't always been a hundred percent number. But that's the way it should be. There is a broad consensus on several foreign policy issues in Norway, and that is good. At the same time, it is important to ensure an open exchange of words on issues where there are different views, both here in the staging room and in the people else. The Committee's setting provides for rapid and unexpected changes in foreign policy and security policy. As the leader also mentions, the Committee points out that the Stortinget autumn of 1989 received a big message on developments in the international community and the effects of Norwegian foreign policy, without being able to predict what happened three months later, when the Berlin Wall fell. The Committee notes that the safety position in Norway is more serious than for a long time and that the unresponsive is the hallmark of the time we live in. There is no doubt that the world around us in recent years has been more troubled. It is war in the Middle East, we have seen extensive terrorist attacks and conflict in Ukraine. This means that Norway must now show the will to build up its defence, and we must have a broad discussion of security policy. The central party wants a society where the people control the evolution of the country. A strong rule of the people in Norway has led a well-functioning and sovereign nation state. A strong and well-functioning nation state has maintained a strong defence and that we secure our national independence. I am pleased that a joint committee determines what could have been taken straight out of the Central Party's party programme, namely that Norway's national interests must be at the forefront of Norwegian security policy. The message is based on a slight lack of understanding of security and foreign policy and perhaps lacks an analysis of measures for some of the more defined global developments in the world today. Members of the Committee, including members of the Centre Party, stress the importance of increasing inequality, migration and climate change for our own security. A missing person in this message gives an indication of these dimensions and a reflection of how it should be viewed in our security policy options. Increasing inequalities, as we see in many countries, migration and climate change are drivers of conflict, and increasing inequalities within countries can lead to destabilization and stagnant political and social development in countries. Security policy must also be seen in the context of development policy. This can make the message somewhat ambitious on Norway's behalf. As the case-speaker said, Norway is not a small country in this context. And Norway should take more than less responsibility in areas where we can make a good contribution. We need to have an active and not a reactive foreign policy, and we need to take advantage of the space we have. We have changed our respect in many areas. Examples of issues where Norway should be more able to take a leading commitment are nuclear disarmament, where unfortunately this government has not been leading, conflict-building work, where it has been done and done very well, and reforming the UN peacekeeping forces. This is all the fields where we have a bit of power, but where we can strengthen our commitment. A joint committee states that at the same time as the Norwegian security policy throughout the post-war period has been based on collective defence through the NATO alliance, it has been Norway's line since we entered NATO in 1949, that we do not allow bases for the future powers to base their battle forces on the Norwegian territory in peacetime. The Committee of Consultants also notes that it is in Norway's interest to maintain stability and low tension in the neighbourhood. The Central Party will stress that the Norwegian basic policy has been a pillar of Norwegian security policy since Norway joined NATO in 1949 and that the basic policy is still to be established. It is important at a time when this question is being debated and there is some uncertainty created by the government about what a real meaning means.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1739	We live in an unstable world, where Norway must also take a position within the security policy to preserve and strengthen our values. We must, as many have pointed out, follow our own interest policy, but for the Left it is also essential that we keep up with what is our long-term interest, namely the strengthening of democracy, human rights and international law. When these may conflict with each other, the long-term objectives and considerations must weigh more heavily. There is no doubt that, as a smaller country, it is in the Norwegian interest to strengthen an international legal order and the multinational cooperation we have, whether within the UN, the OSCE or the Council of Europe, and we need to build up and strengthen our relationship and cooperation with Europe through the EU. In these days, it is important to bear in mind that although there is a process of the United Kingdom’s outsourcing of the EU — if it goes so far — the situation does not change that we need to strengthen our cooperation with the EU. Therefore, based on the relationship we have, cooperation must be strengthened and the EEA Agreement established – it must not be altered. Clearly, for Norway’s security position, NATO membership is the most crucial. It is essential that we be able to keep as strong a bond as possible transatlantic. But there's also a situation where it can be challenging, given to the administration that is now in the United States. Despite the need to strengthen NATO and maintain cooperation with the United States, we also need to take on a greater European role within NATO. That is why it is good that the government commits to stronger cooperation with France, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Germany, and we must take our part in strengthening our own defence. For the Left, it is important that we establish a defence where we can also deal with several different situations and do not become too dependent on a unilateral effort to apply Article 5. There is no doubt that the greatest security policy challenge in Europe today comes from Russia and their annexation of Crimea, their warfare and support for warfare in eastern Ukraine. For Norway, it is important that we stick to European cooperation and the firmness of the need for sanctions until there is a situation in which the policy changes and respect for international law is granted by the Russian side. Then it's a peculiar Norwegian challenge that, at the same time as our neighbours, with a big neighbour in the north, we have to be able to maintain a people-to-people cooperation at a lower level. This is a balance, but there can be no doubt that the most important thing for Norway and for the rest of Europe is that we are part of the common position and the common policy that Europe must pursue towards Russia. It was said that Turkey is in a special political situation within NATO that we also have to deal with. It is clear that we must be clear that human rights and democracy must also be respected in Turkey – in an increasingly authoritarian development. As has also been pointed out in the case, we have a very worrying area all the way from the Middle East – actually a belt from West Africa to Afghanistan. It is positive that the government will come back with its own strategy for vulnerable countries and regions – I think it is absolutely necessary – and it is absolutely necessary to have clear strategies for each country. It is also good that we strengthen assistance to this region in the Middle East and West Africa, because it is so crucial for Europe, and therefore also for our security, how progress is being made there. Finally, China’s emergence has been pointed out. Obviously, if the United States retreats more, others will fill the void. It is important, whether it is climate, economic or other, that it does not necessarily apply to China alone. Europe must play a much stronger role and be a stronger player, and Norway must take its position in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1758	We live in times of turmoil, but also in very variable times. It's sudden, quick shifts. For example, who had Imagine a few years ago that we were going to have a president in the United States that we see as very problematic, a close relationship in improvement with China and a Russia that we are more and more concerned about? The important thing, however, is the long-term development that we stand up to – the global shift of power that will unrelentingly make Asia and China more central in the world, not to mention major developments that I believe will have a strong impact on the world for decades to come: climate, migration and inequality are at least three very important keywords. In meeting with it, it's both good and not quite so good to say about the government's message, and there's agreement about important things, disagreement about others, in the committee. I am among those who do not think it is important or good in themselves that we are some of the most possible in foreign policy. On the contrary, what I agree with is that it's important that we have the ability to be able to deal with some crucial questions. But it is not important that there is agreement on the most possible – on the contrary: where it is thought too equal, it is often thought too little. So let me go through some completely central features from the SV's point of view. The most positive thing about the big message is what I actually see as a major orientation towards Europe and the Nordic region, as well as the transatlantic. To call it a choice would probably be to go too far, it looks more like sitting on two horses at once or having eggs in several baskets. But it could be right for a period of time, and I'll first of all interpret it positively that there's an increased emphasis there. I do not think we can see it entirely in practical policies during this enlargement period, but now we have a message and comments that provide the basis for more of such a turn – against the security of our neighbourhoods, against Nordic and European cooperation, against building a stronger community of values with other allies than just the United States. On the other hand, I thought the big message and many of the comments from the majority express far too low ambitions on behalf of what we can and should try to achieve with our foreign policy, and that we too much just feel bound by the world around us. We are open to a small country that is heavily influenced by the world around us, but the point of foreign policy is to use the space for action to influence developments as much as possible. We can do that in important areas – our geostrategic position, our resources and our competences give us a considerable opportunity to influence developments in the Arctic. The Nordic global economy gives us the potential, in total, to be a significant player internationally and in development policy, and in areas such as the sea or climate, we can have a leadership role in important areas for ourselves and for the world. I found both this four-year period and the message too little to express ambitions, a desire to be a leader, to drive forward new fields and to influence where we are facing major challenges some decades in time. The third is that even in those analyses, I found the message and, in part, the multiple too little to take up new developments that can dominate the way we perceive the world around us, the way it looks in the future. The growth in China's and Asia's power is going to be enormously rapid, and we're forced to focus more on that part of the world, which I think will affect both the United States and Europe. I believe areas as climate – and I want to add natural handicaps and the global image of bearer power – are going to have a completely different mindset in both domestic and foreign policy. I believe that for the major challenges in vulnerable states, but also when it comes to refugee and migration issues, the same applies in general. I want to add an area where we could have been a much larger leader this period, which the representative Navarsete was also in, and that pertains to nuclear disarmament. It's a field with great potential for progress in the years to come, where I hope Norway will soon become an important leader.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1771	First, I would like to underline what the Committee's chairman said at the outset. I think we have had very important and good cooperation in the period that is soon behind us, and that at a time when there has been a great need for the government to consult the Storting on many things and also to discuss important road choices. We have faced major changes, as several representatives have also pointed out in their contributions. A medium-sized economy such as Norway and a country with ambitions to influence both international foreign policy and the global political dimension, both in terms of development policy and in terms of security policy, is stronger if there is broad agreement on what is Norway’s starting point. When we worked for peace in Colombia, it was always a strength to know that the Storting had been behind in the difficult negotiations that were going on. Once we've raised education and girls and women's rights globally, there's been a relatively collective growth that's been behind it. Also, in dealing with our neighbours in the east, where we have had several challenges in this period, both with Storskog, asylum inflows and other issues, it is important that we get together on this issue. It makes us more powerful internationally. For a larger nation, it may not be so crucial, but for us it is a strength. It is said that Norwegian foreign and security policy is firm. The chairman of the Committee indicated that it cannot do so when the times and matters change so quickly. That's absolutely right, but what's solid is the values on which our foreign and security policy is based. Even those values are now being questioned around the world, and it is even more important to stand up for international law, which is our first line defense, and the liberal world order, with free trade and what is the win-win perspective: that what is good for others, is also good for us. That's what has brought us the welfare that we now see all over the world. One billion people have been lifted out of extreme poverty since 1990 only. It's never happened before in the history of the world. So you can't fix what's okay. Unfortunately, we see that isolationism, nationalism and protectionism are on the rise both in Europe and in North America. And we see that the United Kingdom is planning to leave the EU. But what I am experiencing now is that we are seeing ever stronger counterpowers mobilizing against this, not least in Europe. I believe that people want more cooperation and interaction across borders. We saw this, not least in connection with the French presidential elections. In the EU, we also see that French-German cooperation is the engine of Europe and important in the revitalisation of European cooperation. Asia also plays an increasingly heavy role, with more representatives involved. China is becoming an important global precursor and partner in several areas. Not least, we achieved an important breakthrough on 19 December last year, when we achieved a full normalisation of diplomatic and political relations between our countries. We have been accepted to start free trade agreements, and during this period we have also created much greater ownership of regional cooperation around the world. Norway is, for example, one of the first economies of our size that has established a partnership with ASEAN. We have established a partnership with the African Union, and we have established a partnership with the Pacific Alliance, which is the dynamic economies of Latin America. We have to make choices. It is right, as has been pointed out, that this communication strengthens the European and Nordic dimension of Norwegian security policy. And we are doing more to improve the situation in Europe's unstable neighbourhood south and east of the Mediterranean. In addition, we continue the close cooperation we have with our closest allies, anchored in our security policy, namely NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1789	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1794	In some areas of this message some big changes are being notified. This applies, inter alia, to: the doubling of assistance to the Western Balkans. There has been more instability there, and that is the reason for the message as well. However, this goes beyond what the foreign minister has said in the past about geographical concentration, and it is not justified why Norway is the right player. Why is it right now to escalate, and why is Norway the right actor?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1801	Norway is already one of the most important partner countries in the Western Balkans. We have embassies both in Serbia, in Bosnia and Croatia. We play an important role in Western Balkans both in stabilisation processes and in ensuring progress. Take, for example: Kosovo, where we are also represented with an embassy, where we are faced with a situation of 50 pst. youth unemployment. At the beginning of the period, we had almost twice as much assistance to the Western Balkans. In connection with the great influx of refugees, Stortinget decided to halve this aid. But we've seen in the last few years that the problems are starting to escalate on the Western Balkans, and I think it makes sense that we also accept our responsibility there. So I believe this is a continuation of a sensible policy, which has also led previous governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1806	In the last growing-up period, there was a fundamental criticism from the Right, whether it was against Minister of Foreign Affairs Espen Barth Eide or against Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre, that human rights were not an important enough matter for the government. In what areas have the Councils actually strengthened the work on human rights? This message introduces a concept called responsible realism. It does not testify to a more offensive attitude towards human rights? Is it the case that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has played a somewhat different role than what was demanded from the Right in the opposition before taking up the government offices?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1813	When we presented our own big message on human rights and how we are going to make it clear in Norwegian foreign policy, it was the first big business message about it in 15 years. We have presented our own freedom of speech strategy. We know that freedom of the press is under pressure in many parts of the world. There we have taken important initiatives. We have taken important initiatives in the field of human rights fighters, which are also in a very difficult situation in many countries. There we have received a majority for a Norwegian-initiated resolution in the UN Main Assembly to ensure the situation of human rights defenders. We have taken important initiatives in terms of women's rights, girls' rights. We've doubled the bet on education for girls. And we've taken initiatives for Safe Schools, that is, secure school buildings, so that they don't get attacked in wars and conflicts. I could do the list a lot longer, but I see that time has passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1818	The Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs point to closer cooperation with defined countries in the EU and with the Nordic countries — and specifically Germany, the Netherlands and France. The UK has ours and is a solid ally for Norway and an important piece in Norwegian security policy – it has been for many, many decades. I have no idea that the United Kingdom has signaled some weighty involvement in NATO cooperation or in security cooperation in Europe. Why is the United Kingdom not between the chosen countries of the Foreign Minister when it comes to security policy cooperation in Europe? And what does the Foreign Minister have to do to strengthen cooperation and cohesion in the NATO Alliance?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1825	I am pleased that there has been quite positive feedback in Stortinget – both here in the hall and, I feel, also in the setting – that, in addition to the important transatlantic cooperation with the United States, we are going to strengthen Nordic cooperation in security policy. I think we can pick up a lot by going deeper in cooperation with Sweden and Finland, which we have done in the period. Then we have said that we will deepen our cooperation with, among other things. Germany, France, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. So the United Kingdom is one of the countries with which we refer to strengthening cooperation and consultation on security policy. It is important, even in a situation where Europe needs to take greater responsibility for its own security. In NATO, it is essential – as the representative has said – to continue to strengthen NATO cooperation and that NATO and EU security cooperation are complementary and not overlapping, in the form of duplication.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1834	To the last Minister of Foreign Affairs, I'm very much in agreement with that. I would also like to make it clear that I agree that we should cooperate more closely, especially with the Nordic countries – and also with our allies in Europe. It's important. So we know that a president in the United States -- who is now Trump -- is not his eternal. It is very important that we keep up and strengthen transatlantic cooperation, which has our own and is important for Norwegian security policy. But to the last time the Foreign Minister talked about, the EU and the construction of a specific security policy and, if necessary, an own defence policy: I think it is wrong to go and build two parallel alliances. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs how he views it. Although cooperation is good, would it not really be wrong to use resources to build up a new bureaucracy, a new management system, within the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1841	I think we like to think that what the EU is doing in this area should be in addition to what NATO is doing, and it must be in areas where it is not natural for NATO to build capacity or structures. In any case, we must avoid unnecessary duplication of work. I think, unfortunately, there are enough crises and conflicts for all of us, so that we can imagine that the European Union is strengthening, for example. the work within this with cyberattacks, which are increasing. It can be seen that the EU has an important role to play in stabilising North Africa, in the area of migration. I think we are going to experience an EU that coordinates itself more in the field of foreign and security policy. Then it's our job to work closely up against them, so that we also have a word with the team. But for Norway is anchored NATO, it is NATO that has Article 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1850	As others have pointed out, the importance of China and Asia is increasing. One of the first to conclude the new President Trump was the TPP talks on a trade agreement with eleven countries around the Pacific, which is a strategic positioning along with some other democratic countries as an alternative to China. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs also pointed out, we have had a normalization of our relationship with China, while the United States is retreating. Then my question is: when, in our relationship with China, we continue to promote human rights and democracy, to what extent should we do this alone? To what extent should we do this together with the EU, which needs to take a stronger position, not least to support under democratic countries in Asia – whether it be Japan, South Korea or Indonesia? How will the Foreign Minister assess the priorities when these interests may conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1857	I think I agree with what lies behind the representative's question, that we have a lot to bring in cooperation with the EU in terms of the view of a liberal world order, human rights and freedom of expression. The visit to the EU High Representative for Foreign Policy, Frederica Mogherini, in Norway — over two days — has confirmed how close we are to each other on these issues. It also concerns climate and the Paris Protocol, this with the importance of development policy and stabilisation, and also the inclusion of important elements such as equal opportunities, sustainable growth – growth that creates new jobs. It's amazing how much we like to think about these questions. Human rights are important. The dialogue we have now started with China ensures its own mechanisms for this. Before December 19th, there was no dialogue. Now we're going to formalise that dialogue – including on human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1865	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1870	There is a broad consensus that the security policy situation is more serious than in the past, not because no direct threats have arisen to Norway, but because unforeseeableness has increased: Crimean annexation, eastern Ukraine, terrorist attacks, cyberattacks — in some attempts to dismantle the institutional order in Europe, well assisted by right-wing populist movements that will withdraw their country from a committed community, a United Kingdom leaving EU cooperation, and an American president breaking down with completely central support bars in American foreign policy over the past 70 years. After World War II, the United States took the lead in building important international institutions such as the World Bank, the IMF and NATO, and in Europe, EU cooperation was built – in total an institution-based political order. This changed the thinking about the concept of national interests. Community considerations became a new and increasingly major factor in international policy. Later, the impact of globalisation also emerged and created a new and strong economic integration between countries. Cooperation on a rule-based trade regime was emerging, today organised in the WTO. This institution-based political order developed a democratically anchored cooperation culture between countries. Conflicts could be dealt with within a new, peaceful and democratic arena. In this development, the United States has played a very central role, not only as a security policy guarantor as the leading global military power and the leading NATO country, but also through what we can call an idealistic foreign policy. The United States saw itself as a militant for and defender of liberal democratic values — not always as perceptive and successful in meeting liberation forces in other countries, and not always as consistent in the choice of partners, especially under the cold war definition of what was right and wrong, or during today's abuse of religion as a definition of conflict. But the American self-image and leading star was never «America first». It's the new one from a country that's been important for our security and for the international institution-based order. This greatly contributes to the unforeseeableness in which we now stand. In this situation, it is reassuring that EU countries strengthen cooperation in the field of security policy and defence policy, not as a competitor or substitute for NATO, but as a complement. A global strategy for EU foreign and security policy is in the process of being launched, and this week the Commission launched a reflection note on the development of defence cooperation, while launching the defence fund for research, procurement and development funding. Norway has the opportunity to participate, and I think Norway is doing the right thing. One thing is political forces in their own country that want to weaken our participation in committed international cooperation. One thing is a country, on the one hand, outside the cooperation structures, which is trying to re-establish the greatness of the former. But it is even more demanding when, in reality, the main country of institutional political order is turning its back on international responsibility and commitments. Because that is really what President Trump is doing. The Canadian Foreign Minister, Chrystia Freeland, said in an interview with The Globe and Mail on June 6 that the United States has left the world, and that Canada and their allies will stand together. Canada will preserve the multilateral institutions and the Western alliance, also in the light of the 'America First' policy. It's an important message to the one we've seen as our most important ally, which I think Norway has to stand behind. It's disturbing when the situation has become so that it's the generals we put our trust in to keep order in Washington. It has been an important principle that Norwegian foreign policy should be anchored in international law and based on internationally committed cooperation. More than ever, it is necessary to play with the political forces that will end up and develop the democratically anchored culture of cooperation developed over the last 70 years in international policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1889	Without resorting to clichés, there is little doubt that the power structures in the world are experiencing fundamental changes. Bonds between countries we used to take for granted are challenged for various reasons, and the uncertainty dominates. In such a situation, it is obvious that Norwegian foreign and security policy cannot remain firm. To the best of our ability, we need to interpret and understand the changes and adapt to the best interests of Norway. Norway has long played a global role that far exceeds our size and importance. It may in some cases be positive for the country, but it can also confront us with foreign policy responsibility in addition to what we can deal with on our own. This means that Norway should be cautious about launching new diplomatic missions. The outcome of the presidential elections in the United States could in the long run have a major impact on cooperation across the Atlantic. The US's new and strong scepticism for international cooperation and supranational commitments is new and confronts all European countries with new and unknown challenges. At the same time, we have to deal with the realities. The United States' expressed wish that the interests of the United States are better protected by partial isolation and renegotiation of international agreements is due to long-term latent currents in the American population. This is not a single event, but a trend that will strengthen in the years to come. Time suggests that most Americans are increasingly related to the cold war, and that new generations are looking forward, not backwards. Demographic changes in both the United States and Europe contribute to our former common identity becoming less clear and the United States' foreign policy priorities are changing as a consequence. In any case, it is absolutely essential that Europe and the United States maintain defence cooperation and that we be able to stand together in our protection of democracy and common values of freedom. If we're going to get this done, it's important that we make NATO more relevant, and that the alliance sticks to the problems it's set to do. NATO shall be a defence and security alliance, in which case the discussions within the alliance must relate to it. Unfortunately, as a member of the Parliamentary Delegation of the Storting to NATO, I have, in part, experienced the opposite, which has been reacted to by American colleagues. Cooperation within NATO faces several challenges. The alliance grows rapidly and has some growing pain. Developments in the authoritarian direction of Turkey can in the long run damage cooperation, and breaking alliances in the war on terror can in the long run make NATO cooperation more demanding. Neither does there exist a definite end to a war against terrorism, which means that an exit strategy does not really exist. It does not necessarily mean that international forces do not make a good and idealistic effort, with the aim of combating barbarism and evil, but at a time to confirm that terror is combated, and that the war is won, will be almost impossible. The war on terrorism also has a different consequence for which European countries were little prepared. Refugees and migration, on grounds of the ongoing wars, are putting European cooperation to the test. Only this year, 200,000 migrants are expected to try to get over the Mediterranean. It is a paradox that, while European countries are sending their young men and women to fight terrorism in several countries in the Middle East, their own young men flee to Europe to seek asylum. There is little doubt that the upsurge of radical Islam is increasing – that is true in all parts of the world. Beast terror, with the aim of killing as many civilians as possible, has become part of the new everyday life in many places. Terror is a form of warfare that is difficult to protect against. If you wish, it would restrict the freedoms of the inhabitants that we cannot or will not accept. The fight against terrorism must therefore start where it finds the ground. Fanatism and terrorism are not due to poverty or unemployment. It is due to the acceptance of hate messages conveyed through Muslim religious communities and not least Quran schools in the Muslim world. Norwegian foreign policy must take this on board, and we must be consistent with who we play with – Saudi Arabia, for example, is not a country Norway in any way should work closely with. If we don't, it's not credible if we raise our voice to other countries' or other groups' violation of human rights. Our peaceful coexistence with Russia has been tested in recent years. It is therefore positive that the government expresses an ambition to improve and further develop our relationship with Russia. Of course, it must not go beyond the international legal order, but at the same time we must assess our neighbourhood in a broad and long-term perspective. It's e.g. infrequently wise to impose penalties without having a realistic objective of when the penalties can be abolished. In a moving world, it is important that Norway join closer to those countries that share our value base. It is therefore positive that the government wants to strengthen the European and Nordic dimension of Norwegian security policy through closer security policy cooperation with selected European allies. This community must naturally also include a common fight against radical Islam and Islamist terrorism. Norwegian foreign policy shall put Norway’s interests first. It is therefore very important that the government actively works to establish good trade relations with new major powers in Asia. In this context, it is important that the government and our export companies play a team, and that through our diplomacy we open doors. In this context, it is very positive that our political contacts and relations with China become normalized. That Asia's major powers, China and India, have caused millions of people out of poverty, is a brunt of dimensions, and it shows how vital it is to have a stable governance and not least an education system that focuses on knowledge and science.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1914	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1919	Norwegian foreign policy begins in Europe. An active European policy has been central to this government. The events in Europe over the last four years have shown that the foreign policy line has been successful, and not least the strategic decision to appoint a separate EU/EEA Minister has proved to be of great importance to Norway. Since February 2014, Europe has been marked by major dramatic, foreign turbulence and growing acute crises. We have experienced Russia's violation of international law, refugees and a wave of migration and the emergence of violent extremism and jihadism. There has been a continuous series of horrific terrorist attacks in cities in the very heart of Europe, now last in the United Kingdom. This, together with low economic growth, has given ground for the emergence of extreme forces and parties on the outer fleas, often with simple answers. We see worrying moves by countries in the EU moving in an anti-democratic direction. We are experiencing a vulnerability that is increasing, and increasing unforeseeableness. The basic values of our European liberal democracies are being challenged – values that the generations before us have fought and that we must ask ourselves if we have taken for granted. Freedom of expression is under pressure in many places. We see sub-currents we haven't seen since the mid-war: a wave of anti-globalization, scepticism to established institutions, isolationism, protectionism and nationalism. These are trends that are increasing at a time when we need the opposite, namely more cooperation. European cooperation is now under test. Crisis management has marked the EU in recent years. EU countries have different approaches. Some want closer integration and more solidarity, while the United Kingdom, our most important ally in Europe, has chosen to break out of the Union through Brexit. The choices made by the British and the Member States will shape Europe for a long time to come. It will require a lot of political leadership, and it will have consequences for Norway. It is therefore important to fence around the EEA Agreement. I am pleased that the government is close to the processes and takes good care of Norwegian interests. It is in Norway’s interest to continue the long lines of Norwegian foreign and security policy. There have been several people here today. At the same time, the situation requires that we adapt policy to the new challenges we face, i.e. that we make choices. A key conclusion of the Communication is that Norway needs to build closer security policy cooperation with the EU and European allies, further develop and create closer links with Germany, the United Kingdom, France and the Netherlands, as well as the Nordic countries. We need to ensure better Norwegian access to the planning and implementation of EU operations, and we need to double the assistance to the Balkans. It is also good that the government will apply for the Norwegian Presidency of the OSCE in 2020, in order to also take responsibility for security policy in Europe. Although the situation is uncertain, we must not, however, lose faith in Europe's future and the robustness of the universal values on which we build our democracies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1940	I think I have to start with a case report, because there are members of the Norwegian Storing who believe that the national transport plan is the most important document being dealt with here. It must obviously be wrong. What you are discussing today is much more important than a toll station in Asker and Bærum, even a county road in Northernland, at my discretion. When I read this big message for the first time, I thought the Secretary of State must have the best job in the world. Getting permission to create a basic document that discusses Norwegian opportunities, Norwegian challenges in a larger context, must be a fantastic task. Playing on the knowledge network you have, playing on good relationships to build on Norwegian and Western values, must be an opportunity of dimensions, I thought. As long as it's about focusing on what we're good at, what we can contribute to, we have the right focus. At the same time, it must be allowed to say that even the Nordics need exorbitantness. I am very pleased that the Stortinget found it timely to take the initiative to present the Godal report, on our contributions to Afghanistan. Because even if we're proud of ourselves, that doesn't mean you're infallible. Even we, in our eagerness to assist and do things right, do not always achieve optimal solutions. There we must be humble. The Afghanistan report showed that we were good at helping more people go to school. We were good at helping to ensure that the health service was good, so that infant mortality fell. We're gonna be proud of that. But that the security situation in Afghanistan at present is something particularly better than it was in the past, I am very doubtful about it. Others, during today's debate, have argued that foreign policy is never static. I think that's to those degrees true. It also means that you have to have a dynamic thinking about what you want to do to achieve what you think is as correct as possible. Then I think what you're doing today is giving a guide to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Government. But at the same time you have to have a close and good dialogue with the Stortinget, you have to do this. I also think, as someone else has said, that there is no doubt that the United States is still our most important ally. But I think that's a difference in how you perceive, for example. Russia as a neighbour from North Norway, compared to how people living in ‘Tjuk-Norway’ look at it. There's a significant difference, because having a greater proximity to a big neighbor does something with an attitude. It has to be taken into account when drawing conclusions. If I should say that there is something missing, one thing I would like to see in the message that is not included, is the clarification of Norwegian ambitions to get the Nordics to take up work in larger international organisations, for such an even greater extent to be ‘hands on’ and could affect outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1957	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1973	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e1984	As the rapporteur for the Report Configuration. St. 24 for 2016-2017 – Joint responsibility for the common future – I would like to start by thanking the Committee for its cooperation. This is an important message on a topic that has been much debated this spring. With the Communication, the Government wishes to highlight the course for Norwegian development policy in the future and how development policy and assistance can contribute to the greatest possible reduction of poverty and sustainable development in a changed and demanding international situation. Sustainability targets oblige all countries. Norway will follow-up and will set sustainability targets at the heart of development policy. So this message deals with the international aspect of our relationship with sustainability goals. I therefore believe that it is important to establish that there is a unanimous committee presenting today's position and that a unanimous committee in its comments states that ‘there is a broad cross-political consensus on Norwegian development policy’ and that ‘the overall objectives of aid are and remain to save lives, alleviate distress and contribute to poverty reduction’. And then in this setting, we have some nuances and clarifications that deepen the opinions and views of the different parties. However, the Committee notes that the broad lines of development policy are being pursued. This agreement is precisely what allows Norway to do its long-term work on, for example: education, health, climate and forest activities. Norway should also continue to be champions of international standards and driving rules, and human rights are at the forefront here, as I see it. With this Communication, the government has sought to facilitate the increased use of partnerships with the private sector, civil society, multilateral actors and national authorities in cooperation countries – in order to contribute to poverty reduction and relief of poverty in an increasingly complex world, where the relative importance of assistance is decreasing. No country can develop from the outside. Responsibility for the development of a country and the needs of its inhabitants lies primarily with the authorities of that country. Norwegian assistance must therefore aim at helping developing country authorities to build up state capacity and good services in their own country. Development assistance and assistance are still important in many places, but it must deliver results and have an impact. This is why this government has already started a process of clearer results orientation and more efficiency in aid work. A geographical concentration of aid has been achieved and administrative action has been taken. The number of countries receiving Norwegian assistance and the number of aid agreements have decreased between 2014 and 2016, and in the future, Norwegian bilateral assistance will focus on a limited number of partner countries. The Committee notes – and supports – the effectiveness and improvement of aid management in this way. The Committee also supports the exclusion of humanitarian aid, non-governmental organisations and Norfund from the concentration principle. Assistance is potentially a powerful tool to support the efforts of national authorities to develop their own country. But it is the country's resource base, national policies, trade and economic growth that are most important for poverty reduction. Private sector and private investment are therefore an important driver of economic development. The assistance budget will in future focus on some key areas of action: education, health, business development and job creation, climate, renewable energy, environment and humanitarian action. Action areas are all at the heart of economic growth and poverty reduction. They are interconnected and mutually reinforcing. Gender equality is a cross-cutting issue — and not least, continuing to prioritise education for women is a very important area for us. It is good because in a recent report by UNESCO, the Global Education Monitoring Report, one can unfortunately read that for six years in a row, it is a fact that the total amount of aid for education has been reduced. Aid for training is now far from what is needed to achieve sustainability objective No. 4th@item: inlistbox For example, the United States and the United Kingdom have have been the largest providers in the field of education for several years, but their contributions fell by 11 pst, respectively. and 9 pst. from 2014 to 2015. UNESCO bases its report on new OECD figures and they show that Norway and Germany can be presented as the honorable exceptions, with an increase of 50 pst, respectively. and 34 pst. Norway has also set the need for increased international funding for education on the global agenda. We have a responsibility – and we take responsibility. Then it is also about making the best contribution, as our Prime Minister spoke of when she attended the European Aid Conference in the European Parliament on 7 June, that aid must be set up in such a way as to dampen war and conflict and to support it under sustainable solutions, education, health and job creation. This is precisely because demographic developments in Africa and the Middle East mean that millions of young people enter a labour market that is unable to absorb them each year. The population of Africa is expected to double and now well over two billion by 2050. About 70 pst. the population is less than 30 years of age and the average age is 18. It is estimated that almost 20 million new jobs are needed each year. That's a lot of numbers. The Committee also notes that more than half of Norwegian aid already goes to sub-Saharan Africa and that 73pst. of new investments from Norfund in 2016 were made in Africa. The Committee also notes that ‘important contributions to industrial development take place through Norfund and that the Government proposes to increase support’. The figures tell us that through their investments Norfund has contributed to the creation of nearly 300,000 jobs and the creation of about 300,000 jobs. 700 companies. It's a violent work that needs to be done to prevent lost generations. The government has therefore in its period doubled the investment in education and maintained its commitment to health. Aid for humanitarian aid has increased by 50 pst. We can't do everything, but we can do our part. Consensus has been a topical issue in the aid debate. I could say more about – as time went by – but I would like to briefly remind you that the conclusions of reports on the coherence of government and departments, as well as from other Norwegian and international reports and indices, are that Norwegian policies, with few exceptions, are among the most coherent in the OECD area. Since 2010, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has had a close dialogue with other departments on the impact of their policies on developing countries. The sustainability objectives reinforce the need for coherence between foreign and domestic policies in order to create development in all countries and secure global common resources. That's a consensus. In the end, I want to do a rare business from this pulpit, namely self-criticism. As rapporteur of the case, I think we could have deepened our view of the «leave no one handicap» of sustainability objectives in a broader way, not least in the light of the fact that this very day, June 15, is a special day. At the moment, it is the end of the tenth state-party meeting on the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, also with our government represented. Yes, perhaps we could have said something about the special challenges of the disabled in poor countries, and in areas of war and conflict. There's a billion disabled people in the world, and 80 pst. They live in poor countries. 20 million disabled children do not go to school, 12 million of those over 60 million refugees are disabled, and more than one million disabled people die each year of poverty and malnutrition. The Committee points out in its attitude to the plans to set up a knowledge bank to coordinate and strengthen the work on technical assistance and knowledge transfer – in order to be able to make an effort where Norway has additional prerequisites. We support this. Programmes such as Fish for Development, Oil for Development and Tax for Development are included in these plans — in addition to Norwegian institutions and ombudsman schemes for the promotion of human rights and equality. In this context, I would like to point out from this speaker that Norway has been accepted as a country with broad knowledge and good law and practice in relation to gender equality. But I also believe that we have in terms of including and facilitating people with disabilities. Perhaps the planned knowledge bank can also become an important measure in which Norwegian experience of what works for inclusive development can be systematically exploited. Norwegian experience with the development of inclusive education, assistance centres, local organisation, user-driven personal assistance and universal design could be actively shared and met with the demand created by sustainability goals in partner countries. With this, I recommend the Committee's position and also refer to the Stortingen's consideration of the draft representative for reform of the development policy in the Inst region. 243 S for 2016-2017. I would also like to thank the Committee on a general basis for constructive cooperation on Norwegian aid policy over four years – and wish us all the best of luck with an even better development policy in the years to come, following this communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2028	In September 2015, the UN adopted a new global agenda for development. The world’s leaders agreed on 17 overall sustainability targets and a total of 169 targets. The decision was based on the fact that – I had almost said – everyone should, at least all countries and people, regardless of who they are, and where they come from. This is the background to the message we have to deal with today. It is stated that our aid policy must take account of four cross-cutting considerations: it is human rights, it is women and equality, it is climate and environment, and it is anti-corruption. These are areas on which there is broad political agreement. In addition, of course, education, health, business, job creation and humanitarian aid – just for mentioning it. For the Workers' Party, the starting point is that Norwegian development policy should help fight poverty, strengthen the capacity of developing countries to solve their own problems and create growth and development. The path out of poverty goes through economic growth, job creation and fair distribution in the framework of stable countries. The own priorities of developing countries need to be taken into account, and we need to focus on areas where Norwegian expertise, technology and experience can be useful. Financial resources and competences should be moved closer to the beneficiaries. Solidarity, not charity, must be the starting point. Let me draw two areas in particular. First women and equality. Meg is particularly hard on the heart that women's rights and equality are given high priority. Not least in recent months' alarming signals from the U.S. President give reason to increase the bet. It is not just from Norway, it is in an interaction or cooperation in Europe to ensure women’s position and the right to sexual and reproductive health. We have to pick up what the Trump administration has now said no to, to ensure that these programs are further developed. Through GAVI and other international organisations, Norway has contributed significantly to improving health provision in many developing countries, not least child mortality is significantly reduced through the GAVI vaccine alliance. This, together with increased emphasis on education, and especially on girls, is an important contribution to achieving the UN's sustainability goals. People with disabilities are particularly poor. It is therefore also essential to ensure that the inclusion of people with disabilities is taken into account particularly in the design of the aid policy. The second thing I want to highlight is the commitment to job creation and business. We may not be able to mention it often enough, because it is a prerequisite for development. A unanimous committee states that decent work is the most important instrument for combating poverty and for bringing people out of poverty. decent work contributes to the ability of developing countries to create well-being through tax revenue and through fair distribution of income. We need to increase Norwegian support for industrial activities in developing countries, and it is necessary to facilitate strategic cooperation with Norwegian businesses and Norwegian knowledge environments in that work – this because work and job creation, and therefore tax revenue, are a prerequisite for growth, development and poverty reduction. Norway contributes positively, inter alia: through Norfund, but also others. Norfund contributes to the industrial development of developing countries and is an important tool for job creation and growth and ‘must be a flexible, credible and long-term partner for commercial operators’, as reported in the Prop Review. 1 S for 2015-2016. Our commitment to industrial development must take place in a sustainable way. The ILO core conventions must form the basis, of course. Employees must have the right to organise and have collective bargaining rights. This means that Norwegian development work must contribute to the creation of trade unions and employers’ organisations. It is also necessary to emphasise human rights and the development of democracy in a country when supporting business start-ups. Norwegian aid and development policies must contribute to increased financial transparency and prevent Norwegian business investment from contributing to tax evasion and corruption. It might have become more important than ever to emphasize it. I mentioned the effort to strengthen women's opportunities. Let me add women's opportunities for work and economic rights. We also need to reinforce that. A study from the World Bank shows that 100 countries still have laws that restrict women’s employability — through restrictions on either working hours or the type of work women can have. It is important that we intervene, so Norway must speak with a clear voice also internationally. It's also about fighting structures. There is a need to work widely in order to reduce political, economic, legal and social barriers to women's participation in the labour market, as well as to promote women's opportunities as entrepreneurs, for example. It is important, but it also concerns women's financial participation, savings and loan groups, adult training, microcredit and entrepreneurship, and not least women's ownership and inheritance rights. Equal access to land must be ensured for women. Not least the agricultural area and the ability to own the areas in which they farm. Women are important agricultural producers in most developing countries – we may not always think of that. Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and the Committee on Cooperation both in this matter and in general for four years. It has been a pleasant committee to be in, and a very competent committee. I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2058	Let me start by thanking case rapporteur Sylvi Graham for a very good job, I agree with Marit Nybakk there. Nevertheless, I allow myself to make some reminders, some historical facts. The 2017 aid budget is 1 pst. of GNI. In 2016, we gave 36.6 billion. kr in aid. Developments in Norway’s use of money for aid have increased considerably from the start in 1960, when we spent 8 million. kr on aid in South Korea and India. The level of ambition has been skyrocketing: Norwegian tax money alone would solve many problems in the world’s poor countries — countries with minimal knowledge. It has led to a huge waste of funds. We need to recognise that it is not possible to impose fundamental social changes on other countries. We must therefore be realistic, given the context of the individual actions and the means at our disposal. The primary responsibility for development must lie with the leadership of the countries themselves. This government has done a good job of cleaning up the huge sums we've spread around us since we started doing this in 1960. One is the concentration of the number of countries. When the Right and Advance Party took over the Red-Green Government in 2013, Norway provided assistance to 116 countries. This is 60 pst. of all countries in the world. The number of countries receiving assistance is now down to 88. Most of the aid money will go to 20–25 selected countries, where Norway has a particular opportunity to make a difference. In many of these countries, assistance is planned to be phased out gradually, in line with their own plans. The second is the concentration of the number of agreements. We also inherited over 6 000 aid agreements, many of which were quite inactive. The number of agreements is reduced to 4000 – i.e. reduced by one-third. The third is concentration of theme. The things to which the aid was to go were shattered in every direction. Aid is now more thematically restricted and is primarily intended to provide education, health services and jobs to the poorest in the world. ‘Unlike previous governments that have talked about concentration, this has actually done something’. This was written by the technical editor for the aid industry. But I have to say I am a little surprised that the Progress Party is alone in some comments. This applies, inter alia, to: on page 4, on migration, but also on page 5, where we refer to the humanitarian budgets. In a section on page 5, we point out that the humanitarian budgets have increased by more than 50 pst. under the current Government. A large part of these funds are being used to improve the conditions for refugees. The Progress Party supports the government's commitment to training among refugees in the neighbourhoods. We refer to the establishment of economic zones in Jordan, where Syrian refugees can work, and where products have customs freedom on the European market. There are also initiatives to set up founding centres where refugees can be helped to start their own businesses. We also show that the government has specified that Norwegian humanitarian efforts in Syria and neighbouring countries will go to job creation, and believe that this is important for, among other things. to improve the situation of refugees in the neighbourhood and to support the host society. This is important, and I assume – and hope – that it is a mistake that the other parties do not support this. For in the budgetary position of Prop. 1 S, page 32, says something else to the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee. Then you're positive. Only SV was – or is – opposed. Then an overwhelming majority say that it is important that humanitarian efforts among refugees also go to job creation, and the majority is aware that European countries have taken a number of initiatives to increase the number of jobs in the neighbourhoods, especially among Syrian refugees. In addition, the EU has increased the trade barriers for Jordanian companies employing Syrian refugees. An overwhelming majority, with only the SV's voice, believe that the government should look at how Norway can best contribute to increasing employment among refugees in the neighbourhood. I hope – and assume and believe – that the majority believes the same thing now and not here with wing policy, and I was somewhat reassured when I heard Marit Nybakk on at least behalf of the Workers' Party. I too would like to thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2087	I'm not going to start with the whole history of Norway's aid and development policy, but if we start in India and South Korea, it hasn't been so bad with those countries. Not all of the aid and development policies now come, but we have achieved significant results. The UN's Millennium Goals precisely provided for mobilization to reduce extreme poverty and trade. A wide range of people have access to basic dishes such as schooling and health care. By 2030 it will be mobilised for new bearer targets. Eradicating poverty is objective No. 1, then follow the goal of eradicating sulphur, ensuring good health, good education, gender equality, clean water and good sanitary conditions. This is particularly important for the poorest countries and for aid. In addition, there is a range of other measures that apply more to all, both rich and poor countries. We must promote less inequality, decent work and economic growth, clean energy for all, resilient cities and societies, responsible consumption and production, stop climate change, secure life both under water and on land, and promote peace and justice. These global objectives challenge us more broadly than aid policy. Here rich countries have a great home to do, and that also applies to our own country. In other words, while the UN’s Millennium Goals were mainly about mobilising aid for the world’s poor countries, the sustainability targets include much more objectives and efforts that have nothing to do with the aid budget. It will then be important to avoid rich countries spending more on the aid budget to preserve their own interests than to fight the remaining extreme poverty. Self-interest considerations may weaken efforts for the poor and our common interests. I am thinking not only of slogans such as ‘America first’, but that all countries must be legitimate national interests, but it is dangerous that such self-interest leads to mutual free trade being limited by increasing protectionism, that binding measures to improve the planet’s climate are replaced by short-term local fossil energy investments, that military armaments races are distorting efforts for joint arms control and disarmament that increase security, and that growth in their own economy is distorting international efforts for decent work and reducing inequality. These are the choices we have to make. On many points, the government’s report on resilience continues to provide important main lines of Norwegian development policy. There's a lot of support for that. At some point, undue doubt is created and signals are given that Norwegian ownership interests – and not development in poor countries – are to be governed. Let me give you an example of the bilateral state-to-state assistance section of the message. Where the objective of such assistance is to promote ‘our interest’ in the promotion of Norwegian business and trade, errors of location are requested. The entire Committee responds to this section by stressing the need for Norwegian assistance to contribute to the build-up of state capacity and good services in the administration of the rights of the population in developing countries. The objective of state-to-state assistance shall continue to be to promote development in poor countries. The Christian People’s Party is also pleased to have received the entire Committee, with the exception of the Government Party, to state that it is ‘very problematic if the objective of reducing the number of aid agreements leads to the continued refusal of good development measures’. The reason why we want to clarify this is the message from Norwegian voluntary organisations, who find that the leadership of the Ministry is making Norad stop supporting good development projects, because the goal of reducing the number of agreements is part of the support assessment. This may affect smaller voluntary organisations, or efforts by specifically disadvantaged groups, such as disabled people in developing countries. This is the opposite of efforts we should strengthen. I am also pleased that there is a consensus committee that points to the Christian People's Party's document 8:25 S for 2016-2017, on the reform of development policy. We're waiting with excitement for the government's follow-up there. Finally, I would like to thank the case-speaker, Sylvi Graham, who knows this area very well, and who has again made a brilliant effort as case-speaker. It has helped to lift this important work this spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2110	The objective of development policy is to reduce and eliminate poverty in the long term. The centre party wants to facilitate a society with less inequalities, both nationally and globally. Small differences build trust in society, which is fundamental to good and sustainable development. Unfortunately, we see that inequalities are increasing in many countries. The overarching objective of development policy is to save lives, alleviate nudity and, as I said, to help reduce poverty. If we are to close it down, Norway must consider the long term in the aid policy. We have to think long-term and act prudently. There is an important link between thematic efforts, not least of the concerns of different civil organisations involved in the development of the countries where they work. We need to think in the long term to prevent sulphur disasters, which in turn feed conflicts and other crises. A long-term focus on food production may reduce the level of acute immediate solutions. The proposal on far-sighted and long-term assistance efforts in specific sectors such as health, education, business development, agriculture/food security and climate is very important. The centre party was in the management of Innst. 243 S for 2016-2017, the Christian People's Party's private legislative proposal on development policy, clearly stating that agriculture and food security must be an own field of activity, not just a sub-theme of economic development, and I am very pleased that it was agreed. Development policy requires us to make sure that all people meet their most basic needs. It's hard to provide education and learning that makes sense to those who walk around the silts without access to clean water. The centre party thinks the UN's resilience targets point straight. While Objective No 1 says that poverty is to be eradicated in the world, making goal no. 2 it is clear that one should eradicate sulphur, achieve food security and better nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture. Norway has a high level of competence in agriculture, which we must take advantage of in our development work. An agriculture that increases productivity based on a sustainable management of the earth and natural resources is decisive to lift more people out of poverty. The Norwegian model with a cooperative that ensures food producers supply rights, and ensures that the excess goes back to new production, is a model we can export. The Right and the Advance Party do not support the plural comments relating to more offensive agricultural bets, but would like Norway to take a lead in the fisheries and maritime sectors. There's no contradiction between these two leadership roles. At a breakfast meeting today under the auspices of several development organisations, it was marked how different government parties refer to agriculture and fisheries. What is the reason why the government party will not support a more offensive agricultural initiative? Is it because one denies that Norway has a good and viable model? At today’s meeting, where many aid organisations were represented, the Norwegian agricultural model was raised and valued – among others. from a professional environment within the area. The Central Party supports an offensive commitment to fisheries and the marine sector in development policy. We also expect the government to follow up today's pluralities, which will increase agriculture and food security by its percentage of Norwegian aid. A Joint Committee identifies the importance of gender equality and the strengthening of women's rights in all development policies. Strengthening women's rights and improving equality in several beneficiary countries is an objective in itself. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure economic development and a fair distribution of resources. That's well documented, among other things. by the World Trade Organisation, strengthening women's economic, political and social rights strengthen democracy and facilitate economic development. Development policy is not driving us for our own part. It motivates us to help, facilitate, strengthen and build countries that, for various reasons, have far worse foundations than we have in our own country. Perhaps we should sometimes be more grateful for the unlikely positive situation we have in our own country. It's not that long since Norway too was a small developed country in need of help. Today, we have created a society with good distribution, with great resources, and it is important that we can share the economic resources, but also the human resources and knowledge we have, so that others can build their countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2131	I think the title of the big message, that is common responsibility for the common future, well sums up the importance of sustainability objectives. The sustainability objectives must be the main decision taken by the world in implementing and implementing them. The level of ambition is enormous. The objectives are to eradicate poverty, eradicate hunger, stop climate change and more, a total of 17 sustainability goals. We have a joint responsibility to implement these, both with development policy and within each country in the coming years. We have a common basic interest in the success of this. In view of these objectives, the world needs to change in the coming years. The sustainability targets are numerous and comprehensive, and they apply both internationally and nationally. The Prime Minister said in an interpellation in the autumn of 2005 that these objectives set an important framework for policy in all countries, including Norway. In the Left, we are pleased that the government also makes such a clear basis in this communication that the sustainability objectives will be the basis of Norwegian development policy. Five main thematic areas are presented, including: climate and environment, education, health, industrial development and job creation. We're supporting it under it. It's also right to add up to a geographical concentration of where we're going to have our efforts. One thing is to put up an increased commitment to long-term cooperation with individual countries, for which we have a long tradition, but we also believe that efforts towards countries that are directly or indirectly in conflict are right. In particular, as we also mentioned in the previous case, there is a very worrying area from West Africa to Afghanistan. There it is important that we take with us the experience we have from the operations and engagement in Afghanistan, and the report we have received from the Godal committee, that we learn from it, just to get better results there, but also to achieve better results in other countries and get good progress. I also believe that it is important to support individual countries even though they are not necessarily the poorest. Countries like Tunisia will be absolutely essential if we are to be able to stabilise, so that they can have a greater and wider impact on a more democratic development throughout the Middle East. I believe that in this type of country in the most difficult areas, the most difficult transition, we must also play our role, along with the rest of Europe. So look at some of the themes: in the Left, we are pleased that poverty orientation is firm, and, of course, that climate and environment must be important in Norwegian development policy. We need a global green development policy, and greenhouse gas emissions need to sink, and they need to go down all over the world. Although the United States wants to withdraw from the Paris Agreement, the rest of the world has to be able to strengthen the Paris Agreement and stick to its content and objectives. Therefore, it is also good to warn that aid to Norfund should be increased, but as the United States withdraws, Norway, as other countries, must also be willing to increase aid internationally in order to build up under the Paris Agreement, whether it be the green fund or it is in other areas. Here, an enhanced effort will be required. Education and research must be a major field of action for Norway. Knowledge and exchange of experience are essential in order to achieve the different objectives. We need research to find good solutions to sustainability, food security, business and good distribution policies. We agree with the government on education and, in particular, on the priority of education for girls. This also applies to women and gender equality, which still has to be important in Norwegian foreign policy. When the United States is also retreating with its efforts, it is right and important that we increase support for sexual and reproductive health. Equality is about sex, it's about indigenous people's rights and freedom of belief, but also, as it was mentioned earlier, disabled people. Much remains to be done to put disabled people's rights on the agenda. Norway needs to play a stronger role here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2152	I agree with the last speaker that the bearing force target is one of the most potentially important decisions in the world, and therefore this is a good framework for both the committee setting and the message that has been presented. As the case spokesman – who has done a good job – said, there is quite a lot of agreement in many ways now. But let's stop and take a little look back: it's quite new in Norwegian development policy history that there's a broad consensus about development policy. Perhaps it is actually the new thing in this field in this period, for historically, the Right Party and the Progress Party have been strongly critical of politics. Right has stood for big cuts, the Progress Party for astronomical cuts, and both parties have partly had ideological disagreements with the broad plural. We might therefore say that during this period there has been a new, common minimum standard in a broad consensus that development policy has been well-functioning, that the 1 pst objective is correct – now supporting all of it in the budget – and strong support for a range of initiatives: health, education, peace and reconciliation, climate. Many of these have been asked questions in the past. It is exciting to see if the broad unity lasts beyond the possible – hopefully – government change. But on top of this: when you see the setting, it's still the discrepancy that lies there, to a large extent divides between the Right and the Advance Party on one side and all the other parts on the other side. Several of them already have names. The poverty orientation is pointed out in joint comments from SV, the Labour Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The comment taken by the representative Hareide, which concerned the choice of partner countries, has the same character – a long and important note. When it comes to the mechanism of the concentration and view of the vulnerability strategy and its follow-up, all five parties stand together against the government. The same applies to the indication of the need for cohesion reform and how important it will be. It refers to the importance of inequality in development policy. It's hard for me to understand that the Right Party and the Progress Party are not in there. They are not. On the other hand, the Right Party, but not the Progress Party, has entered into another important note, pointing out that the environment and climate should be a central part of Norwegian development policy in the coming years. So the ideological – or value – distinction persists here, as it did in the representative proposals from the Christian People's Party earlier in ours. That's a promise, because in a number of these areas, we can hope to see a revitalization of development policy and a more active government, if there's a government change. Finally, in this article, let me say that this is the last article I have on foreign or development policy from the Parliament's Chair, because I'm going to meet the Control Committee, as usual, I was going to say, and someone else is going to take over the posts afterwards. But I'd like to use the chance to thank a lot of people for the cooperation. I've been sitting on the committee for two periods. I have also had the pleasure of working on the issues at the Prime Minister's office, as Minister for the Environment and in other roles, and it has been a great privilege to work with Norwegian foreign and development policy in those years. I have collaborated with very competent foreign ministers – different, but competent, we are lucky in Norway – with very different but also very competent committee leaders, and a set of competent, central and very cozy politicians in two foreign committees, a couple of them even for two periods. I thank you for that. Anyway, the most I want to use is the chance to praise from up here, someone we don't talk about so often from here, that's the amazingly good office we have in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, here on the Stortinget and in the outer floor. The concept of faceless bureaucrats has sometimes been used as a deterrent. It could not be removed from the truth. Let me remind you what people actually do: they conducted climate negotiations against Paris on behalf of Norway, they negotiated peace in Colombia, they led huge rainforest campaigns that can help change the world, they work with great health and education efforts in the billions of classes internationally, they control the use of money in Norad, they work to resolve the Palestine/Israel conflict, and they are committee secretaries. They've taught me an enormous amount, many of these capable people, and we're lucky to have so competent employees to run our foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2169	First to Bård Vegar Solhjell: Thank you for nice words both to the committee, to the officials and to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I think everyone agrees that we can return that compliment to him. There are several important members of the Foreign Affairs Committee who have chosen not to re-elect, but who I hope to see in the societal debate on both development policy and foreign and security policy in the years to come. Development policy – now on the agenda – is about achieving results, but it is also about achieving results by taking initiatives. During this period, Norway has taken international leadership in raising education. We have doubled the focus on education – not least on girls’ rights to education and women’s rights in general. But the Norwegian initiative has not only caused us to double our investment, it has also helped to reverse a trend internationally, where over the last 15 years we have seen a decline in investment in education. There is now a commitment to education to reach hundreds of millions of children who do not have access to quality education. It shows that it benefits from development policy, just as the previous government took important initiatives in health and vaccinations, where private partners were also brought with them, in order to bring about catalytic developments in this way, is important. We have also seen major humanitarian crises in this period. The end of the worst humanitarian disaster in the 21st century since World War II, near Europe through Syria, is almost incomprehensible – and the fact that this war is still going on, that the Security Council has not agreed on solutions. This is why Norway took an important initiative here as well. Our Prime Minister initiated a donor country conference for Syria that contributed to giving more money to Syria humanitarianly than at any other UN conference in the history of the United Nations. It shows that it's useful. The main objective of Norwegian development policy is to combat poverty. Development policy should alleviate distress and save lives, and it should address the reasons why more than 1 billion people still live below the poverty line. Never before has development policy been more closely linked to foreign policy than it is today. It makes very little sense to talk about development policies as being isolated from other policies. It is also at the heart of the new sustainability goals – which several representatives have been involved in. The sustainability objectives provide a new perspective on international development cooperation. They are universal and commit us all. The achievement of the sustainability objectives must not be reduced to a mere discussion of assistance. We are also required to open up our markets to exports from the least developed countries and also from middle-income countries: it is about trade, governance, investment, jobs, inclusive growth, environment and not least climate – acknowledge that no one can come from outside and create a state, a democracy, or eliminate poverty, but we can contribute. That is why development policy is so important. We need to pursue a development policy that takes account of changes in the world, and we need to use the assistance in combination with other instruments to provide the best possible effect. Of course – as I was told – we must also respond to the situation in the areas from West Africa via Sahel and Middle East to Afghanistan, but we also have a responsibility to secure areas and to be a partner for countries in our vicinity. I am pleased that the representative of Elvestuen mentioned Tunisia. In Tunisia, which has a very fragile democracy, it's 40 pst. youth unemployment. Nearly half of the young people go without a job. We'll open an embassy in Tunis next year, and we'll step up the assistance. And of course, you can question whether they're poor enough. I'm going to tell you that if they don't manage to create opportunities for these young people in this fragile democracy, it quickly becomes a very vulnerable country, which can end up as a failed state.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2191	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2196	I am very pleased that the Foreign Minister took up Tunisia as an important partner in North Africa both in the matter of road choices and also in the last place, in his speech. Like the representative Ola Elvestuen, I would also like to stress that it is absolutely vital for the stability of the region that we have a democratic Tunisia, but also a Tunisia with growth and development. The Foreign Minister himself mentioned the alarming news that it is now actually 40 pst. youth unemployment in the country. My question is: will the Foreign Minister increase targeted assistance to Tunisia, for example. to education and work?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2201	The short answer to that is yes. I would also like to commend the representative Nybakk for having contributed to increased searchlights on the situation in Tunisia. The representative has on several occasions invited me to actually go there and meet the different parties. The cooperation between workers and employers that we saw in Tunisia, which also resulted in the Nobel Peace Prize, is an inspiration for how to get together and work out of poverty in a society where there can potentially be major internal contradictions. This fragile democracy is the only democracy that now actually remains after the Arab spring, and I think we have an obligation to support this, because it can easily end in total chaos in Tunisia if you don't manage to create jobs and opportunities for these young people. That's why we're also opening an embassy in Tunis next year, and now we just have to identify good development programmes in terms of work, inclusive growth and knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2208	It's very important what the Foreign Minister is now saying. I would also like to add that Tunisia is next to a rather unstable country, Libya, and that there are also refugees across the border from Libya. One of the most dangerous things in a skirted democracy, in a region like Tunisia, are the angry young men who can recruit to ISIL and travel across the Mediterranean. Unfortunately, we are getting alarming signals and information that some of these angry young men are now recruiting for ISIL, and I think it is quite important both to ensure this brittle democracy and also to ensure education and work. What has impressed me most about Tunisia was the constitution they managed to get in connection with getting the Nobel Peace Prize.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2215	The representative Nybakk is quite right that when you experience a situation in which many young people are educated, but 40 pst. Not getting a job, the recruitment of violent extremism is quite dangerous. Tunisia, unfortunately, is one of the countries from which we have seen most foreign fighters move into the conflicts in Syria and Iraq. More than 2,000 have entered this conflict area, many of which have returned to Tunisia. So we have to help them with this. Then they're in an asymmetric refugee situation, as the representative also said, by the hundreds of thousands of Libyans have come to Tunisia, so they also have to deal with this. This is a situation that Jordan and Lebanon have also experienced. They say this is middle-income country, so we're not going to help them, but when Lebanon with a population of a little over 4 million gets 1.5 million refugees into it from Syria, it's clear that we're going to set up. It can't be that we use as an argument that they're not poor enough, when they're completely on the verge of breaking up as a society. That's where Norway's gonna help.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2222	The Christian People's Party is pleased that there is broad agreement on development policy, and I believe that the Council of State is responsible too. It's natural, however, to challenge him on any of the things that we haven't completely agreed on, but that's a plurality that matters. We are certain that we should have a concentration, and we are certain that it is also good to bring down the number of aid agreements. But good development policy must not be affected. That is why I would just challenge the Council of State that the reduction in the number of aid agreements does not lead to the loss of a good development project. So my question is simple: does the Council of State just take the important signal to the Department, and not least to Norad, as it is with the operational responsibility for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2229	Thank you for the question. There are many signals, and one of the signals that we have received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and not least through various evaluations, is that operating with over 6 500 different aid agreements, as we did when I took over responsibility in 2013, is an excessive number that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs manages to follow up this properly. It is better to focus on fewer projects. Then you can also evaluate it better, and you have more capacity to follow up. Norway is a major aid operator, but 6 500 aid agreements were probably mostly made, to say the least. Now we're down to a number around 4,000, and if the Storting thinks it's a number that's acceptable, I'll take note of it. I probably wanted to simplify it a little bit further. But one must not reduce the good projects, it is those projects that do not keep goals, that must be reduced; one must not pour out the child with the bath water. So I'm taking it with me in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2236	Undernourishment is a cause behind almost half of all child deaths under five years of age. It has great consequences for the families that happen, but also at the social level. There are figures that show that, for example: in Malawi, a loss of 10 pst. of the gross national budget, and many of those falling from it, are young people between zero and five years of age. This leads to poor productivity and poor economic growth. Will the Council of State address this area and establish a strategy and an action plan for food security and nutrition, possibly establishing a programme? We have Fish for Development, Oil for Development, so why not an agricultural development?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2243	The representative is quite right that if children are undernourished, their development will be greatly affected. It goes on growth, not just on height, but on the whole evolution, of brain and of other very important body functions. This, I think, is a sub-reported area, and it's done too little within this. The challenge for Norway is that we are heavy in health, we are heavy in climate and environment, we are heavy in education, women, equality, human rights and private sector action. It has been a wish from Stortinget that we should spread less and concentrate more on the thematic. But I agree with the representative that we have to look at this particular issue, because I think it is awful with children who are undernourished. They have no future options, because they lost the opportunity when they were three to four years old. So we're going to look at this, for example. in cooperation with the World Bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2252	Then I'd like to ask a follow-up question. Today's setting refers to decisions taken when we deal with the Christian People's Party's excellent private legislative proposals relating to development policy, where food security was also given much more weight. In its current setting, a multiple has referred to that decision and says that one will strengthen it. Then it may be of interest to right how the Council of State views it and how it will follow up the plural comment in today's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2257	As I said in conclusion, I think we have under-reporting of the consequences of malnutrition in children. How to meet it in a more active way is, of course, something we should look at, also in cooperation with others. Norfund has an important element in this by investing with others in small-scale agricultural production, and the whole value chain. We also cooperate with many Norwegian organisations that operate in this area with food security. We should also use the cash principle more related to humanitarian aid, so that we don't send in a lot of food, but then we really destroy local food production. This must also be seen in the context of the other Norwegian initiatives. It doesn't have to be a Norwegian bet, it could be that we, for example. contributes more to the World Bank's investment here. So we're going to go through it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2265	As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, Norway is a very large aid and development actor, but the sovereign greatest is still, or has been, the United States. But with the "American First" idea presented by President Trump, it is put up to dramatic cuts in the proposals he has made. It is good that Norway has supported it while filling the void for reproductive health. Climate action will also need to contribute more strongly in the years ahead. My question is: with such great changes and a retreat, how does the Minister for Foreign Affairs really see that we should be able to fill that gap? How can we do that, and with whom? And how will that affect the rest of the aid and development? It's a big sum. It's a big deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2272	It could be tempting to answer with Macron's slogan 'Planet First', to put it this way. Now there are many so-called "checks and balances" embedded in the American system, so that the president and the administration can propose a budget, but usually there are major changes from Congress. I have also noticed that important representatives of the Republicans, such as John McCain and Lindsey Graham, two influential senators, have said that they will not be involved in cutting development, for this is also investment in stabilisation, in the fight against violent extremism, and all this. So first we see what's remaining, but in some core areas we've stepped up, for example. on reproductive health, where we see cut. I would also like to inform you that, in the context of the state budget for 2018, we will further escalate within reproductive health.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2281	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2286	The major discussion of development policy during this period took place through the treatment of the Christian People's Party's shadow message on development policy, road choices are value choices. Through the examination of subsequent drafts of representatives earlier in ours, a different majority than that on which this government has been founded. The same majority have also met in dealing with this big message in several areas. In the examination of the 2017 State budget, the Stortinget took a very important and historic decision. The government is asking for 1 pst to be set aside by the government. of gross national income for assistance in the annual budgets. The fact that this principle is now shattered by the bulk of the population makes it possible for us to end unnecessary annual rematches on the level of assistance. Attention may be paid to the quality, device and effective use of Norwegian means of assistance. Let there be no doubt: regardless of the outcome of the September elections, it is my clear expectation that the government in its 2018 draft budget will ensure that the development budget is at least 1 pst. of GNI. Something else will be a breach of Storting's decision. For a long time, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has expressed a desire to focus more on aid in and to vulnerable countries in unstable areas, in particular the Middle East, North Africa and Sahel. A priority for Norwegian aid to vulnerable countries will not only contribute positively to stabilisation in Europe's neighbourhood, but will also be an effective tool to combat poverty. The projection shows that an increasing proportion of the world’s poor in the years ahead will just be in vulnerable countries. However, relief activities in vulnerable countries also bring with them a number of dilemmas and the need for risk management. Successful efforts in vulnerable countries must be long-term, flexible and coordinated. And there's a need for close follow-up through presence on the ground -- that's a different assumption. That is why we need a thorough strategy and priority debate on Norwegian action in vulnerable countries. Chr. The Michelsen Institute has pointed out that the proportion of extremely poor in Tunisia is 2 pst., while the proportion of extremely poor in traditional recipient countries such as Malawi is 71 pst. This does not mean that it is wrong to operate with Norwegian assistance to Tunisia – the only remaining highlight of the Arab Spring – but we need more debate and anchoring on Norwegian policy towards vulnerable states. Therefore, it is unfortunate that the government’s long announced strategy for Norwegian efforts in vulnerable countries has not yet been presented. The size should be given an appropriate opportunity to discuss this important turn of Norwegian foreign and development policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2301	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2306	The planet is a community of fate, and the rich part of the world has a responsibility to help developing countries meet the basic needs of their population. Norway is a significant contributor to the work of the world community to achieve the 17 sustainability goals through various bilateral agreements and through the UN system. Enterprise development and job creation are one of several thematic areas in the Communication and are crucial for development and poverty reduction. The size of the population recently addressed the communication on seas in foreign and development policy. The importance of the sea as a source of food and new medicines for an increasing world population cannot be underestimated and the potential for sea-based jobs is high. The ‘Fish for Development’ programme shall contribute to poverty reduction through food security, sustainable management and economic activity. The programme is based on the three main pillars of research and education, management, laws, regulations and industrial development. At the recent UN Marine Conference, Norway received a prize from the UNESCO Maritime Commission for our knowledge and capabilities in marine research. Norway has developed legislation and regulations for sustainable maritime management and has taken global initiatives to combat fishing crime and to strengthen maritime law. This effort benefits developing countries, including: through the Nansen programme. An old Chinese saying is, give someone a fish, and he gets fed all day. Teach someone to fish, and he gets fed all his life. Norway has the best conditions for providing knowledge transfer and training in marine management a central place in our development policy. Since 1975, the Nansen programme and the research ships have been named after Fridtjof Nansen carried out resource monitoring staff in developing countries. New ‘Dr. Peace thief Nansen, baptized this spring, is the third ship in the row, and this is aid at its best. Norway provides a top-notch modern research ship, which is commissioned via the FAO, where fisheries and aquaculture are given an important place because marine resources will play a central role in the world's food supply ahead, and because fishing can provide valuable jobs in developing countries as well. The demand for the services of the Norwegian ship is so high that the ship’s calendar is fully booked for a long time to come. It shows the need for such concrete fishing aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2323	I see that a majority of the committee points out that economic growth alone does not eradicate poverty and that it is important to combat inequality. I fully agree with that. The importance of inclusive growth is at the heart of the Committee's emphasis on the need for countries to have functioning tax systems and institutions in place to ensure that economic growth benefits the population and contributes to well-being. The thematic areas of health, education and business development go hand in hand with sustainable development in and by poor countries. Access to reasonable health services to all, including sexual and reproductive rights, is central, and I am pleased to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs say that this should also be strengthened. It is good that Norway continues to increase its efforts for global health. This is a prerequisite for another important good, namely good basic education for all, with special emphasis on women and girls, which this government has promised. The reason why there is so much importance to the development of nutrition is that I see that there are now several countries where the attention to the education of girls has begun to be effective. But then it is so important that there are jobs to which they are qualified, at the other end. If it doesn't, there's a danger that we'll have a shift in the attitude to the need to give girls schooling. One of the most important consequences of girls going to school is that we see that it often reduces the crime of child marriage, and that girls who are still children also give birth. I am very pleased that the Secretary of State responded so quickly to the critical reduction in support for organisations for sexual and reproductive rights in the United States. This Communication underlines that Norway should focus on the thematic and geographical areas in which Norway can make the most difference. As one of the world's most equal countries, and as the second best on LHBT rights in Europe, I believe that Norway has a duty here to take responsibility for precisely equality, LHBT, sexual and reproductive rights. Because if we don't, there are very few others who do. I think that is also a good development policy. Take a country like Malawi, where the population has gone from 9 million to 17 million in less than ten years. Without sexual and reproductive rights and without making the girls go to school, it will be difficult to provide enough economic growth or assistance to build roads, schools and hospitals enough to keep track of population growth. I see that a majority in the Committee believes that poverty orientation, not self-interest, should be taken into account in the choice of priority partner countries, and poverty reduction is also the objective. But I want to quote former foreign minister Jonas Gahr Støre, who said in 2009: ‘We will pursue an active foreign policy that focuses on Norwegian interests and takes on a global responsibility. In this way, we can secure our own society — and contribute to creating security and freedom for others.’ Some believe that we need more precise criteria in the choice of priority partner countries. I don't necessarily mean that, but it's in Norwegian interest to ensure peace and freedom for others, because we do that, we guarantee peace and freedom for ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2341	It is not unusual that it is the rapporteur's prerogative to be allowed to thank for the debate and get the last words. Now I saw that there was someone in the sieve and tricked and got to sneak in after me, but I would nevertheless thank you for the debate. It has been good and broad, which was also the invitation from the foreign minister and the government. This was the overall communication based on the UN – or the world – sustainability objectives, which referred to the broader development policy. However, this foreign minister has been very active also in the field of development, and there have been several communications to the Stortinge to describe parts of development policy during the current major period: report. St. 25 for 2013–2014, Development Training, Report. St. 10 for 2014–2015, Possibilities for all – human rights as objectives and means of foreign and development policy, Report. St. 35 for 2014–2015, Together about the job, Meld. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. St. 37 for 2014–2015, Global Security Challenges in Foreign Policy. With this communication, therefore, the government wants to provide a broader presentation of development policy, which takes into account the elements of the thematic messages that I have now mentioned, and which make it possible for us to have a very active and broad debate in the field of development during this process of enlargement. I'm glad. The debate today has also been good, good – and broad, as I said – with many issues affected. There might have been more, we would have had even more time. Agriculture and food security have been mentioned, and I would also like to remind you that a unanimous committee on the matter refers to agriculture and food security as part of the efforts for business development and job creation, as well as for climate action. The majority in sub-Saharan Africa still live on agriculture, and there is no doubt that there is a need to focus on this area. Then a majority in the committee also says that in recent years there has been an increased effort for climate-smart agriculture and food security in crisis situations. It is important to continue from both an economic development and an climate perspective. The large expected population growth in poor countries that we talked about here earlier today makes it important to contribute to raising agricultural productivity, so that there will be enough food production in the years to come. I would also like to mention a message that the Minister for Foreign Affairs made earlier, namely Report. St. 22 for 2016-2017, Sea of Foreign Affairs and Development Policy, which we have just discussed in this Chamber. The sea is also a source of food, which we Norwegians have known all year long. Finally, let me point to something that is important for the whole committee. These are the cross-cutting concerns of the entire Norwegian development policy and assistance, which are important for sustainable development and poverty reduction, human rights, women's rights and equality, climate and environment, and anti-corruption.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2354	It was not intended to take the honour of the case rapporteur here. I didn't register that there's a usage of it, I pressed it when I had something to say. I reacted a little to the committee leader Anniken Huitfeldt's focus on 1 pst, and she thought we should agree on that. If the aid is so successful, why not 2 pst? Why do we have to save $8,000 billion? kr in State pension funds abroad when we can take 2 pst. and rescue even more people out of poverty? I wonder about that a little bit. Why not 5 pst.? Otherwise it's quite selfish. It may well be that in aid policy we really praise ourselves more than being very busy saving very many people out of poverty. We look at ourselves and feel a little better as we give away some, please, of what we have. You talk about lifting people out of poverty. If you see where people are promised out of poverty – that is, China, India, the countries that really matter, where there are hundreds of millions who are promised out of poverty – it is not because of aid. We're trying to argue that there is aid, but it's about trade and it's about governance, democracy to a large extent, trade with other countries, production and attempts to create a better life. That's what gets people out of poverty first and foremost. I don't think we should say all the time that it's aid that makes it happen. Of course, assistance can help people survive, but it's short-sighted, if you don't want them to survive on their own. It's just a way of measuring assistance, and it's those who become independent of assistance. If more and more people become dependent on assistance because of population growth, it will not help much. It gives us a good conscience, but it does little to help global development and the fight against poverty. I have to say that when people say that combating climate change should be a central objective of our aid policy, I wonder why people accept – or not help to bring down – the population growth in the world, which will go from 7 to 10 billion people by 2050. Nigeria's population will increase from 108 million to 400 million by 2050. They're basically poor people. In addition, there is terrorism in these countries. And if you think that climate change is the most important thing, you would think that 3 billion people who you want to lift out of poverty would create an incredible amount of CO2 and other things in the world that would destroy the climate. So the best thing would be to limit population growth. That would be the very best thing for our own conscience, but also for the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2365	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2381	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2388	First of all, I would like to commend the representative and member of the Foreign and Defence Committee, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, to raise this question and put it on the agenda. I must also admit that I had not expected a proposal to come from that point of view, but it is well and good – and it is interesting to be the rapporteur on this matter. It is appropriate to stress that the proposal for a representative is concerned with whether Norway’s involvement in the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians should be subject to a comprehensive and independent evaluation, and not to the conflict itself. We know that all parties have different views on the conflict and that we have discussed the conflict in previous budgetary positions and debates. With regard to Norway’s long-term commitment to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, it has been shown that there is a broad consensus on that on the Storting. Norway has had the main objective of contributing to a two-state solution, where Israel and a Palestinian State live side by side within mutually recognised borders and with satisfactory security in both countries. The Committee expresses its concern at the state of play in the peace process, but stresses that the parties themselves are responsible for finding a peaceful solution to the conflict. It requires both sides. Norway today has great confidence in both sides, and it is unanimous in the Committee that it is very important to have a good relationship with both parties if Norway is to play a constructive role in the future. As far as the proposal is concerned, the vast majority of the Committee does not entirely agree that it is needed now. The Committee refers to letters from Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende, dated 15 May 2017, pointing out that a number of evaluations have been carried out over several years on various aspects of Norwegian involvement in Israel and Palestine. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also points out that the Government: ‘has an ongoing dialogue with the Stortinget on the Norwegian policy mechanism and engagement with Israel and Palestine’. We have also noticed that budget support for the Palestinian self-government is currently being reviewed. The Committee unanimously notes that regular professional evaluations by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Norad are important for Norway to continue to make constructive contributions to a peaceful settlement of the conflict. Furthermore, I am particularly pleased that everyone in the Committee stresses the importance of good management of Norwegian aid and that it is assured that none of the funds Go to the purpose of undermining peaceful coexistence contributes to increased voltage level contributes to the distrust of the parties disappears in corruption Both the Palestinians and Israel believe that the donor country group AHLC is necessary and support Norway’s leadership. I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that a unanimous committee stresses that the donor country group has contributed to the building of Palestinian state institutions, and several international actors, such as the UN, the World Bank and the IMF, believe that the Palestinian self-government authorities are prepared to govern a state when a peace agreement between the parties is in place. A large majority of the committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, believes it is important to have a good bilateral relationship with Israel. In recent years, we have seen a significant increase in trade and cooperation in various areas, including in the petroleum sector, technology and innovation. It's in Norway's interest. Although the draft representative does not get a majority and only receives the SV's own votes in the committee, I would say that a majority in the committee will meet Solhjell a little. A majority consisting of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left agree on a general basis that the government should regularly review and evaluate key areas of Norwegian foreign and development policy, such as: Norwegian policy towards Israel and the Palestinian self-government authorities. Such a review of objectives, instruments and alliances should also involve external expert communities. However, this majority argues that it is itself responsible at all times for initiating evaluations and reviews of foreign policy and development policy. I see that time is running out, but I would like to end by thanking the committee for the work. I am very grateful for the unanimity and broad agreement that continuous evaluations of various aspects of Norwegian involvement in Israel and the Palestinian territories are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2436	I think we all feel some kind of powerlessness about the fact that it does not seem possible to have movement in the struggle to resolve the conflict between Israel and Palestine according to the optimism created by the Oslo agreement. Several U.S. presidents have since set out to resolve this conflict, get to a peace agreement and create a Palestinian state – but in vain. As you can see, new thoughts, ideas and initiatives to turn even more stones into these endeavors are welcome. It is in this picture that I understand the representative proposal from SV. When the Foreign Affairs Committee visited Palestine and Israel in the previous period, we met the Palestinian President, Abbas. He told me how close they've been to an agreement. It was actually a consensus on all issues of war, refugees, borders, Jerusalem. But some stumble threads remained, and the opportunity was lost. Norway has played a very special role in the attempts to lay the foundations for a peace agreement as head of the donor country group. It has made it necessary for changing governments to review our policies towards the parties to this conflict. At the same time, however, it has laid the foundations and framework for our political freedom in this matter. We have also had to take care of this role, including: to maintain the necessary trust of both parties. Therefore, we believe it is more appropriate to follow the practice that has been followed, a more continuous review of our policies towards Israel and Palestine, both in terms of our development contributions and in terms of the parties and the donor country group. But 50 years after the six-day war, which left the framework for the conflict in which the parties are still trapped, we have to recognise that it seems impossible to find means that push the parties to a solution from outside. It's the parties themselves that have to find a way to solve the Georgian knot. I believe that that way must stop the expansion of settlements on Palestinian land, end the occupation and end the threats to Israel from Gaza.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2449	An essential feature of the long-term Norwegian involvement in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict has been the broad consensus here in the Storting, not least the continuity between changing governments. The government is pursuing a balanced Middle East policy. Norway is seen by both Palestinians and Israelis as a valuable partner — both in dealing with the conflict between them and in working for a political solution to the conflict. Both the United Nations and the Hague International Court of Justice have established that the areas under Israel’s control during the 1967 war are occupied and that the settlement policy is thus contrary to international law. There is cross-political agreement in Norway that the Palestinian people have the right to self-determination. The extension of settlements on the part of Israel and the use of violence and terrorism on the Palestinian side as political instruments undermine respect for international law and hamper the peace process. A two-state solution whereby Palestinians and Israelis can live side by side within internationally recognised borders with sufficient security is the only way to achieve lasting peace between the parties. The government has not gone for a unilateral Norwegian recognition of a Palestinian state, as opposed to Sweden. Pure symbolisms like this do not bring us closer to an actual solution to the conflict, rather to the contrary. The efforts to strengthen the Palestinian economy now appear to be the most effective contribution to rescuing the two-state solution. Norway’s leadership in the donor country group is highly valued by the Palestinians as well as by Israel. It also has broad support and upliftment from both Western and Arab countries. The government attaches great importance to maintaining a good relationship with both parties in the conflict. In this way, we ensure that Norway can continue to play a constructive role in the future. Norway was among the initiators and co-organisers of an international donor conference for Gaza in 2014. In the role of head of the donor country group, Norway has among others: organised for negotiations which resolved the conflict over the electricity liability of Palestinian self-government authorities to Israel. The donor country group is therefore perceived by both parties as a very relevant forum for discussing and addressing challenges between them. The donor country group follows an international reporting regime, which has contributed to better follow-up of the Palestinian economy and better management of the means of assistance. These are very important measures to combat corruption. Budgetary support to the Palestinian self-government authorities is currently subject to review. The Government has tightened up its practice and does not support organisations or projects which have boycotts, disinvestment and penalties as their primary purpose. Nor is Norwegian aid paid to Palestinian prisoners. It is not appropriate to go in for a boycott of Israel. Boikott creates distances, not dialogue. The government has taken a great deal of distance from LO's decision on boycott. Norway has frozen all support, both to the Palestinian Election Commission and to the UN Women in the Palestinian territories, after the Women's Centre was named after a Palestinian terrorist. Only when the logo of the Norwegian Representation Office has been removed from the building and the funds that have gone to the centre have been repaid is it relevant to make new agreements with the two organisations. The government is further developing bilateral relations with Israel. In 2014, Israel’s President Norway, the first state visit from Israel to Norway, ever visited. The Government has concluded a long-term commitment agreement with Israel on research and industrial cooperation. An action plan to combat antisemitism has been adopted by the government. Work against hateful expressions and anti-Semitism is an objective of Norwegian assistance to civil society organisations through Norad. Under this government, Norway has also refrained from keeping posts under the agenda item. 7 of the UN Human Rights Council, where Israel is treated differently from other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2470	The representative of Solhjell has presented an interesting proposal for a holistic and independent evaluation of Norwegian policies towards Israel and Palestine. It is important that we run through both foreign and development policy instruments in Norwegian policy vis-à-vis just Israel and Palestine. Let me therefore thank the representative, Mr Solhell, for a good initiative to discuss how best to contribute to a lasting peace agreement, based on a two-state solution that provides security and a basis for good neighbourliness. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we have noticed that the Minister of Foreign Affairs in his letter of reply to the Committee does not recommend an evaluation in the form proposed by SV. The large majority in the Committee also support the proposal as it stands and the case-speaker did well. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) believes that the government should review and evaluate at regular intervals key areas of Norwegian foreign and development policy, including in relation to Israel and Palestine. The old and unresolved conflict is important to resolve. A peace agreement needs a better and a safer future, not only for Israelis and Palestinians, but for the whole region. President Clinton actively tried to broker a peace settlement. Unfortunately, the goal was not reached, and the ratio between the two was lower after the second intifada. The mutual trust needed to succeed in negotiations is a strong weakness. It provides a poor negotiating climate and weakens the basis for a successful peace process. It is no better if the parties focus more on unilateral actions and polarization. I've had enough of that today. The Christian People's Party believes that the demand for boycott of Israel does not produce a peaceful solution. On the contrary, it will provide a peaceful solution. That's why I'm glad the great majority in the committee says it's important to have a good bilateral relationship with Israel. In recent years, we have seen a significant increase in trade and cooperation in different areas, including: in the petroleum sector, technology and innovation. This is in Norway's interest. So that's what the plural says. We believe it is important that Norway has a good relationship both with Israel and with Palestinian self-government. At the same time, we must be able to say clearly whether we believe that matters and actions are not constructive. This applies to both parties, not least Palestinian-led militant groups, who have repeatedly seen acts of terror that have made peace negotiations difficult. Hamas and other extreme groups have a very long history of sin in this area. When Hamas activists kill some Jewish guys and Israeli extremists answer by killing a Palestinian good, a recipe for extra polarization is seen: more hate and more choice. In Europe, we have seen a number of tragic acts of terrorism in the form of photocopies and knife drops in recent times. Such a propensity to increase fear and hatred. Israel has experienced the same thing. The result is that trust is broken, and there is no peace. Many Israelis and Palestinians want a peace solution. They think that too many peace opportunities have been played out. They're fortifying our support, not extremists. They always seek home by killing some of the others. In practice, peace is their hope of killing. Norway must therefore work consistently for justice, reconciliation and peace in the Middle East. In recent years, the unresolved conflict between Israel and the Palestinians has come under the shadow of other conflicts. It applies not least to the struggle that the region is now experiencing with the terrorist regime of the so-called Islamic State, IS, or ISIL, but also to the power struggle between regional powers, with Saudi Arabia and Iran on each side. The Middle East is therefore in deep crisis. Norway must contribute constructively where possible and work for a peace settlement between Israel and the Palestinians. It is a task that we actively must contribute to promoting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2487	I'm doing a short and temporary comeback on the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his nice words, which are to be transferred to the author of the motion for a resolution. Our arrangement of policy towards Israel and Palestine bears a little mark on the one hand stability, predictability and much to be proud of. On the other hand, I get a little feeling that we're all standing and saying that this is good, and then we don't ask ourselves if it really works. Do we really get what we were after, for example. when the Oslo Agreement was concluded? When Espen Barth Eide was Minister for Foreign Affairs, he was very clear that a clear time must be set for carrying out a so-called ‘stocktaking’, i.e. accounting for the work of the Oslo agreement in general, and with the donor country group in particular. It was entirely in place, because in view of the democratic development in Palestine and the political development in Israel, we risk, through our actions and best intentions, in the worst case, contributing to the cementing of a situation that is locking the Palestinians into impunity and locking Israel into an increasingly morally unacceptable role. There we have, on the one hand, a Palestine that is not de facto a state of its own, and which does not de facto have a free population, and, on the other hand, an Israel that actively sabotages the attempts to achieve it, for domestic political, tactical reasons, the political actors internally in Israel. The solution to this conflict lies within the political life of Israel and Palestine. Then we have to be sure that the political instruments we use work as intended. Just because we lead the donor country group, we have a responsibility to think about it. There has also been the support of the professional team for our proposal. Mr. Brende had John Kerry visiting this week, where he talked about the need to think new in the peace diplomacy. That's what I'm going to end up with. But that the Foreign Minister and the majority in Stortinget then choose to say no to actually evaluate one of the greatest achievements of Norwegian peace diplomacy over time, I find more strange. After all, we have invested a significant amount of political prestige in our work in the Middle East. It could also mean that we are not completely unhindered in our analysis of whether this has worked. No one could imagine when the Oslo agreement was concluded, that we were still going to be where we are now, more than 20 years later. It not only calls for evaluation, it also calls for a degree of humility on the part of the Storting, both of us who belong to the more Palestine-oriented wing of the Storing, and of Israel-friends of the Storing. Just as I cannot say at all comfortable with the democratic development of Palestine and the Abbas regime, Knut Arild Hareide cannot be comfortable with the political development of Israel, with the rhetorical Netanyahu using, and the sabotage of the Israeli government, which in practice impedes a future peace agreement, through the construction of ever-new settlements. There Knut Arild Hareide and I have something in common: creating a platform for an honest debate on Norwegian Middle East policy. I think the whole Storting thing would have been worth it, no matter what approach you have in this debate. In 2013, I visited young people in Gaza. It was young activists and bloggers. Here in Norway we associate bloggers with questionable sponsorship agreements and not necessarily the most important questions in life. Being a blogger at Gaza is deadly. They can be thrown into prison, they can be beaten up and, in the worst case, killed. I talked to young people locked up between Hamas’ religious iron regime on one side and the Israeli military power on the other. We have to ask ourselves the question: have we set up our policy towards Israel and Palestine in a way that gives these young people a greater hope of living in freedom, or the status quo? I suspect the Storting will not be able to answer that question. And if we're not able to answer that, it's high time for evaluation, precisely because we lead the donor country group, and precisely because there's so strong Norwegian political prestige in the current international regime for how to deal with the Middle East conflict. I'll take up the suggestion from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2502	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2507	The overall objective of Norwegian involvement in Israel and Palestine is to create conditions for a two-state solution so that Palestinians and Israelis can live side by side within internationally recognised borders with sufficient security. It is in Norway's interest to continue efforts to stabilise the Palestinian State institutions, pending a lasting peace agreement. This also has a regional dimension, as a solution to this conflict could have a positive impact on overall regional stability. There are complex reasons why there has been no progress in the political process of resolving the outstanding issues between the parties, including borders, Jerusalem's status, security and refugee issues. The parties to the conflict have not been willing to open negotiations to resolve the conflict following the termination of the US peace initiative in spring 2014. The fact that the Trump administration is now showing a willingness to launch a negotiation process is therefore welcomed by a majority of donors and regional actors. At the same time, it's clear that the United States will be totally dependent on the parties. It is those who bear the primary responsibility to resolve the conflict. Norway has close dialogue with the United States on how the donor country group, AHLC, can support any negotiating initiative. It is still too early to assess how the further process will proceed, but there is at present sufficient movement in this area that we should now focus on how we can best contribute to a possible round of negotiations. So the litmus test for this commitment from Norway is also: what are the parties themselves saying? We had a donor country group meeting a few months ago in Brussels, where High Representative Federica Mogherini and I were a host, where Finance Minister Bishara, from PA, attended, where Minister at the Prime Minister's office in Israel attended, and where the new Special Envoy of Donald Trump, Jason Greenblatt, also attended. All of these said that the work of the donor country group is important, not least to maintain the Palestinian institutions. And if you look at the situation also on the West Bank: those of us who traveled there at the end of the 1980s, for example. Ramallah, where there were no indications of Palestinian institutions, where we saw a poverty that marked society strongly, sees that since the Oslo Agreement there has been a development. There are Palestinian institutions there, it's the Prime Minister's office, it's the President's office, there's been a lot of happening in education, development and investment. What remains is a final agreement on a two-state solution, and when the parties believe that this work is important, all parties believe that this is important, I also believe – and I believe – that we have a responsibility to continue this. However, at the moment the parties had said to us that they no longer think this is important; they do not think Norway should be involved in this, there would also have been a stronger basis for going into ourselves and assessing whether this makes sense. I believe that through the donor country group, we have also established a robust reporting system in which the World Bank, the IMF and the UN, respectively, report regularly to the half-yearly meetings. This regular reporting has contributed to the systematic monitoring and follow-up of the Palestinian administration and to the reinforced management of the assistance funds. A number of evaluations have been carried out in recent years on various aspects of Norwegian involvement in Israel and Palestine. Mid-term and final reviews of projects and programmes are an integral part of the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Norad. They constitute an important source of information on the results of Norwegian assistance and are an important basis for decisions on adjustments and continuations. In addition, the National Audit Office, which is not unknown to this Chamber, has also reviewed Norwegian assistance to the Palestinian territories in several rounds, by 2014, and that report is available to the public. I also point out that the government has an ongoing dialogue with the Stortinget about the Norwegian involvement in Israel and Palestine in the budgetary negotiations and the permanent foreign policy statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2524	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2529	One of the recurring issues related to initiating negotiations and finding solutions is the settlements and expansion of settlements. One thing is that you confiscate Palestinian land, but you also do a dent of what is to be the foundation of your own Palestinian state. Many of the presidents of the United States who have taken the lead in resolving the conflict have also pointed out and expected a halt in Israeli settlement activity, yes, even Trump's administration has done so. So the question is, to what extent is the issue discussed and repeated in the donor country group’s meetings, and what is the response from the Israeli side to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2535	There is no doubt that if a country takes an area, it is not possible to settle with its own inhabitants inside this area. It is contrary to international law, and therefore these settlements are incompatible with international law. Then, in the context of various negotiations, including from the Oslo Agreement and other rounds of negotiations, it has been possible to look at these areas, and then you can switch countries. In this way you can also redefine some of this landscape. But one cannot escape the fact that the Israeli settlements, which are incompatible with international law, which are far from what must constitute the territory of a future Palestinian state, must be withdrawn. We make this very clear to Israel, and there is also a debate in Israel about this. But as the representative also said, the Trump administration has been very clear on this and said that they absolutely do not want any new settlements or extensions, and you have to think about any negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2542	I just need a little clarification: I almost have to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if he interprets the proposal for an independent evaluation of Norway's efforts towards Israel and Palestine as an active desire to leave the two-state trail, because the foreign minister's posts could almost bear the mark of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2547	The most natural thing is that the proposer should explain what is in the proposal. But I have not seen the proposal as that SV had any desire to leave the two-state trail. On the contrary, I feel that SV is very concerned about it, and so are we. What I explained is that I believe that there is something that has been discussed in Norwegian development policy, it is this support through the donor country group. However, there is no secret that it has been thought that Norway should stop this work within the donor country group, those who have been critical of this because no two-state solution has been established, and therefore the time is ripe to end this. I don't belong to them. I believe that we need to maintain this work, and I believe that it has also been well revised, most recently with the review of the Riksrevision in 2014 and many other evaluations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2554	It was good to hear the foreign minister think loudly. He landed quite right too, considering our intention of the proposal. But then the question of extending this is the following: More here in the Chamber, including the Minister for Foreign Affairs himself, has underlined that we have carried out a number of audits and evaluations of the different components of our Middle East effort. But what this proposal is all about is a broader, larger, and professionally independent review of whether our overall policy has worked according to purpose after so many years. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs feel confident that the broad lines of Norwegian Middle East policy are based on as good professional advice and assessments as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2561	This is also a political question, and perhaps a political question first and foremost: does Norway want the pressure for a two-state solution to be maintained? Do we wish when the Palestinians want it, to maintain support for the state institutions they have built in Ramallah? After all, we could evaluate all parts of Norwegian development policy all the time. It goes without saying that we could have a broad review in all areas. Then we could employ even more people in the National Audit Office or other investigative bodies. I believe that Norwegian Middle East policy is working. I believe that there could be a question mark about our commitment and our device through the donor country group if we were to now carry out a broad review of this, which would also be seen on the basis and foundation of it. I believe that this works, it's an important political signal, and what SV has suggested, starting to question through such an independent professional evaluation, would have created uncertainty about an important element of our foreign and development policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2568	Well, in a situation in which, on the one hand, a Palestinian state formation that is institutionally capable of carrying a state, but which gradually has more and more to go on democratically, and in which, on the other hand, a political development is virtually impossible to achieve a realistic solution to peace – and precisely since this is a political question: does the Foreign Minister feel sure that the policy we are pursuing and we are addressing as the leader of the donor country group actually facilitates an improvement in the situation? Or is there any possibility that today's approach helps to cement exactly the Georgian knot that the representative Svein Roald Hansen mentioned so well in his speech?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2573	I feel confident that our policy contributes to a continuous pressure on the establishment of a two-state solution. All parties say that the work done by Norway is important to keep this up too. As several representatives were involved, due to all other conflicts around the world, it has now been less focused on the establishment of a two-state solution and the situation of the Palestinians. I believe that this work also contributes to keeping the injustice that lies in the fact that a Palestinian State is not established on the international agenda. I also believe the representative in his own argument now indirectly points out that the SV questions and wants to investigate: is this an engagement that must necessarily be continued in its present form? I believe that we have good evidence of that. This is the wish. We should not create uncertainty about this. And the Palestinians could have carried their own state for many, many years. These institutions were ready a long time ago and should be established. But they won't be clear if we stop supporting them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2580	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2587	A member of the presidency looked at me instead and pointed at the clock. I'll take that hint and just make a short comment at the end. I would like to thank you for a good debate, but feel the need to point out one thing. There are several representatives in the Chamber who, with the very best intentions, have certainly referred to anti-Semitism in Europe and terrorist attacks against European Jews. I just want to warn you a little bit about putting European anti-Semitism, violence and terrorism against Jews in Europe in the context of the ongoing conflict in the Middle East. It cannot be put into context. It is not that antisemitism in Europe originates in Israel's occupation of Palestine. Antisemitism in Europe has far deeper roots and a completely different origin. We should be very careful, indirectly – and perhaps even without saying so – to feed the idea that the actions of a state in the Middle East justify any kind of attitude towards what is primarily a Norwegian minority, a French minority, a Belgian minority and a Danish minority. That's just what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2596	I really didn't intend to take the word, but I'll try to be very short. There are many who have spoken about the need for a two-state solution and what we can do to achieve it – with democratisation on the Palestinian side, which is necessary, while maintaining the principles towards the democratic state of Israel, which must maintain its position within secure borders. What I should say concerns two things. Norway has an important role to play as leader of the donor country group. We should keep doing that. We are a country that has great respect for both sides of the conflict. Then I want to mention another role that Norway has, and which is also an inheritance from the Oslo Agreement, namely Temporary International Presence in Hebron, which I have also had the pleasure of visiting. They're rarely in the news, but it's in the very role of reporting directly to the two parties. So they don't get much attention, but they still play an important role and get a lot of respect on both sides. This is an element of the position that Norway has and that we should definitely continue as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2605	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2621	In this proposition, 123 S for 2016-2017, the government asks for the Stortingen approval to launch five new investment projects. There are four new EBA projects: new aviation fuel and supply stock on Guards, different noise measures both inside and outside the base of the Ørland Aviation Station and new hangars for the F-35 aircraft in Orland. It is also not least the approval of the cost framework for a new large material project, namely the acquisition of four new submarines. In addition, there are two other issues asked for the approval of the Storting: multinational cooperation on multi-roll tank and transport aircraft and a change in the basic rule for the Voluntary Shooting Service. The Committee shall adopt a unanimous position on investments and no proposals shall be made in the case. The overall cost framework for the investments we are dealing with here today is over 45 billion. kr. In view of this, given the importance of investments to strengthen Norway's defence capabilities, I believe it is in place to spend some time going a little closer to individual projects. In 2006, Stortinget agreed to an agreement between Norway and the United States on the pre-storage of materials and strengthening of Norway. The supply of fuel is under that agreement one of Norway’s tasks. Guards have an important role, including: in the event of the receipt of allied forces. The planned work on Guards will require large quantities of aviation fuel, which sets high requirements for capacity and availability. As indicated in the proposal, it is necessary to improve the state and capacity of the installations for aviation fuels in Trandellag, both for the purpose of national preparedness and as a result of our alliance obligations. Different storage and location solutions have been evaluated, but since the fuel cannot be stored for a longer period of time, it is a good solution to enter into cooperation with civil aviation, where the Defence builds a tanker that can also supply fuel for the civil operation on the Guards. It is proposed to build a new installation in Muruvik in the municipality of Malvik and a fuel line from the Muruvik plant into the Værne air station. The total cost framework for the project is 309 million. kr. The government is also asking for approval to invest in new noise measures in Ørland. The expansion of Ørland Air Station as the main base for the F-35 aeroplanes involves a doubling of the activity with fighter aeroplanes compared to today, while the F-35 aeroplanes emit more noise than the F-16 aeroplanes. As a consequence of requirements both in the Working Environment Act and in the Municipal Regulatory Plan, it is necessary to implement noise abatement measures both on the Defence’s own building mass inside the Ørland Air Station and on civil property in the noise zones outside the base area itself. The total cost framework for actions on the Defence’s own buildings, redemption and disposal, demolition or securing of buildings outside the base amounts to 1538 million. kr. In a short time, the first F-35 will land on Norwegian soil. It is an investment that will give the entire Norwegian defence a huge operational boost. The decision to lay the main base for the flights to Örland was taken by the Stortinget in 2012, and in 2014 the first investments started. It is a giant plant that rises in the OR and the work is on the way. The station is getting ready to receive the first new F-35 aircraft in November this year. The most recent construction project to be carried out in Ørland is the construction of new hangars. It is proposed to build 12 hangars, each with space for two F-35 fighter planes. A compact solution has been chosen, with the location of the hangars at a short distance from the maintenance and maintenance buildings. This optimises the day-to-day operation and maintenance of the fighter aeroplanes. Hangars must be completed by spring 2020 at the latest to switch from F-16 to F-35 as planned. I Prop. 73 S for 2011–2012 were the assumptions that the fighter aircraft base would only meet the requirements for peacekeeping. This has changed along the way. In the current long-term plan, it was decided that aircraft bases to be used for crisis and armed conflict should be provided with increased protection and protection against attacks compared to the assumptions in the previous long-term plan. With the short alert time now being taken into account, it is important that the base is designed to function as a fully-fledged base in peace, crisis and war from the very first day. An external quality assurance of the project has been carried out and its results underpin the proposed cost framework of a total of 2 266 million. kr. Accommodation and ICT equipment are included. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Ministry of Defence returns to Stortinget with its own case describing a concept of how the base can maintain its functions in peace, crisis and war, and showing how the various measures, such as: air protection, base defence, fuel installations, hangars and other infrastructure shall be optimised in order to ensure optimum operation. Furthermore, the Committee welcomes the fact that the increased costs associated with the implementation of noise abatement measures and the construction of a better-protected hangar solution are within the cost picture of the operation of the Stortinget. 62 S for 2016-2017. Today, Stortinget will also approve the investment framework for the acquisition of new submarines for Defence, cf. decisions taken in connection with the current long-term plan. It's a brand day. The four new submarines that Norway will acquire, with phase-in from the mid-2020s, will strengthen our defence along the coast and in the sea areas, especially in the north. For a maritime nation such as Norway, submarines are one of the most important military capabilities and an important and strategic resource. They can operate hidden over long periods of time over large areas, have great impact through their great influence on maritime military operations and contribute significantly to the defence's deterrence capability. Norway has now entered into strategic cooperation with Germany on this acquisition, which will also include education, training, maintenance, lifetime studies, spare parts, updates and upgrades. Germany and Norway will acquire identical submarines and the production of boats will be coordinated. Such cooperation will reduce operating and maintenance costs and create significant ring-effects for the Norwegian defence industry. It is also worth mentioning that strategic cooperation has been started with Germany, which will allow for the sale of missiles to the same country, further development of missiles and missile technology, and cooperation on a battleline system for both Norwegian and German submarines. Cooperation will be positive for the development of high-tech competences in Norway and for the export potential of Norwegian developed products. The defence industry is an important partner in defence. It is therefore appropriate that the considerations of the Norwegian defence industry, the possibilities for developing competences and increasing international exports of Norwegian defence technology are emphasised in this proposition. The submarine project is quality-secured according to guidelines for large-scale State investment and the quality assurance report supports the main conclusions of the decision-making basis. The total cost framework for the new project is 41,370 million. kr. It is in line with the assumptions of the new long-term defence plan. On that basis, the Committee will endorse the recommended cost framework. Today's submarine infrastructure at Haakonsvern and in Ramsund will be largely reused, but it will be necessary to adapt berths and replace simulators. The Committee welcomes the return of the government to the Stortinget with a recommended maintenance solution proposal for the new submarines in 2019. During the examination of the long-term plan last year, the Stortinget decided that Norway will join the European cooperation project to acquire, operate and use a multinational fleet of multi-roll tank and transport aircraft, MRTT. Air-to-air refuelling is a prerequisite for ensuring effective use of the new fighting aircraft, and there is a high demand capacity in NATO. Multinational MRTT cooperation will provide a better burden-sharing internal to NATO Member States. The costs of Norway’s participation will be covered within the current budgetary framework of the Ministry of Defence. Finally, as regards the proposed changes to the basic rule of the Voluntary Protective Service, which have been made on the initiative of the Voluntary Protective Service itself, the majority of the Committee’s view is that the change, which also opens up membership for non-Norwegian citizens, including young people under 18 years of age, will harmonise the legislation with that of other shooting teams, such as the Norwegian Protective Association and teams and associations associated with Norway’s Sports Association and Others. The Council of State has also addressed various issues related to this in depth in an answer to a question raised by the Committee. With this I will recommend the setting. I would like to thank the Committee and the Council of State for the cooperation in this matter and throughout the great period that we are now putting behind us.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2669	The investment proposition is an important document, in fact one of the most central — and most expensive — documents we deal with. We're getting submarines for over 40 billion. kr, so it's clear that this creates an enormous commitment to the Storting, as we see. Anyway, I thought I'd focus on submarines, which is probably the most strategic acquisition we're discussing, because new submarines are one of the most important military capabilities and at the same time are an important strategic resource. The ability of submarines to operate hidden over long periods of time and over large areas, with great impact, has a major impact on maritime military operations. This helps to give the Defence a relevant capacity, to maintain a war-preventing threshold and to contribute to the Defence’s deterrence capability. The submarines will also provide an effective capacity to detect and prevent attempts on blocked Norwegian territorial seas. The Progress Party would stress that in this respect the Storting pointed out the importance of concluding a comprehensive, strategic and long-term industrial cooperation agreement prior to the conclusion of any acquisition contract, which commits itself to various forms of mutual industrial cooperation, equivalent to the acquisition value of the submarines – with the objective of significant national value creation, both through direct and indirect industrial agreements. The defence industry does not exist in isolation, but is an important partner in defence. Cooperation between the defence industry and the defence provides opportunities for the development of competences and increased international exports of Norwegian defence technology. Norwegian industry must also be guaranteed missions in connection with the operation and maintenance of the new submarines. The Progress Party therefore calls on the Government to work towards the development of a work-sharing model between the cooperating nations, ensuring the establishment of industrial centres of excellence, known as the Centres of Excellence, which are responsible for the maintenance, repair, further development and upgrading of advanced subsystems. The Progress Party welcomes the government's return to Stortinget with a recommended proposal for maintenance for the new submarines in 2019-2020, and hopes that Norwegian industry will be able to participate in centres of excellence. The party notes that the defence needs and the relationship between price and quality underpinning the choice of Germany as the main supplier of new submarines. This will lead to the subsequent selection of subcontractors and industrial partners. The Progress Party assumes that FD is a driver for qualified Norwegian companies with high competence in subsystems to play an important role in submarine procurement. Exports and international cooperation are, in the view of the Progress Party, a prerequisite for maintaining the national defence industry. We need to use submarine acquisition as a breakup bar to get to other agreements that allow the defence industry to contribute to other projects that we are going to acquire in the future. That's exactly what's done to that, for example. Nammo and Kongsberg have had the unique opportunity, and now they have thousands of jobs in the high-tech industry and are moving into e.g. drone technology and other areas that make us have something to live off here in the country. Then you need to export, but it's also important that the acquisitions we make have consequences for Kongsberg and Nammo. – I could say all this without reading out what I’ve read, but then I skip it on; now I’ve talked enough about the defence industry. I'll just end up talking a little bit about the Voluntary Shooter Service, which has been mentioned. I think it is a little strange that the whole matter is mentioned here at all, but okay enough. The party of progress is the party that is not in the majority view, because we think it's a little strange. We agree that foreigners can participate in the same way as others, but when talking about single minor asylum seekers, the whole signal is strange. Had it been all the other sports, I kept saying – you don't encourage from the pulpit here that single minor asylum seekers are going to work with kayaking or swimming, so why exactly shooting teams? I thought it was a little strange that I should come in here. It breaks with the thinking that those who come to Norway may be traumatized and come from areas where there are actually war acts – and then we'll teach them to shoot with the shooters. We think that's very strange, so we're the only party outside of that note. I think most, if they think about it, would agree with us – but perhaps because it was the Progress Party that asked, they weren't.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2688	In view of the debates we have had earlier today, I must praise the President in order to get rid of me with free speaking time, but I shall be brief! Only a few brief comments from SV. We support the setting, but it's worth dwelling a little bit on the fact that we've made a lot of investments in the Defence, like that. in the frigates, which have proved to be much more expensive than planned and not functioning properly. Now there are very good reasons to buy submarines, and SV supports it, but vigilance and closer follow-up and reporting to the Storting about the status of both the submarine project and other investments should be encouraged to avoid similar situations. It is also worth mentioning that the other major investment we have recently made, namely P8 aircraft – at a still unknown total cost, but I will assume at least over 10 billion. kr – has not been treated in this proposition, as it should be strictly. It was treated in connection with the aging of the state budget, as we remember. At that time, external quality assurance was not carried out, which is actually to be applied to all projects above 750 million. kr. It is our responsibility to make as much investment as we do, both in submarines, in aircraft and in surveillance aircraft, and history shows that in the case of defence investment, neither the authorities nor the Stortinget have always managed it in a good enough way, and the Stortinget has been kept too little informed of the errors when they occur. So that's how we, as we know, are to reduce the number of fighter planes, and that supporting new hangars, is not an expression of a changed position there, but rather that we agree that once the planes are there, we should have the infrastructure in place to accept them. Finally, I notice that at a time when the Greatness is otherwise calling for savings, efficiency and moderation in most sectors of society, it is a rather overwhelming majority in the Greatness that ends up on NATO's 2nd pst. goal. This represents an increase in Norway's 20-billion-billion-dollar share. kr from the level of the day. In that case it must mean more control, follow-up and vigilance. In other words, more use of money does not mean greater drop-out; it means, on the contrary, that the responsibility of the Stortinget and the Council of State increases in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2703	It was probably the shortest post from the previous speaker so far today. First, I would like to thank the Committee for its work on the vote. I would also like to thank the Cooperation Committee, because these are the last two defence issues we have with the Committee during this great period. I think it has been both a good and a pleasant collaboration. It is important for the government to follow up the priorities and the defence structure adopted by the long-term defence plan. The proposal proposes the approval of investments in property, construction and installations for about 4.1 billion. kr, and further a proposal to acquire four new submarines for more than 40 billion is made. kr. This is the single largest investment in Defence for very many years, apart from the acquisition of F-35. All investments are important in order to continue the modernisation of the defence. The rapporteur has explained well and thoroughly the individual parts, so I will not spend very much time repeating what the rapporteur has said. But let me make one comment to what the representative Serigstad Valen said, namely that the frigates became more expensive than planned. They didn't. That's not what's been the challenge at some point with the frigates. It was a challenge related to spare parts and maintenance, but it is now very much solved, thanks to the fact that the government has spent hundreds of millions on it and will continue to use it. The proposal also contains information on the multinational agreement on multi-rolling tank and transport aircraft and a case relating to the amendment of the statutes of the Voluntary Protective Agency. In June 2012, the Stortinge decided on the location and establishment of the main base for fighter aircraft on Ørland. The first planes come to Ørland in November 2017, if everything goes as planned. With the three F-35-related projects proposed in the proposition, we're putting new pieces in place to provide the Defense with a functional and secure base where we can operate fighter aircraft throughout the spectrum from peace through crisis to armed conflict. Two of the proposals submitted for investment projects shall ensure that the disadvantages of noise emitted by the fighter aircraft are minimised. A number of dwellings outside the base have to be isolated and several properties have to be redeemed and then demolished. It involves pressures for people who may have to leave a place they've lived all their lives. This is something the government takes seriously, and we are therefore looking for good solutions for each household. It is also necessary to implement noise measures on the Defence’s own buildings inside the base. Many people have their daily work on the base, and in order to provide them with the best possible working environment, it is necessary to ensure that the requirements of the law on noise pollution are not exceeded. The new fighter aircraft represent a significant investment for the country. For the time when they are not operating in air operations, it is necessary to establish safe hangar solutions that protect against external influences and minimise the risk of loss. Therefore, an approved project is proposed for the construction of 12 new hangars with space for two aircraft each. Each hangar will be equipped with facilities to prepare the aeroplanes for mission. I would also like to highlight the fourth investment project presented in the proposal. The government is proposing to build a new fuel recovery facility in Muruvik with pipelines to the Værnes Air Station. This provides good opportunities for cooperation with the civil aviation operations on Guards, because there are limitations on how long fuel can be stored before it has to be destroyed. The six Ula-class Ula submarines were put into service between 1989 and 1992 and have an expected technical life expectancy of approx. 30 years. As part of the work on the conceptual studies on a future submarine capacity after 2020, extensive assessments were made of the technical status of the vessels. In line with the conclusions of the studies, the Stortinget approved in 2015 a project to keep existing Ula-class submarines technically operational towards new submarines, which could be delivered from approx. 2025. The government, as the Storting is known, made a basic decision in autumn 2014 to acquire new submarines instead of continuing any extension of life. The government is now submitting the acquisition project for approval. The project is based on committed and long-term marine-to-marine cooperation with Germany, which includes both submarines and other capacities. Cooperation will also include the training, training, operation, maintenance and support of the four new submarines to be acquired by Norway. In addition, cooperation with Germany includes extensive industrial cooperation with Norwegian companies, which will provide large business opportunities for the Norwegian defence industry. Submarines are among the main capabilities of the Defence and are of great importance to our ability to defend Norway's maritime interests. The foremost feature is to be able to operate hidden, over large distances, for a long time and with great impact. It is important that we have now found a strategic partner with which we can build a comprehensive and long-term cooperation. This provides a good starting point for the long-term cooperation relations we need to maintain a credible submarine capability in the future. The government is working with a goal of setting up a contract for new submarines during 2019. It allows phase-in from approx. 2025 and up to 2030, which in turn helps Norway to maintain a continuous submarine capacity when the Ula class is phased out. Norwegian companies are world leaders in some of the technology used in submarines, and the government will use the acquisition as a door opener to ensure the Norwegian defence industry international market access. The acquisition of new submarines is actively being used against international partners to further develop a competent and competitive Norwegian defence industry. The government is working to establish industrial agreements with the ambition that the agreements will collectively ensure the assignment of the Norwegian defence industry to a value equivalent to the acquisition value of new submarines. The proposed proposal proposes to amend a general rule for the Voluntary Sniper Service, DFS. The change will also allow for membership of the DFS for persons under 18 years of age without a permanent residence permit and for persons over 18 years of age with a permanent residence permit. The representative of Tybring-Gjedde thought it was strange that the case was mentioned, but that is because the Stortinget, by a decision of 1892, assumes that the Ministry of Defence must assess the DFS’ application for a change of rules and then submit it to the Stortinget. The size is, of course, free to change this if the Storting wants it, so that you get a greater decoupling between Stortinget and the Voluntary Shooter Service. The proposed regulatory change will harmonise the DFS legislation with the other sports shooting or hunting organisations. Citizenship is not required for membership of other firearms organisations, nor does the Arms Act require citizenship by acquisition of firearms. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the Committee is joining the government's proposal for investment in Defence. Projects are all important contributions to strengthening defence and ensuring its credibility and relevance in a more demanding security policy time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2739	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has asked for a line and will get it, but the president is not prepared to open up a wide-ranging round of lines in a matter of so much agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2744	We can't go into a defense case without a single line. Today the government gets the permission to start the construction of twelve new hangars for F-35 fighter aircraft at the Ørland Air Station, and the cost frame is as it does in the proposition. My question to the Council of State is: The cost given in the proposition concerns only hangars and not surrounding aircraft operating surfaces. This will mean that the total cost can be increased. How much is the total overrun in Ørland, and what will the final sum be before Ørland airstation completes as it should do once?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2753	The size has been regularly informed of the elements that have made the construction of Ørland more expensive since the decision was taken in 2012. There are costs that would have been incurred regardless of where you had laid the base, whether you had added it to Bodø or to Ørland. It is linked to both enterprise prices and construction costs, and in particular to noise measures, where the Ministry of Local Government confirmed the regulation plan for the municipality of Ørland and thus also laid down noise limits other than those envisaged in 2012. The third element is fuse. There has been a significant development since 2012 in the development of security policy, which means that we now need to secure our bases better. This is a debate and a discussion we have had in many contexts. It also means that the concepts that were intended for hangars could not be used, and that we have to make other solutions, which make this more expensive. And that's also the Storting informed about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2758	A little more concrete: Does the Ministry of Defence have control over the costs of Ørland, and can the Council of State say something about the cost of the overall concept?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2763	The Ministry of Defence has control over the cost picture and has therefore also focused on informing the Storting en route about the elements that have made this more costly. And there have been no objections or objections from the Storting against the fact that we are actually implementing the measures that are necessary, both to secure the base and to get good noise measures for the residents around the base, and that we have also had to calculate increased construction costs. The construction of the base is in good progress, but we also have no more time than necessary for all parts of the base to be ready before the aircraft arrive this year. It also means that progress must be as it is now, in the future. I believe it is essential that we have joined – and I believe the Stortinget has done so in several rounds – that we should actually build the base with the necessary safeguards and noise measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2769	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2785	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2794	The will for rematches is great at the Center Party. On the other hand, the willingness to convert is not as obvious. The difference this time is that the party has brought with it traditional defense enthusiasts in the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, and not least the SV. The draft representative shall submit the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Norwegian defense has appropriate helicopter support for the Army located at Bardufoss.’ ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the main helicopter base is maintained at Bardufoss, with its operational and technical management, training, training, maintenance, logistics and administration.’; Reference: Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 laying down detailed rules for the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security: OJ L 343, 31.12.1994; Bull. 1 was sent to the Proposal No. 2 violates Section 38 of the Storting Rules of Procedure, as the case has already been dealt with in the current session and is not dealt with. In its position on the matter, the majority of the Committee considers that, in line with the adopted long-term plan, the gathering of the Bell environment would provide better support for the Special Forces of Defence. The same majority believe that the current distribution of Bell 412 is to be continued until sufficient capacity with NH90 and AW101 is established, estimated by 2019-2020. Any decision on a future base structure for helicopters for the Army means an intervention in the ongoing process, and the Progress Party does not consider it appropriate to provide guidance for structures at the same time as the investigation into the future land power. So it's the majority that's behind it. Of course, the Progress Party believes that military professional judgements should weigh heavily when decision-making on defence capabilities and devices is taken. Not least, all relevant facts should be kept on the table before drawing conclusions. The Progress Party suggests that the majority's intention in the Land Power position, Innst. 62 S for 2016-2017, inter alia: the need for helicopter capacity in the Army is addressed in the ongoing investigation of the land power. Something else would be weird. In this context, it is important to note the reference in the same setting where the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party and Christian People's Party agree that helicopter capacity in the Army is one of the main elements to be investigated. In particular, the note on page 26 specifies: ‘In order to ensure the most relevant arrangement of the land power, where strength, mobility, endurance and reaction capability are important factors, this majority considers it natural that the land administration will address a number of individual issues related to the further development of the Army and the Home Security, for example, but not limited to: the presence and strength of the forces of the land throughout the country, with particular emphasis on North Norway and with reference to today's centre of gravity in Inner Troms, Porsangs and South Varangs; the distribution and composition of the Army between military and protective personnel, and the use of reserve personnel; and the modernisation of equipment in the country power, including the future need for helicopter capacity.’» The Progress Party and the majority also point out that the same majority in the vote on the long-term plan ‘emphasises that the time of movement of Bell 412 helicopters can only be determined when alternative helicopter capacity is in place’. [[...]] [[...]] This will happen by 2020. Whether the nine Bell helicopters remaining on Bardufoss, or other helicopter capacity, will be necessary, will be investigated in the ongoing land power study.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2829	The Workers' Party, together with the Right Party and the Advance Party, has concluded a settlement on the long-term defence plan in force. The agreement is based on several compromises. One of the compromises is that the final model for the location of the Bell helicopters of the Defence is only to be decided when the Land Detention Office comes to political proceedings in the Stortinget in October. The question of helicopter support for the forces of the country is an explicit part of the mandate of the current national authority. From the Labour Party, we have clearly flagged what we think about the helicopters on Bardufoss. Our party program for 2017-2021 states that the Workers' Party believes that a modern, powerful and mobile land power must include helicopter support for the Army – based on Bardufoss. Responsible, predictable and comprehensive defence policy is not driven by individual representative proposals. The working party is fully committed to strengthening the mobility and preparedness of the special forces through dedicated helicopter support based on Back. The question of the future of the Army helicopters naturally belongs when the conclusions of the Land Power Administration arrive at the Stortinget in October 2017, in practice part two of the examination of the long-term plan for the defence sector for 2017-2020. Then, from the Labour Party, we have literally the last defence case in this period, and I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Council of State for a good and constructive cooperation over four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2844	The government’s long-term plan provides a strong reinforcement of defence after many years of under-financing and down-prioritying. As part of the long-term plan agreement, the Government Parties and the Workers' Party decided to move the Bell helicopters from Bardufoss to Rygge when alternative helicopter capacity is in place in the north, estimated 2019-2020. With this grip, we're strengthening the special forces and counter-terrorism preparedness. At the same time, we make sure that the helicopters are exploited in a better way than they do today. In the examination of the long-term plan, it was also decided to launch a specific study of the country's power to assess how the Army and the Home Office should be set up in the future. In the mandate given by the Minister of Defence, it is also clarified that the working group is to consider different solutions to address the army’s need for mobility, including helicopter capacity. For the Right, it is important that we have a strong land power and that we make the right investments so that we make the best use of the defence crowns. That is why we are looking forward to the recommendations of the Defence Manager being presented together with the State budget for the autumn, but also to the preliminary report that is due to come on Monday. Defence depends on predictability in terms of both economy and structure. The long-term plan adopted provides for both. Therefore, it is regrettable that some parties spread uncertainty and turn Norway’s defence capabilities into political rematches. The fact that the Central Party is involved in this proposal just a few months before the government makes its recommendation, which a unanimous majority has asked for, cannot be seen as anything but symbolism. Furthermore, it is worrying that the Central Party again seems to take lightly the costs of the Defence. In this proposal, they claim that it's just increasing the number of crews on the Back. The center party believes that by having more crews, you can make better use of the helicopter hulls and reduce the number of hulls. But this is logic that's not related. Of course, the team has to be trained and trained, and so the defense is going to use more people who need practice and training on fewer helicopter hulls. The fact that more crews and fewer hulls will cause more wear and tear and thus require increased costs in spare parts and maintenance does not appear to be part of the logic of the Centre Party. These fights create uncertainty for the defense. The Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right took responsibility, stood in the storm and made sure that the country got a sustainable long-term defence plan. However, in its observations in this case, the Workers' Party tries to give the impression that they are missing from the decision in the long-term plan on the relocation of helicopters and the closure of 139 Airwings. I would remind you that this decision means that no move will take place until alternative helicopter capacity is in place. In the next sentence, they claim to continue to strengthen the Special Forces of Defence. Thus, it remains unclear whether the Army should have new helicopters in addition to what is mentioned in the LTP, and whether the special forces are not given the helicopters they need to strengthen the counter-terror preparedness. Given that the Workers' Party has not at any time stated whether to increase the financial framework for the long-term plan and that particular attention has been paid to the need to conduct the land-use study within the framework agreed in the LTP, I am concerned that they are making such an easy decision that obviously would have to involve an additional cost. It will either be at the expense of other capacities, or it will be added to underfinancing. When the Right came into government, we took over a defense that was underfunded for many years. It had significantly weakened the defense. At the time of the presentation of the Defense Annual Report earlier this year, the head of defence could tell us that the trend of decline is turning — and that is good news for the Defense. The right will continue to strengthen the Defence in line with the Long-Term Plan, especially in the North. For us, operational capability, and therefore defence ability, is most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2863	In 2008 – with the Central Party of the Red-Green Government – it was confirmed through the forthcoming long-term plan that ‘Bardufoss Air Station is being developed as the main base for the future helicopter structure of the Defence Force’. The government then decided – which is as true now as it was then – that a bet on Bardufoss airstation will reduce the need for investment in relation to a necessary construction elsewhere. In the long-term plan from 2012, we in the government stuck to our policies and decided: ‘Bardufoss air station is continued as the main base of the Defence Helicopters with joint management of 339 squadron with Bell 412 tactical transport helicopters, 337 squadron with NH 90 Coast Guard helicopters and 334 squadron with NH 90 frigate helicopters.’ In other words, claiming that the cover-up ‘head base for helicopter’ does not exist, as the Council of State has done in response to the Central Party, is a strange and strange assertion. Few are in doubt that the Army needs helicopter capacity. There is also no modern army in the world today that has no functional helicopter available. During his talk in Oslo Military Society on February 2, 2016, he said. Odin Johannessen, General Inspector of the Army, fast: ‘An army without a helicopter is an army unable to perform its tactical duties.’ Helicopters are a necessary capacity for a well-functioning army. Helicopters make it possible to quickly take key terrains such as aerodromes, bridges and ports to ensure the movement of other forces and equipment, to free themselves from the road network and to make land forces more uninhabitable to an opponent. Another important capacity is the need for medical evacuation. Especially Norway's large area and geography – with mountains, fjords and valleys – will in several situations make it particularly difficult for the Army to operate effectively without this capacity. Other bodies in society, such as the Head Rescue Center, the County State, police officers and the Police Directorate, have also expressed scepticism about the relocation of transport helicopters out of the country, based on the total defence of a large area. The move of the 339 Quadron and what now turns out to be a shutdown of the main base for the helicopter, is probably a case of a tragic error prioritization and money wasting in the Defense. In the long-term plan, the government spends a lot of money building up capacity one place, and then building up another place, without increasing fighting power. The closure of Andeya is another example of such a waste of money, where the government destroys both an operational capacity and a community that has adapted to the needs of the defence. The removal of the Army helicopter and the decommissioning of the new main helicopter base at Bardufoss is another government error priority that gives the Defense much less fighting power for the money. Bardufoss has built up a solid and valuable environment of expertise over several years. The establishment of the helicopter base at Bardufoss is completed this year. In addition to the new squadron building, infrastructure and equipment for the new helicopter base are established. It has been a very large investment, with costs of about 1 billion. kr. In response to the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee sent on 27 June 2016, the Council of State wrote the following about the transfer of the 339 Quadron to Rygge and the 334 Quadron to Haakonsvern: ‘The proposed measures relating to changes in the helicopter structure imply a reduction of approximately 100 years’ work. For more than 20 years, the measure will amount to approximately 2.4 billion. crowns in reduced costs.’» A little indicates that moving the 339 quadrant will give these savings. On the contrary, more and more people are now asserting that these estimated savings are not correct. Only two weeks ago, I asked if the government could still guarantee that its savings in response to the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee were actually correct. She could not do that. All I got was an airy response that the collection of Smoking and the reduction of the Bell 412 environment would ‘free up resources to higher priority activity’. Moving the helicopter environment and central functions to Rygge costs money. It will also do much to get the Army new helicopters. In the context of the management of the revised national budget, the Central Party asked what estimated the cost of obtaining the Army nine dedicated and owned helicopters with the corresponding capacity as today's Bell helicopters at Bardufoss. The government then replied that investment costs for own transport helicopters to the Army were estimated at about 6 billion in 2014. kr. In addition, lifetime costs include operating costs. Through the proposal, which is backed by four parties – not only the Center Party, which the previous representative felt to believe – we are asked to ‘ensure that the Norwegian defense has had helicopter support for the Army located at Bardufoss’. It should be clear to everyone who wants this, that it is a far more cost-effective solution to keep today's Bell helicopters at Bardufoss than to invest in new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2898	The left is behind this proposal, because we are genuinely concerned about the Norwegian country power and its development – also in the light of the long-term message we dealt with last year, and in the light of the case we have just dealt with. We have 40-billion-dollar investments. NOK to submarines, we have ordered P8, we have high costs on F-35, there were constant costs in Ørland, we have started moving processes from Andøya, we do not know the costs of establishing on Evenes, and there are other moving processes in progress. When this is going on and we do not make decisions on the land force, there is a great danger that what remains of resources will become the land power, and there will be a decline in land power in Norway. It is not reliable when it had to be submitted to a Document 8 proposal in Stortingen to ensure at all that we have a land power, and an investigation that we are presented on Monday is published. Now I don't know the content of it, but whether it's an independent professional-military advice, or whether there's more of a looping message that you would have wanted to present, no matter what the Stortinge meant, we have to look at Monday. It's clear that for the Left, it's absolutely vital that we have an army, and we need to maintain an army. We also believe, based on the knowledge we have, that there should be a mechanized force, and that we should go further with the investment projects we had set up, both with new tanks, air protection and new artillery. This also naturally includes a helicopter capacity. When the majority points out that nothing should happen until you have alternative capacity in Bardufoss, no NH90 or AW101 will have the flexibility of Bell helicopters for a force. It'll never be a good substitute – we'll be able to fly less, it won't have the same flexibility and won't be able to fulfil the role of the Bell helicopters. Therefore, this decision should not have been taken. We need to have a country power study that provides independent professional-military advice that the head of defence can stand behind, so that the Stortinget and, to the extent that the country can hold a full debate on this in the process towards the harvest – that it does not just come at the end of the year together with the budget and the budgetary decisions we are going to take. The wholeness of this is so crucial that it should definitely be part of the knowledge and debate we have, even in the run-up to the autumn elections. The reason for moving the Bell helicopters is that they are to be used for the special forces. Then my question is, are the Bell helicopters really suitable for the special forces? Is it the Bell helicopters you would use in operations internationally, or is this really just for training here? It's probably not about having an extension of nine, it's really going from nine to twelve. Why, then, is this so crucial to that development? We also have a situation in the north – it is not only used for the Army, it is also used for training for the Coastal Hunter Command, a Coastal Hunter Command which we, at least from the Left, believe should be maintained. We've funded it this year, and it'll be a new fight to keep it going. Then we will also see how the Land Power Study looks at the Coastal Cheeral Command. I believe that this proposal must be seen in the context of what is a much larger debate about a broad concern. It's not just something that's in these parties, it's a broad concern about which way it's going with army and land power in Norway. With that, I would like to address the proposals that the Left is on. I would like to address both proposals Nos.1 and 2, which are intended to ensure that Bardufoss uses the benefits and capacity that they have as their main base and that the Stortinget has previously adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2917	The representative Ola Elvestuen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2922	It is becoming increasingly unclear what the government and the Labour Party want with the Army in the north. In the discussion of the long-term plan, a compromise between the Labour Party and the Government on the final settlement of the decision on the helicopters in the context of the Land Power Study. It went against, but that's what was decided. But the starting point for the government in the message was that one wanted to collect the helicopters and remove helicopter support on Bardufoss. No, quite outside the treatment of the land power study, the government will kneel back as the main base. It is not only contrary to the 2008 Decision – is it not also pre-conclusion with the Land Powers Study, contrary to the Labour Party-Government compromise? - I'm asking. For the rest of us there has been a clear case all the way. SV, the Central Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party propose today that the helicopters be preserved on Bardufoss, the Army needs dedicated helicopter support, which will be removed if Bell disappears from Bardufoss. The government itself admits in the long-term plan that their proposals mean that the helicopter support of the Army will be reduced. In the Chief of Defense's professional military council, the Chief of Defense says that moving Bell to Rygge means that the ambition of dedicated helicopter force to the Army is abandoned. Bell has particularly four important functions in the north, in support of the army: Sending forwards Evacuate Forces Extracting Wound Deployers from Brigade North in Inner Troms, e.g. miners All of this is highlighted as important functions in a war situation. The NH90 and AW101 are not suitable options for Bell to take these tasks; they have other primary tasks that make them inappropriate. The only thing is that they're too big and have trouble landing if it's not completely flat. The second is that it is a maritime version, which is not adapted to the land. The Chief of Defense says in his reply that the 3,900-year-old hours of flight to the NH90 are dedicated to frigates and Coast Guards. Thus, all missions NH90 will do for the Army with evacuation and the like, one of the resources of the Coast Guard. In addition, if the NH90 and AW101 are to act as support for the Army in war, they must have time to train on it. Since the plane has other primary tasks, there will be no time to properly train for it to work realistically in any war situation. The Bell helicopter is now widely used by the police and the army. The Department of Defense says that Bell has carried out a total of 29 calls in support of the police, 14 of which are from Bardufoss, 15 are from Rygge, so there is an equal need for police support both places. In addition, Bell has carried out 168 other missions including military transport missions for border guards, search, rescue and ambulance missions. All the assignments were made by Bardufoss. According to the Ministry of Defence, the reason that no such people were made from Rygge is that they have a higher level of anti-terrorism preparedness, and that the threshold for use is thus higher. Nevertheless, it shows that Bell performs many tasks. The civil assistance, however, is something that can be easily replaced by other helicopters, so this shouldn't be a heavy argument. It's hard to find support for a needing 12 helicopters on the Back to have two helicopters in constant readiness. It's hard to understand that today's nine isn't enough. If there have been problems with having two planes operating continuously, with a total of nine, it comes from maintenance and manning problems, not from the number of aeroplanes. In the long-term plan, one also says that one should have 12 planes to dedicate them to the special forces, so it's not essentially terrorist preparedness that's the reason for increasing the number of helicopters on the Back. The Department of Defense also acknowledges that there may be enough with nine aircraft on Rygge, and that one can keep nine at Bardufoss, but think it will cost 160 million. kr in operation. Norway's Officers' Union is too high, there is a need for more staffing and some more maintenance, but they estimate the cost of being much lower. Summary: SV cannot see that the new government initiatives are based on professional-military assessments. It will weaken fighting power and army, nor can we see that this can be combined with the Labour Party and the government's compromise to wait for the Land Power Study – one has already drawn conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2956	Here it was very different that I can't answer in five minutes. I will nevertheless seek to answer something. Firstly, until the last time that the representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, says, that this is not justified by professional judgements. Then I recommend the representative to read the chief of defence's professional military advice. There is clear and unambiguous advice on the need to ensure dedicated lifting capacity for the special forces in order to increase their operational capability. There is a lot that can be said about rematches, but it is at least easy to take rematches when you are not in position and should be responsible for the overall operational capability of the Defense. Today, the Air Force is in the midst of a major conversion process both for the reception of new large capacities and systems, new training of personnel, which we are currently running, and not least for the expansion of bases. This transition is important for the entire Defence and for our operational capability. In that situation, what we need is not gnawing, uncertainty and rematching. What we need is for the conversions to start. The collection of the Bell environment at Rygge must also be viewed for the acquisition of new helicopter systems. Today’s distribution, which has been discussed by several, with nine helicopters on Bardufoss and nine on Rygge, continues until an alternative helicopter capacity is in place in the north, estimated by 2019–2020. The government has through the long-term plan provided that this change does not take place until this capacity is in place. I think it is important to remember why the government recommended and the Stortinget decided to assemble Bell 412 with the base on Back in peacetime. Today’s scheme means that this relatively limited helicopter environment is divided into two locations dedicated both to special forces and to conventional forces. At the same time, civil protection must be ensured in support of the police. It doesn't provide a sufficient solution for anyone. It's very challenging to set up a practice and training pattern that makes real use of the helicopters and crews. The situation has therefore been that Bell 412 does not support the special forces or the Army in a good enough way. In this situation, the government chose to make a clear priority, and it was that the special forces should have good mobility. It is important for preparedness in Norway, and it is also important to be able to use the special forces with helicopter capacity in outbound operations. Several claims have been made in the course of the debate today in relation to the helicopters. What's been investigated by the Defense's team earlier during the helicopter study in 2014, is that if the Army is to have helicopters, it's not the Bell helicopters that are the most suitable. They're too small, they have too little lifting capacity and too little reach, and so this helicopter study suggested that if, for the future, you have to have a dedicated helicopter capacity in the Army, which you don't have today, you have to do that, it's a proposal, at approximately. 15 NH90 equivalents, as it says in the investigation. That is, larger helicopters. It is, therefore, the follow-up to Stortingen's decision on landmines, where we will see the helicopter's need for the land force in a comprehensive land-military context, where all aspects related to combative force, mobility and support are assessed against missions and threats, which are the government currently working on. I am pleased that the Workers' Party is so clearly signaling that there is no change on the part of the Workers' Party in the decision taken by the Stortinget, and that there is no desire for the Special Forces not to have dedicated helicopter capacity, precisely because it is so important. In conclusion, the discussion about Rygge is well described in the long-term plan of defence. If the representative is interested, he can read about it on pages 78 and 79. I will also comply with the claim that the NH90 would be unsuitable to cover some of the tasks. Operational testing and evaluation are now under way. I've been on my own with an NH90 that's landed in an ant. It's going well, and it's also possible to use it for rural military operations. That being said, of course, there are also opportunities for the Defense to move helicopters northwards or elsewhere in the country if necessary. It is also possible to operate a civil lease in order to meet transport needs which are not purely military. And that's the way it is that when the new helicopters – the new rescue helicopters and coastguard helicopters – are now in place in the base that we've spent a lot of money building on Bardufoss, which becomes an amazingly good base, the helicopter capacity in the north is increasing. It's not decreasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2979	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2985	The government announced in the revised national budget the purchase of three transport helicopters to the police, planned based on the Gardermoen. My question will then be: What will these helicopters mean for the Bell helicopters on the Back, which are today made available for police transport standby?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2990	It is a little early to say, simply because the emergency response needs could vary and could change until the new police helicopters are in place. Defence is at all times prepared to support the police and civil sector with emergency aid. That is why we also reduced clear time from 1 January 2017 to the helicopters that are on standby, both at Rygge and at Bardufoss, from two hours to one hour, so we have easier access for the police and others who want to ask for assistance. The fact that the police provide three new helicopters will meet some of the needs of the police, but there may still be a need for emergency assistance. The emergency mission is something that locks up a lot of resources, whether it's in the police or the defense, because you have to have a certain number of hulls and a certain number of personnel on standby at all times. There are consequences for the practice and training tasks and other tasks to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e2997	After all, it is planned that the Bell helicopters should be on Bardufoss until new helicopters are acquired, but it says ‘estimated by 2019-2020’. Everyone knows we've been waiting for a few years for — to put it nicely — that they're going to land in Norway, literally. What is put into ‘estimated’ and how much uncertainty is there in that year?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3002	The last of the Coast Guard versions of the helicopters comes this year and is planned to be the first of the frigate versions. It is important because the operational testing and evaluation are being carried out with integration on a coastguard vessel, but also for other operations, which I was involved in so far in my post. We've always been clear from the government that we don't want to carry out this move until we have a corresponding capacity, not only with the NH90, but also with new rescue helicopters. The Minister of Justice and I were opening up the new base on the Sola, and the first helicopters are coming here this year, and that is important for total preparedness. We've been very clear that we're saying this is “estimated” to happen in 2019-2020, but we've always assumed that the final timing has to be determined when we see that we have the helicopter capacity in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3011	I'm recording that the state council is using the word rematch. This is probably more about getting a long-term defence plan without us having the land-use study and land-use authority as part of that plan. Then I register the disagreement between the government party and the Workers' Party on one side and the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Left and the SV on the other. But I want to ask an open question to the Council of State. Now we're going to have a land-use study. We know that we will need helicopter capacity also for our army in the north. When you know the Bardufoss environment, the capacity that's there, will the Council of State completely reject that we should continue the use of just this environment into the future robust defence we need in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3018	Much of the point of the move we're going to gradually make is just to exploit a not too large helicopter environment on Bell to give the special forces an increased operational capability, increased mobility, to contribute to community preparedness. So the state administration will respond to what kind of conceptual device on the land force is the right one in meeting today's and future threats, and it will also provide answers to what capabilities the defense needs to solve it. I've been very concerned that we're not going to pre-conclude on some of the capacities associated with the mercenary, precisely because it's so important to see this whole land-military context, and it's also been a very important point for the investigation that one should make his own independent assessments of what is operationally needed. On Monday, the interim status report of the working group will be presented, and some of the dilemmas and possible solutions will be outlined. But I also stress here that no conclusions have yet been drawn. It'll take some time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3023	One might wonder about the Workers' Party, which, in the form of a comment, says that a person should actually make this decision later, decide it later, and they have a different arrangement on their programme, at the same time as the Council of State now says that this has been decided, this is in the long-term plan for the Defence and the 'hat's it'. So one or another is talking a little bit to each other here. But that's not my question. There is no doubt that using Bell helicopters is better than using NH90, etc. because it is heavier, and it is also that the NH90, in addition to the dedicated coastguard, and to the nearest extent the frigates, do not have resources for additional flight hours per day. And one can run 10-15 hours with Bell for every flight hour with the NH90. So my question to the counsellor is, does she really think that the NH90 could be a substitute for Bell-helicoptra?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3034	When the defense conducted its helicopter investigation in 2014, the so-called NH90 equivalents that the defense thought could give any dedicated helicopter capacity to the Army. As I mentioned at the outset, operational testing and evaluation of helicopters are now taking place for the primary functions the helicopter will have, but also for possible operations both overland and on land. It is clear that as complex as this helicopter is for maritime operations, there are also significant capacities to carry out operations over land. I don't know where the representative Navarsete has his claim that one flight hour with NH90 is equal to 10 to 15 flight hours with Bell. There is now a fairly thorough work on both the maintenance and operational concept of the NH90, and it will only be when we have completed those assessments that the answer to that question is also clear. But, like much else in this debate, this is not primarily about helicopter or helicopter support, but trying to rematch against an election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3041	I understand that one, once you've decided on a land bill, waits with all the decisions, all the use of new capacities, etc. one has received and is able to take a decision on the matter, as the Council of State calls for both in the reply and in its statement. How is it that one in the proposal for the long-term plan pre-defined in many areas within the Army?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3048	I have to admit that I am not quite sure if I understood the question. After all, we have laid the foundation for what we believe to be independent of the state administration, for example. construction of a border company in Finnmark. It has been important because we believe it is important to strengthen the country's military presence far north. Similarly, we have also strengthened the Heimevater in the north, HV 16 and HV 17, and that is because they have special tasks and are located far north. I have not realized that there has been any disagreement in the Storting about this, rather on the contrary, there has been full agreement on those measures because they are important to the rural military capability. That being said, at the same time, it has been essential for the government to carry out a major land-use operation that looks at the whole of the conceptual system and the material choice of the land-use force, both the Army and the Home Office. It is important precisely because the use of land forces has also changed since a different security policy situation occurred, and the way in which land forces are operated in a common operational perspective now looks different than it did before. That is why I also believe that the representative, Mr Fylkesnes, can look forward to Monday with excitement and read the status report from the state administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3058	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3065	From Troms' point of view, today's debate is most gratifying that all parties, with the exception of the Right Party and the Advance Party, are unequivocally expressing the desire for helicopter support for the Army located at Bardufoss. It's positive for the Army, for the Defense and for the Bardufoss community. Until the harvest, the land mutilation shall be treated. The army's need for helicopter support is part of that investigation. We can establish the following: If all the parties that have supported the fact that there should be helicopter support on Bardufoss so far hold on to their positions, the majority for the harvest of helicopter support for the Army will be located on Bardufoss. The case complex related to the helicopters is certainly exposed to the land traffic management, and it was agreed in the compromises reached in the negotiations on the LTP. We, who have worked on this matter from Troms, could have initially adopted a proposal like the one that exists today, but we adopt the long lines in the long-term plan of defence and in the land estate until the autumn. In practice, part two of the long-term plan have been in place since the government presented a long-term plan that was without land use control and did not address the role of the Army. For this reason, the law enforcement is the right place to establish Bardufoss’ important role for the defence in the future. The Workers' Party will go in there to have the Army have helicopter support located at Bardufoss. Some try to create uncertainty about what the Workers' Party really thinks about helicopters. This need not be done, because the Workers' Party's programme for the period 2017-2021 clearly states that the Norwegian defence must have helicopter support for the Army located on Bardufoss. I want to sum up in three points what we think about this: The working party will secure its own helicopters for the Army based on Bardufoss. The Coast Guard shall have its NH90 helicopters, and the Army shall have its own helicopters, either Bell or new helicopters. It is natural that army helicopters on Bardufoss are organized in a separate squadron, either 339 or a new squadron. The base manager of Bardufoss assumes the airwing functions by command and control of the base units, including the management, staff, maintenance and support functions of the helicopters. These points clarified the Workers' Party following the agreement on the long-term plan. As in 2008 and 2012, the Workers’ Party also believes today that Bardufoss is a very good solution for helicopter operations in conjunction with the army and sea, near the priority areas in the north. The helicopter base at Bardufoss shall also support the Army in the future and provide co-operation with all defence branches and foreign departments. In addition, today's Bell helicopter plays an important role in civil protection in Troms. So the next milestone is the landslide, and there we are crystal clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3090	When the Council of State and the majority in this Chamber talk about rematches in connection with the long-term plan, a listener should be careful, because then they know what they're talking about. If there's someone taking the fight, there's probably just the plural, in the long-term plan about Rygge. Smoking was, in fact, built up. The Inspector General of Air Force was supposed to move to Bodø, and what's going on? The government reverses and rebuilds Rygge, and our bases in the north are swept. Hence, a helicopter base on Bardufoss – because one has to strengthen the environment on Rygge. It's very strange that the right previous speaker says we should have a helicopter on Bardufoss, but why should one then move the helicopters – and then have a helicopter? Why not just build on the amazing competence environment you built on Bardufoss, a base that's just completed? It simply doesn't make any sense. And here's where the Labour Party talks for better knowledge. The council has answered me and also said that one has laid down that base, one has moved him. This way, you can't at the same time say that you're building up again. At least it's a very strange way of running politics, and at least he's not cost-effective. No one can say that. The work on the long-term plan of the defense hastened, and there are few things that illustrate it better than just the movement of the 339 squadron, and what has then proved to be the closure of the main base of the helicopter. So the Council of State claims in reply to me that the cover-up base was not in use. Well, I've shown in previous posts that the scope was clearly used in two long-term plans. When the Council of State refers to decisions, I have also asked if it could clarify what decisions in the setting of the current long-term plan for which the Stortinget has agreed to shut down 139 Airwings. Of course I didn't get a clear answer to that. You can read in the configuration and see that there is no decision about any location. In other words, it is implicit, and there was definitely no discussion in the committee about it. But the committee discussed very little in this long-term plan. It was a very short and – I would say – urgent attitude during the work, and I hope for future long-term plans that one will both present them in time and make progress so that the Storting can get a solid and proper discussion, because it will fuel the Norwegian defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3101	What this discussion, or the situation, shows, is that the Army and the county should definitely be part of the long-term message, so that we had seen the entire defense in a context, and not got this order that we now get. The reason why I'm taking the floor now is really what the Council of State said. Now we don't get a professional military assessment or investigation of the land-use study that came on Monday. This will be a status report from the working group. Then I assume, as the Council of State also says, that final decisions have not yet been taken, they will be taken later. Then I wonder how the Council of State thinks that the independent professional-military assessments should be made known to the Storting. Or won't there be any professional-military assessment? If there is no professional judgement from the head of defence, from the chief army or the others – now they have become commanders and not general inspectors – then we have a situation in which the integrated management has become only part of the department's management of the defence. One does not get the clear sense of the role of having a professional-military assessment, and then one has a political assessment in the department. I hope the Council of State will make it clear that we will also receive an independent professional-military assessment of the work group that is presenting and working with it. It's made known to the Storting. I also wonder how she thinks it should be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3110	Let me start with the last one first. I'm a little surprised that this debate is coming up again now. We have had our own debate based on our own proposal for a representative on precisely these things. We've discussed the up pillars and down walls, but I can repeat the main points if it wasn't clear enough in the previous debate. The Chief of Defence implements this national authority as part of the Integrated Strategic Management of the Ministry of Defence. He has two roles: one as the government's leading professional military adviser and one as the head of state. This is in the role of the professional military adviser. He is behind the working group as a status report on Monday, but he has not made his decisions, and the government has far from making its decisions, precisely because the working group will continue its work for months to come, and the government will make its recommendation to the Stortinge in a separate proposition in the context of the 2018 budget. This is well known for Stortinget, and in my opinion this is also completely unproblematic. So for the post from the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen. I had initially not intended to comment on it, but I still feel it is worth some comments, because the representative says that someone is trying to create uncertainty about what the Workers' Party believes. At least I haven't had that intention, because I've interpreted the Workers' Party to that they're behind the decision we made. In my opinion, it is probably more the representative, Tove Karoline Knutsen, who creates this uncertainty about what the Workers' Party believes, because if you want to keep both the helicopters on Bardufoss and get a dedicated helicopter capacity for the special forces, it has a price tag. So it'll cost approx. 6 B.C.E. to acquire the helicopters, and then either something else out of the country's power, or you have to spend more money. There, the Storting has assumed that it is the framework laid down by the long-term plan, which is the framework within which this will be investigated. That's why I think it's an independent point that we're just seeing this country-military context and the whole before making decisions about what capacities the Army should have. So to the last point. There is basically no desire to end the last debate with the Committee in this way, but I cannot fail. I react very strongly to Mr Navarsete's claim that the base in the north is disappearing and that I should have said in a reply to Mr Navarsete that the base has been laid down. None of the parts are correct. The base of Bardufoss is at its best. It's extended for close to 1 billion. kr. In a short time, a fire station that we have built out here will also be opened, and it will be a fantastic base for the operation and maintenance of the NH90. It's a very vital base, and it's going to be in Defense for very many years to come. I think it is a pity that Mr. Navarsete's representative chooses to add to that kind of debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3123	Liv Signe Navarsete has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3128	I'm talking about the main base for the helicopter at Bardufoss. If I said the base on an incubator, I meant the main base, and I meant the movement of the 339 quadron, which is tied to the helicopter base, which was set as the main base in the two previous long-term messages, where the cover is used and well known. Nor have I made any decision in this room that that main base should no longer exist. But it has been said from the Council of State that he has been signed and for all those who have heard the debate here, there is no doubt that that has happened. I think I have my words in mind. To the extent that something was wrong, I said wrong. At least I didn't mean the "base", but the "main base". I want to finish in a more pleasant way: I want to thank you for your cooperation. We haven't always been a few, and that's good, because where everyone is a few and no one has any different opinions, it rarely makes any special progress. One actually needs to discuss such important areas. But thank you for your cooperation, both to the Council of State and to the Committee, it has been good for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3137	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Trade Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of First Instance. 11-13 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3178	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the President, 5 minutes to the main figures from the other political groups and 5 minutes to the members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines with up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3187	As was just said, we're dealing with three things here. It is the industrial communication, a proposal for a representative on a simpler everyday life for small and large enterprises in the country and a proposal for a representative on increased green competitiveness. In general, I want to stick to the setting related to the industry message, for which I have been the case rapporteur. Let me first of all begin by thanking the Committee for a very good cooperation and a clean and good work on this position. Let me also thank all the external actors who have made good sense. This is a setting that bears a great deal of cross-political agreement in many areas. For a time – more specifically one week – that has shown and is going to show a divided nutrition committee, I am pleased that we can also gather on both our own proposals and comments and what the government has presented. This is actually the first industrial announcement the government is promoting and the Stortinge treats over 35 years. So it's more than a generation since the last time we were able to deal with this in detail, back in 1981. At the time, industry had more employees than today, both as a proportion of employed and in absolute terms. On the other hand, the profitability was lower. Productivity was definitely weaker. Industry has changed enormously at this time, and the rate of change is most likely to increase only in the years and decades to come. Fortunately, we have a good starting point for meeting these changes. Although the first 24 hours after the presentation resulted in some criticism from the opposition, I find it gratifying that the criticism was largely silent after industry associations, universities and colleges, research institutes – and not least industry itself – praised a large number of companies and organisations for being concrete, ambitious and full of concrete proposals. I think that shows that we have a adaptive and constructive opposition – and that is in many ways good. The map and the terrain should preferably be in agreement. Norway has a proud industrial history. It is estimated that the development of Norwegian industry began approximately at the late Middle Ages with primitive treatment of iron and wood. From there up to the end of the 1800s, most of it was wood and iron extraction. From the end of the nineteenth century and the beginning of the nineteenth century, our first, internal industrial revolution: the expansion of power. The hydropower laboratory at the technical-natural university of Norway, former NTH, which last week celebrated 100 years, can most likely be called Norway’s most profitable construction ever. By the turn of the century, the work was about 20 p.m. by the population of industry — a number that remained stable for a long time. In the post-war period, we got our second great industrial wave. Shipbuilding, engineering, chemical, electrical engineering and mechanical engineering grew. In 1950, over a quarter of all employees worked in the industry. Until now, industry has been characterised by new technologies, in particular computer technology, which have led to more efficiency and rationalisation. Today work under 10 pst. of the employed in the industry. There is no quick fix or a simple measure that makes industry bigger or stronger tomorrow than yesterday, but there is a set of instruments that have to work together – at least in the Progress Party. These include: on the tax regime, on competence, research and development, on the ability to convert, and on simplification and red tape. When the opposition accuses the government of being so-called business neutral because we believe in more instruments, other than pointing out winners and losing, that's not true. The Industry Communication merges into a wide range of active documents and measures in this period, e.g.: a maritime strategy, a maritime strategy, strengthening, extending and legislating the net pay scheme, the founding plan and the strengthening of Enova. When we cut growth-removing taxes and taxes, the social budget increases by 50 pst., increasing industry-related research and development funds by 50 pst., increasing industry's self-funded R & D activity by more than 10 pst. every year by 50 pst., it is a highly active, relevant and forward-looking business and industrial policy. Nevertheless, I am quite sure that we are going to hear the opposite during the debate here today. So over to some of the things we mention in the position more specifically: an overall committee is in favour of the government promoting a big message about the health industry. This is something the industry itself has worked to get, to get an even better coordinated effort, so that we can get even more out of what is definitely an exciting industry for the future. The earth's population is rising sharply, living standards are rising, more people will need both medicine and medical advice. Therefore, it is close to believing that turnover in the industry today, which is about 50 billion. kr. This year, of which 40 p.m. is based on exports, has a potential for further growth. The transition has become a word that everyone has had to deal with in the last few years. Industry has always been changing and changing – there is nothing new about this. What we're assuming is new now and in the years to come is that the rate of change will accelerate – especially by means of and because of digitisation and robotization. Many workers fear the future and their jobs, and more and more report material restructuring or reorganization of their jobs in recent years. Many jobs will disappear, but our goal must be to replace them with new and more jobs than those that disappear. What is certain is that we need to work even smarter and more productively in the future to be competitive in a global market. Digitalisation must meet offensively and with more instruments. The Government proposes to launch a Digital21 process and to obtain the agreement of an overall committee to it. The aim is to establish a comprehensive and coherent strategy across industries and industries. The test centres for industry, Norsk Katapult, are being rolled out. Facilities for testing new ideas and solutions for Norwegian companies will be crucial. Such «common good financing» must be implemented in order to achieve this, at least in a start-up phase. The focus on enabling technologies – or technologies that prove to be so pervasive that they lead to major changes in society, in good Norwegian – with which the government is running – is also part of the digitalisation strategy. Industrial CO2 emissions have been reduced by about 40 pst. the last 25 years, while other emissions to society have increased over the same period. It shows that we have an offensive industry that adopts and develops technologies that contribute to emissions reduction. The Committee, minus a few parties, points out that climate and environmental requirements must not lead to red figures in the accounts of Norwegian industrial enterprises. In many cases, this is a global market place, and we have not been served by industry flagging out to areas with fewer and lower requirements than we have, due to strange climate and environmental requirements. Furthermore, the Committee is pleased that the government is proposing to continue the CO2 compensation scheme for powerful industry and looks forward to negotiations with the EU in that area. The same applies to the government's Procedural 21 proposal, which also gives the Committee its full support. Knowledge, competence, education and research are important for the development of Norwegian industry and meet the challenges posed by technological development. If you look at Norwegian history and industrial history – from constructing the world’s best and most efficient Viking ships, so that we could travel and trade with the rest of the world, through fishing, mining, to today’s offshore and farming industry – the red thread is especially skilled and innovative professionals, realists and technologists. That's why we've invested extra in mathematics in the last few years. We have put extra emphasis on skilled workers, vocational correction of education and training, apprenticeship grants and apprentices in public tenders. I am pleased that the government is proposing to improve the funding of the technical-industrial institutes. Norway has a strong institute sector, and for industry in particular, it is the technical-industrial ones that are important and that help to convert and renew Norwegian business. Finally, a explanation of vote: the Right and the Advance Party will vote in favour of minority motion No. 5, to review the scope of action of state loan and guarantee schemes for Norwegian industry under the EEA Agreement, despite the fact that this work is already well under way with both the Minister for Industry and the Minister for Fisheries. This has been a very good job for four years, which has already produced good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3231	I want to start by thanking the case rapporteur for doing a very good job with the industry message. The reason why we are now debating this industrial announcement is the Christian People's Party's proposal in autumn 2014, where they were given a majority on the Stortinget in order for the government to come to the Stortinget with an industry announcement. Three years later, at the dump of the landfill period, this message comes. The industry itself is the engine of our common well-being. It ensures jobs throughout the country, value creation, export income, productivity development and income to the community. We need growth in the industry. We need industry to be flagged in – not out. We need the industry to build competence at home – not build it up. We must be at the forefront of technological solutions that create innovation and that can lead an international market. After four years, the government is still in the process of responding to capital and exports. So we're going to bring down new samples. The answers and solutions should have been provided when this message finally arrived. In the Workers' Party, we are pleased that the government has turned around and supported some of the proposals that we have made here in the Stortinge during this large-scale period, among others. establishment of a top industry centre, the Loan Guarantee Facility and Process21. It seems that we have received a majority for a health industry message, and I am very pleased about that. It also appears that we are getting a majority for a hydrogen strategy, a risk regime for innovative procurement of public acquisitions, ordering to put in place measures to contribute to a closer link between design and branded industry and the raw materials industry – although government parties do not seem to support this. It has also been important for us to make proposals to contribute to the modification of Enova's mandate and programme so that the sector subject to allowances is also included on equal terms with non-quota industries. The Norwegian industry, like us, has been very disappointed that the parties of government, the Left and the Christian People's Party have been against this so far. The working party believes that there is a need to review the instrument. The effort must focus on strategically important industries, where growth and the potential for value creation are high, where we have natural and competent advantages, and where there are major interactions with technology and competence across different industries. We have to put the force into action. We've been doing that for over a hundred years, and we have good experience with it. However, we believe that the surplus of power should contribute to increased value creation and employment in Norway. Any new foreign currency shall be socially viable, and we ask the government to secure the CO 2 compensation scheme and ensure that it continues at the current level. We believe an industrial strategy for hydrogen needs to look at how we can exploit the huge resources we have of natural gas, how it can be transformed into zero-emission hydrogen, and whether we can solve the storage of CO2. The hydrogen can then be a fuel for both shipping and long-distance transport in the future. Here we have to see the possibilities, find the answers and grab the grips. Lack of access to competent venture capital is highlighted as a major challenge for many growth companies in Norway. The government has not fully absorbed it since they have tried to build down Investinor by withdrawing 1.25 billion. kr in the State budget of the year. Fortunately, they did not receive a majority, and we have therefore also proposed that the government’s capital selection should review the access to venture capital and evaluate the public instruments that can help ensure increased access to competent venture capital for Norwegian companies in the future. We will also stress the importance of good arrangements for a testing and demonstration centre of new technologies. Catapult schemes only cover parts of this need, and we are concerned that there should also be operational participation included in the scheme. Digitalisation affects all sectors. By being a leader, we ensure that the new jobs will come to Norway, but it requires an active country in terms of both organisation, regulation and procurement. There is a need for rigorous tripartite cooperation, digital washing, where legislation is evaluated against new technological opportunities, review of competition law in response to the data economy, strengthening security and reducing vulnerability. We believe that an important part of the development of artificial intelligence is language understanding in order to process unstructured information. We were given a majority, against the government parties, to assess the need for these measures and to ensure Norwegian competitiveness in this area. I finally put forward the proposals we have in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3262	The representative Else-May Botten has addressed the proposals on which the Workers' Party is party and which belong to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3267	Thanks to the rapporteur for a very tidy job with the message. The flag should basically be lifted today. It is, as the rapporteur said, 36 years ago the last time we dealt with a comprehensive industrial report, and the world is now a completely different one. Climate challenges and green-growth transformation are now an overall challenge. Digitalisation, automation and technological development in general provide us with new but great opportunities, but also major challenges that need to be met offensively. This Communication facilitates growth in existing and new enterprises. The government is pursuing an active enterprise policy. The notification has received very good reception from the actors, as has the policy pursued in the last four years. Investments in infrastructure and transport, in industrial research, in clusters and on tax havens that allow industry to retain more of its own profits are the way to growth and development. But the Workers' Party is not satisfied: ‘The government has reacted too late, too weakly and too unfocused in meeting with increasing unemployment.’ That's what they write in the setting. It's an incredible statement in the light of the fact that the next moment you can criticize the use of oil money. I feel committed to Ibsen, who wrote: ‘Whether I’m hammering or hammering, And it shall be so, that it shall be soothed. Too little, too late, too weak, it's written. Budgetary policy has been rather remarkable in responding to the fall in oil prices. The subsequent need for change in the economy has proved to be fundamentally different from what we experienced during the financial crisis. That time, the oil price went up again. Now it's been lying on a depressive low level. It requires a completely different approach and, at the moment of the decision, the clear light of the timing of the decision does not exist. We've taken medication; it was appropriate dosed and timely. But from the opposition jammed there just as full, as Ibsen would have said. It's their role, but they should also point to what they themselves will do. Therefore to the words ‘too little targeted’ in the quotation: what do you mean? Is it true that the Workers' Party does not recognise that investment in infrastructure and transport, in industrial R & D, in growth-promoting taxes and clusters and instruments are active industrial policies? Is it the case that the Labour Party believes that the narrower the policy making process, the more active is the policy? In that case, I fundamentally disagree. When you give a narrow priority, you take a broad priority. This means that politicians are to appoint future winners. There's the story full of basic projects. According to the class struggle on Saturday, the representative Botten would like the State to ‘hand-pick the companies to be supported’. The state is not owner and can not become owner of more than a few enterprises. These few are therefore to be favoured at the expense of the overwhelming majority of Norwegian enterprises. You want to take from the many poor and give to the few priorities. The working party wants everyone to pay more in tax so that they themselves will give special advantages to a few. The setting shows a broad consensus about a lot. The call from the Labour Party team for more concrete measures falls on its own unfairness. They don't come with any significance themselves. The industry message is good, it is concrete, and it is offensive. For four years, we have prioritised active enterprise policies for conversion. Measures that strengthen competitiveness are important for growth. The Government has provided a number of communications and strategies on aquaculture, public procurement, forest, travel and agriculture — just to name a few — and this Communication further warns of actions that will increase knowledge and exchange of experience between actors. The time when we could just lean on oil is over. The oil will also be important in the future, but it won't have the same traction as before. This is a demanding shift for the country. We have lost many jobs with a phenomenal value creation behind each job. No one can minimize the challenge by creating the new jobs that will further promote Norwegian well-being. The multiplicity of private ownership and the amalgamation of businesses that this ownership has created is our best guarantee that the best ideas are emerging. That is why we have provided an active industrial policy that creates opportunities for everyone. The good ideas must be raised, wherever they come from, and who creates them. The Workers' Party's signal that they should manually pick up the companies to be supported is a warning of future disasters and a signal of a national step of major dimensions and consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3301	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the report on industry, the representative Sivert Bjørnstad, for a solid and good job. Then I am glad that today we are going to adopt a new industrial message. It was, as has been said earlier in the debate, the Christian People's Party that took the initiative for a draft representative on this matter during this period – as we did in the previous period. Then the red-greens thought that we didn't need it, but today's constructive opposition party has been passed along with the Left, the Advance Party and the Right. Norwegian industry has a long and proud history. We are based on natural assumptions, and competent professionals have laid much of the foundation for the welfare society we have today. There is no doubt that industry has been, remains and must be very important for value creation and jobs. Norwegian industry is diverse, from large corner stone companies in our communities to small and medium-sized enterprises and ever-new initiatives from entrepreneurs. This creates important jobs across the country. Industry has been important in the past, but is also important for the future. It is e.g. very important for the development of new technologies, in particular technologies needed to create a more environmentally friendly society. Norwegian industry has technological and industrial competence to provide solutions for new, renewable energy. This makes the competence and innovation of industry crucial in the fight against major environmental and climate challenges. The industry of the future must provide solutions to tomorrow's problems. For the Christian People's Party, it is absolutely central that we build industrial activities and value creation from Norwegian resources, because there is a great potential in exploiting our natural resources, and we have to use the advantages we have. In an increasingly globalised world, it is important for industry that we have good and predictable framework conditions. That is why the work of the government and the Storing has now done is important. We are in an international market, and the conditions and framework conditions we have in Norway affect the competitiveness of industry. Conditions that are entirely different from those of foreign operators may impair the competitiveness of businesses and have consequences such as the closure of businesses or the displacement of newly established capacities in better-performing countries. An important step that has been taken in recent years is to reduce taxes on wealth on working capital. This has been important for the Christian People's Party. We know that we are involved in securing Norwegian jobs, making it easier to start up again and generally increase investment opportunities. Through this message and the setting we now have for processing, we have received a good description of the Norwegian industry. There are also several important measures to be followed by the government in order to ensure good framework conditions and to facilitate the uptake of the potential of this industry. Then I have an explanation of vote. We support proposal No. 5 in the vote and also the distributed proposal No. 10, presented by the Workers' Party, SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3322	The representative Line Henriette Hemdal then explained the positions of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3327	I want to start by thanking the case manager for the job that has been done. It is a thorough and good setting that has been made. And there's a lot of agreement between the parties in the configuration of a series of issues. I think it's a strength both for industry and for future value creation in Norway. The central party is particularly concerned that industrial policy should be – and be – an industrial policy for – the whole of Norway. An industrial policy shall recognise the importance of existing enterprises. There should be an industrial policy that targets small enterprises, and there should be an industrial policy based on the natural resources and competences that we all have. An active industrial policy shall ensure both value creation, employment and export income to the country. Does that not mean who controls industrial policy? Yes, of course. An important distinction goes between the Right and the Progress Party, which thinks that everything is equally important and is occupied by neutral, wide-ranging systems, and the Center Party, which we think must have a more focused policy where the range of bets is chosen that is followed up specifically. For example, we will. build an industry around minerals. Then there is not enough general framework conditions. We need a policy to adapt the mineral industries, where industries and authorities work together to achieve the goals and to design targeted tools. A good example of a non-targeted policy is the way the space industry has been treated by this government. Every time she has our balancing item on the budget and experienced incomprehensible cuts. One must also note that, after selling Norwegian companies, Norwegian state-owned companies, the Right’s eagerness is still alive when the representative Gunnar Gundersen asked whether in the view of ownership in Norwegian companies it is Ibsen’s words about ‘Eternal is only owned by the lost!’ that are at stake. For those of us who believe in Norway as a whole, that jobs and value creation are needed throughout the country, it is important that one has busses in both towns and cities. Resources and competences are distributed across the country. Industrial policy as a leader must be adapted to Norway. That's why, for example. will then be wrong when the Right and Advance Party cut off regional development funds. Therefore, a differentiated employer fee is an important measure. There must therefore be an active district policy, not a centralisation policy, at the bottom. And an active policy is needed to exploit our natural resources. There is a lot of talk about simplification – simplification that measures exactly the crown. I'm far from sure that the country's businessman is just as happy with the simplification work of the government as the government itself is. The centre party thinks it needs more radical changes to achieve real simplifications. The removal of the audit obligation was such a handle that has a real content. We need to have several such measures. Changing forms and digitising forms is important enough, but in the long run it is the most cosmetic. Norwegian business is a green business. Good access to renewable energy is, and should be, a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry. The centre party thinks we must lead an energy policy that contributes to that very thing. In the case of the proposals submitted, the Central Party supports the proposal No. 8 and 10. So I'm going to take advantage of the possibility of thanking the Council of State for the cooperation during this big period of time. It has been a good and constructive cooperation. There have been tough political struggles, and then it's okay to end with a matter there's a significant degree of agreement between the opposition and the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3352	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for their good cooperation. When Stortinget is dealing with the industrial notification today, it is the first industrial notification since 1981. Enormous technological and social changes have occurred since then. This is a very important matter, which is of course good for us politicians, but more important than that: it means a lot to the industry that an overall review of the industry is now being presented to the Stortinget. That the message is based on sustainability, change and technology development, Left is well suited. In addition, we treat the Innst. 379 S, on a simpler everyday life for small and medium-sized enterprises in the country, and 374 S, on green competitiveness, in the same debate. In these two cases, both of which come on the initiative of the Left, I will address the proposals that the Left has made. It concerns the proposals Nos. 1 to 5 in the opinion on a simpler everyday life for small and medium-sized enterprises, and proposals Nos 1 to 5 in the opinion on a simpler everyday life for small and medium-sized enterprises. 1 to 15 in the position of increased green competitiveness. With regard to the industrial notification, I would like to stress that the health industry is important and has a high potential for Norway. It's an industry, or industry, we also have a good advantage in being able to succeed internationally. It is good that a Joint Nutrition Committee is in favour of promoting its own awareness-raising message about the health industry. Also within the design industry there are opportunities for Norwegian business that should be exploited better. I am therefore pleased that the government is now going to promote measures for a closer link between the design and branding industry and the raw materials industry. This is very good – not least for the furniture industry in my home country, More and Romsdal. The left has helped to improve the framework conditions for industry in the last four years. Tax policy has improved significantly and, together with the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, the Left has achieved a significant boost in the transport sector – for the transport sector. That means a lot, not least to the industry in District Norway. It has also been important for the Left to strengthen the education and research sector. This is an area where we have steel focus at all times. We will continue to do that in the years that come. Developing knowledge is also important in addressing energy and climate issues. Norway is well placed in terms of technological and industrial competence to address new, major environmental and climate challenges. More research in sales, in fact, and marketing should also be prioritised. The left wishes to welcome digital development, and I think it is good that the will to use new technology is great. In this context, it is also essential to ensure that the Norwegian language remains competitive in digital development. Small businesses are a left-wing heartchild. There is also room for increased value creation in creative industries. The context of industrial development is obvious, and creative industries should therefore also have a central place in the industrial communication. Access to capital is important for the development of Norwegian enterprises, not least for small and medium-sized enterprises. The left has been a driving force for better access to capital, and in the revised national budget, we have been able to leverage the CapitalFUNN tax incentive scheme, for investments in start-up enterprises. It is important for increased investment in such companies. It is also important to include better export programmes. Norway needs several strong export companies that can contribute positively to the export balance. A global growth programme can make a positive contribution. In this context, it is appropriate that authorities contribute funds to make brand and design visible. Education is central to the Left. Everything starts at school. Focusing on vocational education, real science and technology skills is important for the development of Norwegian industry in the coming years. At the end of the day, I would like to say that in the case of the industrial communication, I support the Left's proposal No. 5, from the minority in the setting. In addition, the Left supports the distributed proposals No. Eight, nine, and ten.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3384	The representative of Pål Farstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3390	Norway needs a business policy that is clear about what we want, with measures that give us direction, which dares to implement all the tools we have in the large enterprise policy toolbox to achieve our objectives. The industry message we are discussing today contains a lot of good policy, but it is also a message where the direction is unclear. The standard response from the government in the last four years has been tax relief and tax cuts when the question has come up. The government has not been able to prove that it creates more jobs, but still uses a budget by budget to hammer in the same action over and over again. That's what one seems to do here as well. When the government presents its industrial policy, it draws the same old answer out of its hat. The answer is still the case. At the same time, they don't dare to point out the specific industries they want to bet on. Nor will they strengthen state ownership, even though it has been strongly demonstrated in Norwegian history that it is a very important tool to get good things into business policy. SV is asked to go in a different direction. We have to get more bones into our business policy, as many have said before. We have to get a more diverse economy, we have to get rid of our oil dependency. Technology is evolving at an increasing rate. It fundamentally changes industrial production and creates both challenges and opportunities. If we don't give up the use of the toolbox, we won't get to the necessary conversion Norway needs. Looking at the messages and action of other countries in meeting both climate and technology challenges, they are both out front and they give up more than the government does in this message. The renewable society must not just be a speck, we must have clear strategies for how the industry can help us get there. We have to be willing to move the resources from what we've been doing before to the new things that we're going to create in the future. It is illustrative that the biggest research programme efforts in recent years have our oil research, and Innovation Norway is still spending a significant part of its budget on oil industry, there is no change there. In our alternative state budget, we suggest moving these money into other industries because we think that continuing on the oil trail is getting old with jobs, but also with the climate. If we are to convert the industry into the zero-emission society, we must use the competence of the oil industry in other industries. There is an unwitting amount of knowledge and competence that can be enjoyed by others, for example: in the health, breeding, space and bio-industrial sectors. We in SV are very positive about projects like Pumps & Pipes in Stavanger, which facilitates such a transfer from oil to hospital. We are also pleased that Abelia, Norwegian Industry, Norwegian Oil and Gas and Tekna have proposed a technology transfer programme from oil and gas companies. That programme has been supported, but we think it should have been at a much higher level. I'm very happy that we've now got multiple numbers to support getting higher, and I want to thank the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left for standing behind that remark. We mean that just zero emission is good enough and is very happy that the industry itself is on that very track. They're in many ways in front here. It is also good that the government is in favour of a 21-process with the industry to get the most cut in emissions. It is important that, in the years to come, there is close contact between politicians and industry in order to make the best possible proposals to equip the industry for the future, where we know that there is zero-emission technology as a liability. One of the biggest advantages for Norwegian industry is that one is good at environmental technology. History of Norwegian industry is also a story about how stringent environmental requirements have contributed to job security and job creation, and how waste can become a business opportunity. We believe there are great potentials for more value creation through the use of biological waste, for example. by generating biogas. Breeding plants are a source of biological waste that represents the same amount of waste as a population of 22 million inhabitants. Think about what industrial possibilities this can give if everything is collected and used. It would have been good for both the farming industry, the environment and other value creation. We therefore ask the government to make concrete proposals on how we can use waste from fisheries and aquaculture and organic waste from industry to produce, among other things. biogas and bio-fertilisers. Here, Norway has a great advantage in nature. State ownership ensures that the community can own critical infrastructure and important natural resources. We're going to have to do that if we're going to speed up the conversion that Norway's going through. I will include the suggestions that SV says on its own in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3421	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3426	Norway has a long and proud industrial history. Industry has created important jobs throughout the country – in urban and urban – and, in many places, the industrial enterprise is an important cornerstone. The government has a clear and active industrial policy. Norway shall continue to be a leading industrial and technology nation. It means that we have to bet greener, smarter and more innovative. The impact notification is the result of extensive work and close dialogue with industry, organisations and knowledge environments. We've held recording meetings across the country on the industry's framework conditions and on the challenges and opportunities of digitisation, automation, technology, competence and the green shift. We also see that there's a lot of positive happening. The optimism of the West is back, and the arrows point upwards in Rogaland. There is word review in the industry, and turnover is increasing again. Unemployment is on its way down, and new jobs are created. We have to take care of the industry's competitive advantage. We need to develop the strong industrial environments we have and stimulate profitable conversion. That is why we have presented 60 concrete measures in the communication. We must bet on an industry that is well rusted in the transition to the low-carbon society. It is an advantage in a world that is increasingly demanding climate-friendly technologies and solutions. The government will be a driver of green conversion, and we will present a green competitiveness strategy. We need to focus on enhanced cooperation between industry, the instrument and the research community to continue reducing emissions, while at the same time having growth. We therefore establish Process21. Industry needs predictable framework conditions, and we need to avoid carbon leakage. That is why we are continuing the CO2 compensation scheme for power-intensive industries after 2020. The government is pursuing an industrial policy to contribute to increased investment willingness for more profitable jobs. That is why we are counting on tax incentives to promote business. We've reduced taxes by about 21 billion. NOK, and we have removed the inheritance fee – which facilitates the change of ownership. We are now introducing an SME discount in Norway and tax incentives for long-term investment in start-up companies. The government has strengthened risk relief schemes for innovative projects, and we will extend GIEK’s guarantee schemes to include investments in Norway. We now all raise stones to help make profitable projects have good access to capital, including venture capital. That's why we've also put down a sample that's going to investigate this, and that's already going on. We are also in the process of making an export strategy. It's not a selection work, it's a work we do in the same way that we always do: we ask those who have the shoes on, we travel around, and we have recording meetings with companies, with organizations and with knowledge environments. As a small, open and export-oriented nation, we must have clear objectives and priorities for promoting exports. I have also received a Document 8 proposal from the representatives of Breivik, Rotevatn and Farstad on measures for small and medium-sized enterprises. I can assure you that the government is giving a very high priority to business simplification. Small and large enterprises now save approx. 14 B.C.E. kr every year. A key priority is to invest in skills and to continue the strong commitment we have to research, innovation and technology development. I would like to stress that the research and innovation instruments must be open, wide competitive areas, so that they are the best projects supported. The government wants increased digitisation in the business world and is well in the process of establishing Digital2l. The objective is a comprehensive and coherent strategy across industries and industries. We also support the industry's own initiative, Digital Norway, for which I now hear that the Workers' Party takes credit – incredible enough. The government will also make it easier for Norwegian industry companies to develop and test new technologies. We have therefore established a catapult system to help establish new test centres in line with business needs. This is a significant step towards Norway taking the role of a leading industrial and technology nation, and getting a greener, smarter and more innovative industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3468	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3473	The government has now been running for four years, and we have had an oil crisis that has created major challenges for both individuals and individual industries. At the same time, we have had very many rapid technological changes, and we experience that this is getting faster and faster. We have had the highest unemployment rate in 20 years, and there has been a strong need for an active industrial policy in which we could have dared to invest in industries with competence and natural advantage. The size has also been on and challenged by the government to produce both soil protection strategy, tourism reporting, bioeconomy strategy, industry reporting and many different strategies. We now see that the government parties are voting against both a hydrogen strategy and a risk regime for innovative public acquisitions, and I think why is it that the government always wants to sit behind and not be in the driver's seat?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3480	I totally disagree with the premises of the representative. It's also interesting to hear that it's been 35 years since the last time we had an industry message. The previous government sat for eight years and refused to make one. We've done it. It is absolutely right that we were hit by a huge wave – by heavy falls in oil prices. That is why we have taken a number of measures, both in general and in particular. Honeymoon's working. Bets on transportation provide both more jobs and better promotion. To increase innovation and conversion programmes by 3 billion. kr is working. We have a maritime strategy. We have a business plan. We have a bioeconomy strategy. We have a travel life message. We have a sea strategy. So we've done a lot of work, and we've been working on an industrial report since last winter. But it's not a desk work, it's something we've developed together with business, with the actors and with the knowledge environments. That is why I also believe that it has become a very good message, which has been well received in business.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3487	It sounds like the Council of State has very good contact with the actors in this picture. Then it's interesting to ask how the Council of State is dealing with the leader of Norsk Industry, Stein Lier-Hansen, who calls it a scandal if the government does not correct the fact that the quota-free sector will also come under Enova's climate. It is only the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV today that support that proposal. Industry believes that they are losing important support for climate-friendly projects and that we are not going to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement unless we change this decision. Will an industrial minister contribute to such a scandal as Stein Lier-Hansen refers to in the VG?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3492	I can assure the representative that we have close contact with Norsk Industrie. They have been actively involved in the design of the message. They were also very positive when the message was presented at Hydro in Porsground. They said they were very positive. I'm sure the representative noticed that he was there. I've registered what Stein Lier-Hansen said last week about Enova's allocations. It is that Enova is formally below the Minister of Oil and Energy, but these are important questions for the industry, so it is good for me to be able to clarify the obvious misunderstanding that the non-quota sector is now the only ones to receive support. Of course it's not like that. Nor would Hydro's pilot project be supported. The compulsory sector will be supported, including with the new rules, but there are some priorities based on fulfilling our obligations. Aid is granted to the quota sector, but in that case they must submit applications.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3499	I reacted a little to the way the Council of State described the situation in the West and in Rogaland. I don't need to blackmail, but I think the council is wrong when she with a wide pen just says that the optimism is back. The unemployment rate is still high. Many traditional, good businesses still wear hard. So my question is, how will the Minister of Industry describe the situation of the business community in the West and especially in Rogaland?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3506	I didn't mean to say that now we're over it. We're not. But I think the bottom is reached. I travel a lot around, and I meet a lot of companies that are in transition, saying that this is what we're going to get through. It's been really tough. It's still tough, and too many of them are still going to be demanding. For offshore industry in the West, both this and the next year will be demanding. But there's a lot of positive happening, and that's what I tried to refer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3512	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3519	Under this Right Party Government, almost no new jobs have been created. Throughout this period, fewer jobs were created in total than was created annually under the government of Stoltenberg. And at a time when we need more than ever an active industrial policy, we see a government that does not seize the opportunities Norway has. The government now boasts that this is the first industrial communication submitted in 35 years. Then it is right to mention that this message has come into place on the initiative of the Storting, based on a document 8 proposal from the Christian People's Party. And as case rapporteur for the matter at the time, I believe to remember that the Council of State was not exactly so very forward-looking in setting this up. The Labour Party is an industrial party, and we are pleased that the message gives a good description of the situation, and that several of the proposals that we and others have made during this period have been included. However, we lack some more offensive and concrete measures, and I would like to make some of the proposals and comments that the Labour Party is in. When we dealt with the law on public acquisitions, we were engaged in innovation in public procurement. In this context, it was a majority proposal more than a year ago to assess risk relief as soon as possible. The Government’s response has been that this will be assessed in the context of a notification during 2018. This is a loss of time and a lack of action. I am therefore pleased that it is the same majority that are promoting this again today, in this position, and now we are expecting action. In the case of government loan guarantees, we find that different production companies fall outside. This applies, inter alia, to: deliveries of the shipyards to Norwegian customers. We have had several enquiries about this from Norwegian shipyards. I hope – and now it is also heard this way in the debate here today – that we will have a majority in favour of our proposal asking the government to review the space for action so that they can get under that system and come back to the Stortinget with it in an appropriate way. Finally, I would like to say how pleased I am that we have received a majority in favour of the proposal in which we ask the government to promote measures that contribute to a closer link between the design and brand-owned industry and the raw materials industry. What surprises me is that the Right Party and the Advance Party do not support this. About two years ago, they said that this was a low-hanging fruit with which something could be done quickly. It is worth noting that this has not yet happened, and that the government parties do not support this either today. This is probably an example of a government that does not grasp the possibilities that exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3534	In recent years, we have seen clear signs that we are facing a significant change both in the Norwegian economy and in the Norwegian industry. This means that we need to rethink the policy that the red-greens pursued in order to achieve a successful industrial policy for the future. Right went to elections in 2013 to strengthen Norwegian competitiveness. The government has followed up very well. She has seen both the challenges and the solutions and followed up with a good and active industrial policy, with a historical focus on research and knowledge. After all, there must be active industrial policies and a historical commitment to infrastructure, which must also be a highly active industrial policy, and, not least, to tax incentives, which ensure export companies, for example, better and more equal conditions of competition, as foreign companies and business owners have. In addition, the framework conditions have been changed within several sectors by changes in laws and regulations. Competitive forces have increased considerably in many other places – although the Labour Party here in the Chamber has opposed many of the legislative proposals made by the government. What is done here is that there is a very good, active and forward-looking industrial policy of the government. We see the result. 80,000 new jobs have been created – although the representative Odd Omland has not got it. Many companies return to Norway from low-cost countries, we see it every day. For example, both before the fishing industry and when it applies to those who make parts for other industries and the car industry. We have had a historic flagging of ships back to the Norwegian flag of shipping. There is great innovation both in the oil and gas sectors and in the maritime industries — and last but not least what Norwegian Industry has called the best industrial policy effort in decades, i.e. the development concessions in aquaculture. Industry has been highly adaptive and adapts to global conditions. It shows the government that it follows up, both in practical policy and in this message. The working party still lacks a clear priority. But not since 1982 has there been an industrial notification and much speaks of a lack of good industrial policy and industrial policy since 1982. That is why industry, too, is very supportive of this message – and not least of government policy. But companies must be able to choose and decide where to bet. We will do everything in our power to support them so that they can operate their businesses better and have global competitiveness. It is worth noting that the Labour Party has very few own suggestions. They only have empty rhetoric and little of their own policies. They criticise everything - from process to process who got developed and started the process and came up with the idea that such a message should be created.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3549	We have to create to share. Our well-being and our security are the noble mark of Norwegian society and depend entirely on our ability and willingness to create values – to sow to harvest. For the Workers' Party, this is the main task of this policy. The fact that we are standing here on one of the last days of the ageing period and are dealing with a message that the Storting took the initiative also shows the government's priorities. One of the first ministers of industry was to put a strategic focus on health and welfare technology in the drawer, and the last thing the same parties do today is to secure a majority for the proposal from, among others. The Working Party on a Health Industry Communication. We're happy to have a majority, and we're impatient. Health is clearly the most research intensive industry in Norway. Every year more research and development is invested in health than in maritime industries, food industries and marine industries combined. The university hospitals are responsible for the largest research effort. Health industries can develop new medicines, better diagnostic tools and medical technologies that provide better and more effective treatment, but are also key to reducing the need for healthcare, through the prevention and development of welfare services that can transfer more of the treatment from hospitals and care institutions to the patient himself. Norway has a competitive advantage that should be exploited much better. In addition to strong research environments, we have unique health records, biobanks of internationally recognised quality, great willingness among the population to participate in trials and, in particular, a strong, consistent and common healthcare service that enables the efficient sharing of knowledge. Health care21, which was started by former health minister Jonas Gahr Støre, was a good start for more collaboration between health and nutrition. However, follow-up and targeted action needs to be taken. For example, not a single grant from the Ministry of Health and Welfare has been set up in such a way that it can attract business and mobilise private capital. Norway has great opportunities, but then we need politicians who contribute to an active industrial policy, where we are betting in areas where we have opportunities to succeed. Health is such a Norwegian option — and we are excited about the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3564	The government delivers on a case-by-case basis. I have to say it has been a great pleasure to sit on the Stortinget this spring and deal with so many good political solutions on behalf of Norway and Norway's future. Business and industry are crucial for the future, and they must have framework conditions that make them competitive in a global world. Here the government delivers to the dice throw six, and that also gives industry feedback itself. Norway needs an active industrial policy. One of the important industries of the future is the health industry, and we have a competitive advantage in Norway with our health data and biobanks. With promising research results, new advanced technologies and large market opportunities, the health industry has the potential to create significant values for Norway. Norway needs more legs to stand on, and now we are grasping the new opportunities. A report by Menon Economics, commissioned by the NHO, shows that it is difficult to commercialise research in hospitals. The availability of risk capital is challenging in the health sector, including the testing and verification of products, whether by medicines or advanced robotics, which require resources in the form of capital, testing facilities and time-use. It is therefore gratifying that there is a unanimous committee supporting the commitment to health and health. The health industry is diverse and too small a share of research in this industry is now becoming commercially profitable products and profitable enterprises. This government has been working for the entire period to strengthen this area. In the last three years, efforts on industrial research and innovation have increased by nearly 3 billion. kr, just to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian industry, and this effort is also being made by health industries. The Catapult programme also contributes to the development of good test facilities, which are needed by the health industry. At the National Court of Justice meeting, we put health nutrition on the agenda and adopted a number of points to raise nutrition, some of which are reflected in the Committee’s position. The State and the public are the dominant player in health in Norway, and without a clear strategy to stimulate private innovation and the development of new technologies and solutions, the health industry in Norway will not be able to become an international leader. That is why we see a clear need for a big message in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3583	This government has led a very active industrial policy in a very demanding time for our country. A number of communications have been submitted in important areas, with a focus on research and education, targeted instruments, tax relief and, in particular, transport. We see that this policy is working. Economics are improving, and unemployment is falling. That's good reason to enjoy. The government has been following developments closely and constantly working with industry in order to best facilitate migration and sustainable jobs now and in the future. The answer we have received from all the trade unions is that we are on the right track and that they want more of the same policy. The Labour Party has criticised our policy from day one and continues with it. The proposals of the Workers' Party add little new. What we know for sure is that the Workers' Party will increase taxes and charges by 15 billion. NOK, and I have not yet met a single company that wants more tax. The representative Else-May Botten, in the class struggle on 10 June, calls for a more targeted policy under «Economic & Labour», and she believes that the state should manually pick which businesses should be supported. This is worrying and extremely worrying. The question to the bottom is: what businesses are the ones to pick, and which ones are not to be picked? And on what basis? In this context, it may be worth recalling the Workers' Party on the Dooria case in 2006, where millions were given to set up a door factory in Årdal in direct competition with other door factories in the country, including: in my own municipality. The case was on the verge of a parody and distorting competition so it kept. The municipality did not have workers at the factory. It went badly, and it's bankrupt today. Fortunately, the company in Lwagal managed through the heavy time, and the private owners went in with a lot of capital to save an important corner stone company. The door factory in Bindal went bankrupt as a result of this targeted policy. This, in our opinion, is a ghastly example of misguided state-owned industrial policy. It's random, it's distorting, it's the wrong use of public money, and it's very unfair. So I really hope not that the Workers' Party will have the opportunity to steer industrial policy back into such tracks.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3596	A small industrial greeting also from the Inland, which competes a lot abroad. In every car in the world there is a car from Raufoss, and it is not natural that carbils belong on Raufoss. This is because over many decades an industrial culture has been built where development and conversion are particularly important. The instruments for a continued Raufoss industry are important, and at Raufoss they are somewhat concerned that Europe is withdrawing from us because they have other regional instruments. If we don't manage to rig national instruments so that those industrial clusters can keep up with competition and use technology, make it more efficient, convert, then we'll wear off in Norway. I would like to point out that once we have created new regions in Norway, adopted from 2020, we must also monitor what the countries around us are doing with regional instruments. They have some other instruments in Europe. So to the health industry message, which it's very good that it's now becoming a majority because we're getting on with it. It's about time. We have neighbouring countries that are good in the particular pharmaceutical industry, for example. Denmark. Sweden is also at the forefront of something. But also in the Nordic region, we have a large market for welfare technology, and together, we can be the world's leaders in putting welfare technology into practice if we manage to standardise and put it into practice in our common health sector in the Nordic region. We have to bring it, too. The health industry has long lines of development. We also need search costs or incentives for that sector in line with what we've had in the oil sector. During the period, the left has proposed a health mosquito regime in line with the oil mosquito regime. We never got a majority for that. We never really got to vote from anyone other than ourselves. But the proposal is there, it is still possible to address it. I hope it will also be part of such an industry message. Otherwise, green competitiveness is part of what we're discussing here. This blue-green technology is important – a blue-green biotechnology. As an alien, I would like to point out to Hamar, who has developed Arena Heidner and the biotech community there, Hedmark Knowledge Park – and not least Biobank AS, which is the national biobank for fish, livestock and plants, and which has actually come much further than the biobank on the human side in Norway. So here's something to learn. It's a very innovative, exciting environment. Then I miss something about water, because the UN Secretary-General said that in 2040 there might be 40 pst. by the population of the world without access to sufficient fresh water, drinking water. We also have a lot to contribute here – out in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3609	Something I didn't mention in my first post is what the committee writes in the setting of the machine tax. There is a majority comment that the government, in cooperation with interested parties, should look at measures that can increase predictability of property taxes on works and uses, in particular related to the so-called machine tax. Of course, I had hoped that the majority would go even further. This is probably a tax directly linked to jobs throughout Norway. If we mean something, for example. a real green shift, it may not be more expensive to replace an environmentally hostile machine with a newer and better, but more expensive, environmentally friendly machine. That is what is happening in practice today. So to the discussion about Enova and to support the quotaable or non-quota sector. I also think it is a bit symptomatic that where the Workers' Party is really in favour of this debate, it is partly on the subject of what was discussed a year ago in connection with the Energy Communication. But don't do that. It appears in the suspension and also in letters from Enova to its owner, the Ministry of Oil and Energy, a few days ago, where Enova makes it clear that they have the full opportunity to provide support for innovative and new solutions in the ETS sector that can in the long term reduce emissions either in Norway or abroad. On the other hand, what is not to be supported is mature technology that does not contribute to reduced emissions. In this case, the aid is at the expense of aid for emission reduction measures in the non-quota sector. Another issue that does not belong naturally in this case is the issue of guarantees of origin, which was also addressed in the Energy Communication. The strange thing here is there's no rematch from the Workers' Party or the Center's Party. They've just taken the opposite position of what they had a year ago. I happily admit that we had a different attitude to it when we promoted the energy message, but did not get a majority for it. We negotiated with others and agreed with an overall committee at the time. The Labour Party and the Center Party have not had to negotiate with anyone, so why they have turned this case around, I do not know. But I expect a combined power industry, renewable industry, to notice that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3618	With government policy, maritime industry has taken great steps towards green competitiveness. In addition to lower emissions, the government's policy is to create a home market for climate-friendly solutions that in turn provide a basis for green exports. In recent years, the government has provided several billions of support through Enova, which has been used for green technology development in several businesses throughout the country. The government has also taken advantage of the scope of export finance in order to increase the value creation in Norway. Right now is the subject of minority motion No. 5, but we actually see the whole proposal as quite superfluous. The government is already using the action space, as opposed to the previous government. In February, it was opened for export finance to build a krill vessel, which was opposed to the Stoltenberg government. It will also be opened for the export financing of oatmeals for more environmentally friendly salmon production. So the right-hand side saw no particular reason not to be involved in that proposal when it is now agreed. We're in full swing at realizing it. There were no measures in the field of public procurement law. To Odd Omland, I would say that new purchasing rules provide good arrangements, and good arrangements provide good opportunities to set requirements for less emissions in holiday offers. Several municipalities are now working too fully to reduce emissions in their supply documents. In Hordaland County, we have awarded a number of contracts to make it more stringent, better and more environmental requirements in eight new ferries in Hordaland. The world's first electric shaft is also in operation, and the breeding company Salmar has taken advantage of the world's first fully electric workboat in the marine industry. Fitjar Mechanical Workshop in Hordaland won the offer to build the new chargeable hybrid ship for the Coastal Works. Color Line is going to build the world's largest hybrid ship in this country, to name some of the government's policies. And politics, he works. It also gives us many exciting opportunities that are put on the table by the business community. The West has a surplus of renewable energy and has access to Norwegian gas from a socket, which can be used to produce e.g. hydrogen in the future. Another possibility we have is the data storage center. Here the government has also contributed to reducing the electricity charge, but has not received multiples to remove the special tax on works and uses that the Workers' Party and the Center Party want. We are not therefore able to obtain any particular competitive power to develop data storage as an attractive and good industry here in Norway. Once again, the Labour Party and the Center Party prevent competitive measures for Norwegian industry. I think that we still need to facilitate employment and business by creating more work instead of taxing more. Right believe in Norway, we believe in the companies, and we believe in the employees. Now, for God's sake, let them just let go!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3635	I was wondering if I should have a song up here, but I guess that's not allowed. But I thought when Gundersen had his post in place, that if he had sung what he said, it would have gone into pieces. It's a bit of a shame, because in the same sentence he said he was so pleased with everything. But he didn't sound very pleased in the way he spoke, and he'll get some answers here. He boasted that the industry message was the big thing that has happened to the world in the last 30 years, and that the Workers' Party, of course, would not have made an industry announcement. But it was the Stortinget who asked the government to make this announcement. It avoids the Right Party and the Advance Party to say when they're around talking about the industry message. It sounds like they're the fathers. The representative Gundersen said that the Workers' Party has constantly criticised that the message was too late, that it was too small, and that was the wrong medicine – I don't know what was wrong. But we've had the lowest employment and the highest unemployment rate in 20 years the time the government's been running, and it's actually the Right Party and the Advance Party that's been sitting at the steering wheel. Then it is incredibly well done that the government had to spend a very long time changing the law of the permit. It was actually like the Norwegian Industry and the Joint Alliance pressured the government to make changes. Then there was to be a package of measures for the South and West to resolve the situation. Then you put in 5 billion. kr in that package. But the media began digging to find out if this money came out. They found out that half of the money came out. More and Romesdal had 147 million. NOK 5 billion in total. kr. I don't know who got the job for that money, but it was at least a small pot that got where it was supposed to. So Gundersen said that the Workers' Party has come with little new, and that the Storting may have come with little new. Then I thought that there are very many of the strategies and messages that have been initiated from Stortinget, but it is very good that the government is following up. But when the industry message was initiated in the autumn of 2014 and comes in the spring of 2017, it is a sign that it is not going quickly. And when you have to start investigating things you should have solved, I think you're at least taking a long time. Maybe someone who spends less time should come to power and actually get speed on things. So for simplification. The government parties write in the document that they have contributed 12 billion. kr for simplifications. That's wrong. 5.5 B.C.E. kr came with the Stoltenberg government, and 7 br. kr came with today's government. Today's government has spent four years on the seven billion, while the government of Stoltenberg spent two years on 5.5 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3650	Simplifying is a key. The left is concerned that traders should have a simpler everyday life. We also want more people to become entrepreneurs and start their own business. In the light of this fundamental wish, we have promoted the proposal for a simpler everyday life for small and medium-sized enterprises in the country. With regard to one of our proposals, to remove the requirement for annual reporting for smaller enterprises and proposals for concrete implementation of limited accounting obligations for small enterprises, we refer to the second investigation by the Accounting Act Committee. It is proposed to remove the annual report requirement for smaller undertakings. In addition, the concrete implementation of limited accounting obligations for small enterprises is proposed. The left believes that the government needs to follow this recommendation as soon as possible. The proposal on the concreteisation of limited accounting obligations, as proposed by the Accounting Regulatory Committee, will have a high potential for savings. Much good has been done, but this will have a high savings potential for enterprises affected. Information obtained by the sample shows that many small enterprises will be able to use this scheme. There are several of our proposals and remarks that I could spend time in the debate, both on green competitiveness and simplification. But I hesitate to refer to the other settings. So I allow myself to say in the end: I believe that decisions are now in the process of making that brings us significant steps forward in industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3664	I want to start by saying that I think we have a great starting point in common – enormous opportunities. In the country, we have huge natural resources. We have long industrial experience and considerable competence. We have leading industrial environments and highly educated people. We have a lot of understanding of production and a lot of capital. We have high digital competence as a population, and we're very adaptable. Yes, we all have opportunities. Everything facilitates growth, value creation and not least a labour market where everyone has a job to do. Unfortunately, it is despite all the possibilities that we still have record high unemployment. It is good that there are positive signs there, but the concern is that the job growth is very low. Despite this, then, the government parties – naturally – pay tribute to the policy that has been in place for the last four years. Understand that one who can, especially if one is concerned about creating values, creating work and creating growth in business. It is worrying that a person mentioned as a growth-promoting tax haven't worked at all. We've been asking for four years about the results of the growth-enhancing tax haven't got answers. The reason for this concern is that unemployment is still high. We now have an employment growth of only 0.6 pst., which is much lower than the population growth. It's going in the wrong direction. So it's this big message, which I think is very good. It is actually a good summary and a good concreteisation of proposals that have been promoted – many of them – during the last four years, but also natural proposals to build on. So it's very good to get it through in Stortinget. But it is a government that is required to make this big message. It was not the government's own initiative that made us get it. I'm not going to criticise the big message, but I'm going to cross-give honey. It is good in many ways, and it is important to get through the measures that lie there. In addition, some more decisions should have been implemented, not least those proposed by the Workers' Party. I hear both the case rapporteur and the Council of State say about Enova, about the aid schemes. In fact, I expect the Enova aid schemes to be fully available to the quota sector. But there is reason for concern that this is actually not the case, not least with what the rapporteur said in his statement, that there are limitations in the quota sector. With regard to the guarantees of origin, which the rapporteur was also in, he completely missed in his analysis of what was said in the Energy Communication. On the contrary, we wanted an investigation, and there is no doubt that the Workers' Party, like the Progress Party, thinks that we need to get a system consistent with what is actually going out of the country, and what can be traded by guarantees of origin. I could include several of those points, but I think it is quite essential that you have been voted on and have a majority for the last proposals that are there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3677	On Saturday I read in the Class Fight that the Workers’ Party was making a big contribution to industrial policy. The party’s commercial policy spoke, among other things: that the Workers' Party wants the State to manually pick up the holdings to be supported. Yes, I know that the example has been used before, but I am a little tempted to ask: How did they feel it worked in Årdal, where the door factory that was hand picked threatened jobs in factories elsewhere in the country and after just a few years was put down with a huge deficit. We left that kind of industrial policy in the 1970s because it didn't work. Politicians rarely have the prerequisites to pick winners in a market, but market losers are often good at picking politicians who give them money. The Labour Party criticises the government for the foundation work, without this being entirely in touch. It is quite right that the Right and Advance Party have presented an entrepreneurial communication with an action plan and increased support to help increase growth and start-ups in Norway, but 70pst. of all the aid paid from Innovation Norway goes to established enterprises, not to entrepreneurs. The Workers' Party will cut the foundation support. We've had record start-ups of new companies in the last two years. It could be a result of the government's tax policy. What is also not entirely at stake is the persistent criticism of passive industrial policy. That article states that the government is using billions of dollars to support and develop business through a number of schemes and organisations. The Labour Party then believes that the government has a passive industrial policy. Both can't be right. There is nothing wrong with supporting industrial development through targeted instruments. The government does so, among other things. through the communications and through measures and strategies for industry, maritime, aquaculture, bioeconomy and tourism, to name a few. However, if we are to get Norway to grow, politicians cannot choose single actors, but they can also facilitate the development of businesses for small and medium-sized enterprises, which in fact represent half of Norway’s value creation and employment. The problem with the Workers' Party's version of active enterprise policy is that it does not work. They increase the tax burden on existing businesses to invest in their competitors or selected industries. Employees in Norwegian companies should really listen when the Workers' Party is talking about active industrial policy. If their enterprise or job is not explicitly mentioned, it is their job that has to pay for the investment of competitors and other industries through tax increases. On one point, however, I agree with the Labour Party. We should have a review of state instruments to look at what has the greatest innovation effect, and clear out those that have little in common. As I know, the government has already started it, but it is good to get signals about something the Workers' Party will not reverse. Let me end by quoting the response from Norwegian Industry when the message came: ‘Signals are not to be taken into account: the Government will have more industry in Norway.’ Freedom is on its way down, growth is on its way up, government policy is on its way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3699	I want to start with some of the key trends we see in our society now, which will shape our industry in the future. We had a dramatic fall in the price of oil in 2014. We have lost 50,000 jobs in oil and gas-related activities. At the same time, 60,000 new jobs have been created in the private sector and 26 000 in the public sector — overall, there is a net increase in employment in a difficult situation. I hear more and more people comparing this situation with a sharp fall in oil prices with a record oil price. It's going to be something like comparing apples and pears. Digitalisation: Our whole society is becoming more and less digitized. It creates new opportunities, and it creates some challenges. I see that the industry in my county is using automation, robotization and digitising its business and creating new competitive opportunities and new competitive advantages. It's positive. Strict environmental requirements: Yes, that's something we all have to deal with in the future. We can choose to relate negatively or positively to that. When I meet company managers and employees in companies in More and Romesdal, they see it as a competitive advantage, a competitive opportunity and an opportunity to create new products and new jobs. I've visited quite a number of companies in my state, and there are some things going on again. It turns out that active industrial policies are not just about grant schemes. It's about infrastructure. The first thing companies point to when I visit them is that they need more and better roads, good infrastructure: we have done something about that. They need an increased focus on innovation, research and development and TaxFUNN: we have done something about that. We've increased our bet on it. There's a record bet in those areas. They need increased awareness and, not least, real science is referred to as incredibly important. In a state where industry is strong, vocational training is extremely important. These are exactly the areas that this government is betting on. Growth-promoting tax havens, which are clearly a four-word on the red-green side: yes, they work. When the company Brunvoll can keep 10 million. kr more every year, that means that they can use that money for something sensible, to create new jobs, to secure existing jobs. That's how it works. It's no more complicated than that. You don't need a research project to figure this out. It's just asking those who have their shoes on and who know where they're pressing. The point is that I think it's done very well. We have an active industrial policy. When someone's talking about nutrition neutrality, that's the opposite we're dealing with. We have a marine strategy, a tourism message, a maritime strategy, a business start-up plan, we strengthen the net pay system, we strengthen Enova, and we are now presenting an industrial report – all this is to build up under the competitive advantages of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3720	The government has steered Norway safely through a difficult period of refugee crisis and the worst oil price drop of 30 years. It is therefore gratifying to see that there are now signs of improvement in the Norwegian economy. The unemployment rate is falling, the growth in the economy is rising, and more people are actually coming to work. In the communication, which is the first of its kind since 1981, the government announces more concrete initiatives. One example is testing centres for business through the catapult system, so that businesses can test out ideas and solutions on a pilot scale before launching on a full scale. The government will also develop a strategy for export and internationalisation to ensure that Norwegian companies have good competitive framework conditions. At the same time, the government will extend the GIEK guarantee offer to include guarantees for loans for investments in export-oriented industry in Norway. If there is something important for new jobs and value creation, it is higher education and research. Throughout the period, the government has prioritised a marked increase in appropriations here. We've been following the long-term plan with more than 2.2 billion. kr only in the last two years. The infrastructure has been considerably strengthened. With the right in government, we've actually reached the goal of granting 1 pst. of GDP for research and development over the State budget. We have increased free project support to promote ground-breaking research, and we have strengthened incentives for good Norwegian participation in the EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation. We have also provided a formidable increase in nutrient research, where programmes such as the BIA, the SkattenFUNN and others contribute to the value creation and growth of Norwegian business. The FORNY programme, which is intended to contribute to the commercialisation of research, has also seen a historic increase in its appropriations. With this message and the government's offensive policy for higher education and research, it sounds incredibly hollow when the Workers' Party repeats its lost message of lack of active enterprise policy. I call this active industrial policy, which will contribute to new and more profitable businesses that can create values and jobs in the future. With regard to the lack of health industry effort, I would just like to remind you that the health and care notification was submitted by this government. We've given 3 billion. D more for industrial research, and the health industry is a large proportion of this. We have also contributed to the creation of a dedicated health cluster at Oslo Cancer Cluster, and the seed fund, which was added to Bergen, is just about to bring innovation in health. So the government is doing well for an active business policy, so that we can create values in the future and new jobs and ensure well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3735	It is not often a hearer of so much self-esteem and self-glory as what we have heard from the government parties today about the great business policy being pursued. Then the question is: why are no more jobs created? No, the growth-enhancing tax policy has not worked, together with – I repeat – business neutrality with general schemes. Ove Trellevik indicated that we had a few suggestions. I would like to remind you that many of the proposals that the government has included in the communication – and we are pleased about that – are proposals that the Workers' Party has made in the past. Process21 we promoted three years ago in the budget. It was voted down. The same with loan guarantees, the Top Industrial Center a year ago. The brand industry, which has been important, we haven't had an impact on, and we were just downplayed when we had a proposal here on a raise for the mineral industry with many important points. In the case of public acquisitions, I agree that the schemes we put in in relation to environmental requirements are paying off, but the NHO has been very busy getting even better innovation in public acquisitions. So a risk-relief scheme is important. It was the majority for that time, it's the majority for today, and I really hope now that the government takes it seriously. As regards the relationship between physical exports of power and the export of guarantees of origin, we must at least look at this, and not least at the possibilities for data centres, which are pointed out by the major actors, we must also look forward to it. Today, Google and others establish themselves in Denmark and abroad based on Norwegian power, while the establishment in Norway may be tied up with coal power. It's clear that it's not lucky to develop at least that industry. So we've promoted a lot of the proposals that lie there, and we're glad they're now included in the message. I have also mentioned in my article today three other suggestions that I hope and believe we will have a majority for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3748	The representative of Omland would like to accuse the government parties of boasting too much, but there has never been more suture from the opposition either. When the representative of Aasland goes to the pulpit and says that the unemployment rate is record high, it's proven to be wrong. The vacancy flattened out in July last year, and after New Year's, it has fallen every month. Then it is practically and theoretically impossible that the unemployment rate is record high. That's not true. It's impossible that it's right. So to the debate on who initiated this big message. Several from the Workers' Party have mentioned this. The representative Botten also mentioned it in the class fight this weekend. I don't think it's a very interesting debate, but it's the way it was an overall committee that voted to promote an industrial notification. We also promoted the proposal in the period 2005-2009, from 2009 to 2013, and the Labour Party voted against both times. It could have done that we had discussed the industrial message before 30 years had passed since the previous one, but now we are discussing more than 30 years after the previous industrial message. You should look yourself in the mirror before you criticize anyone else. So to the eternal debate on a business-active or passive policy: I think the Stortinge can get an answer to – when the Botten again goes out in the class struggle and says that the state should ‘hand-pick businesses’ – what businesses are not to be hand-picked? What businesses are losing in competition when the Botten and her peers are going to pick the winners? I think the Stortinget and the companies in Norway deserve an answer to that. Earlier in the debate, it was mentioned that one of the reasons why we are pursuing a so-called passive industrial policy is the fact that regional development funds have been cut. I've been in the county before, in the Regional Development Committee. There I had the pleasure of voting against the proposal to give several hundred thousand kroner to Birka, the National Centre for Art and Crafts. Is this what the Labour Party and the Centre industries are going to invest in through regional development funds and other so-called active industrial policies? If that's the truth, it doesn't contribute to many jobs in the industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3765	In my first post, I praised the unity of the setting. After listening to the debate, I noticed that it is soon a choice. For it is a fact that there is broad agreement on most of the measures proposed. So the opposition has called for some more. But I have to say that when I listen to the brilliance and self-criticism of the government party, that's how I'm worried that I'm going to get a blue stick on the eardrum, because it's completely unhindered. Voice points penetrated through the air. I think it's a huge problem that the government party won't see that we have big challenges. There are still major challenges. It is not that a person can measure how things go in the country by looking at how high the unemployment rate is. We need to increase our export income, we need to develop new industries. That's what we're calling for, that's where the ill will lie. But there's no answer when you're as happy as we've heard today. A rose is that one followed up the national transport plan, which was attached before the last choice. That's what one has done. One hasn't followed him up by over 10 billion. 20 B.C.E. kr or 30 brd. kr or 500 brd. kr, as promised. No, one has followed him up, and then one is so happy – so happy. But it's dangerous to be as happy as the government party is now. This causes a host to be passive, so a person does not do the job as a shell. The representative, Ove Trellevik, is also able to go to the pulpit and the debt of the Labour Party and the Central Party for the government that is not going to happen. Although we have seen that there is a strenuous relationship between the government party and the supporting party, it can't be so crazy that it's the Labour Party and the Center Party's fault when the government doesn't get more for its proposals. We have four parties that have taken responsibility for governing the country. Then they'll take that responsibility, and then they'll have the majority they have, and we'll do what we can to change that multiple. Then ask the case spokesperson about who wants to lose on our policy. My goal is that the unnecessary growth of bureaucrats under this government will lose. My goal is that the bureaucrats who have been appointed to ensure that other bureaucrats do not come up with bureaucratic rules, so-called the Council of Rules, will lose their minds on our policies. For we need a real simplification policy, we need a comprehensive simplification policy, but we can't do that if we're as happy as the Right Party and the Progress Party is today. That's what I thought one should think a little bit about, because it's a dangerous development. For after all, today we are dealing with a message of which there is broad agreement. Then one should base it, but one must be impatient.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3780	There's no doubt that everyone has the intention that you want the best. But the husband of self-crust is long since I've heard, and the rhetoric goes over and over again. At least it's obvious that you're in a car before you go to this pulpit. Let me first say that I am also pleased that we have once again received an industrial message. In a known style, the government is trying to take all the credit for it. We who are sitting in the hall here know that this is not the case, but it's good that it's on the table today. It's now that at least we in the Workers' Party want to build this country, and we obviously don't want to sell it out. I see that it's harebled with it, too. But it's just because we're describing the policy that's been pursued these four years, that we're saying that and we're worried about it. It is important that we have strong and good enterprises in Norway, and not least that is important in terms of jobs. I just have to say that I'm worried if this government is going to continue, considering some of the things that are going to happen. At least you can't sit on your chest and say that you've succeeded in the strategy you've taken so far – which has been tax cuts. Then one would think that it had blossomed out in the country, even though we have had a crisis. But it's not like that. You're standing on this pulpit today trying to tell me that everything is going very well out, and that it's almost such that there's low unemployment. Yes, it's a little lower, but there's still a record high unemployment rate, and it's not employment growth. If you don't take it in, you have a big challenge. There is almost no job creation under this government. Five times more jobs were created under the red-green government – that’s fact – and two thirds of them were in the private sector. Then you can hope and find bad examples of regional development funds not doing well, and use them against the scheme. But we who have been out in the municipalities and seen that it can be used very well, also to facilitate jobs, know how important such means can be. So to my main point, the CO2 compensation scheme. We all remember what happened in the autumn of 2013, when we were about to rage against the powerful industry. I just have to say, I'm not impressed by the job that's been done so far. When you are also so little forward-looking in this communication about the future scheme, I am concerned that you cannot get in place and be much clearer about what this means. It means something to 11,000 jobs abroad that we have a good system for CO2 compensation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3795	Let me start by saying that I think it has been a good debate, and I fully agree with the head of the nutrition committee, Pollestad, that all in all there is a great deal of consensus. And I'm glad that the government agrees with its policy, because it's based on industry's input, industry's policy, and that's what we've been working on. I was slightly abandoned over these persistent claims that the message was too late. The size is on very many occasions announced, both when we started working, and when we had planned to stop it. Then, of course, we will only be able to see that an industrial report has been received during this period of government. You didn't get it for eight red-green years, even though you're going to be like something else later. It is also a fascinating description of the history of the permitting rules. It's true that there was disagreement, but I just have to say that if the government had done what the Workers' Party wanted in 2014, many more people would have lost their jobs, because they would have used up the leave period much faster, and we had lost important skills in the industry. We kept saying that we should change it when we think it's the basis for it, and we did. But 50,000 jobs cannot be replaced overnight. Let me also take a visit to tax. It doesn't work, says it. Then I wonder who you're talking to, who you're visiting, and what you're getting. This isn't a theoretical exercise, it's the reality of businesses out there. The real taxes on wealth are for Norwegian companies. They're taken by it, foreign companies don't. There are companies that are struggling, that are not collecting dividends and wages, but are collecting money to pay taxes on wealth. I have met company owners who say that the alternative to the property tax was to invest in a machine. So it seems to change it. The inheritance fee works. We have many family-run businesses that were taken by the inheritance fee, which prevented completely necessary generation changes. Obviously, it works when it's removed. I guess that's why no one has suggested reintroducing it. And yes, there's a difference between paying 28 pst. and 24 pst. corporation tax. It's a big difference for those who actually pay it. So this isn't a theoretical exercise. Lowering taxes and taxes works, and that's why we've done it. As a result, the input from industry in this work has also been that they want lower taxes and taxes, more focus on transport and more entrepreneurial research. It has been the main message from the industry when we have asked them. Let me also take one point on simplification. It was said that the red-green government simplified for 5 billion. in two years. As far as I know, the red-green government put in eight. You did 5 billion. in eight years, and then you can hardly blame this government for making 10 billion. in four. I'm impatient. I want to move on. Simplification is very important. We should not take credit for what we have not done, but for what we have done. Let me just end by saying that the top industrial center was not established a year ago, and it's the industry itself that has recorded it. And with that: Thank you for your cooperation with the Committee for almost four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3814	I want to start with the look-up in the class struggle, which many people from the Right have brought with them. It's very good to read in the media, but that's not always exactly what you said. I would like to point out that what was important to me in that article was that it must be possible to be small, medium and large, and that we must have an instrument that builds up under it. Taking the sevenfold approach to establishing grants from 2011 until now does not help. It is not safe to build the biggest winners, but we need to look at the other possibilities of grants, of tools, that can build under it too – not only national winners, but also international big winners. I think we have to do both. To Helge Orten, who talked about NTP: Yes, NTP was made by the previous government, but you haven't exactly overfilled NTP, at least not in the county of Helge Orten. Helge Ortet himself said that now the new project comes with, but you have actually not delivered on what you should have done the four years that have now been. E39, crab field across the Ørskog mountain, is a good example of that – unfortunately. For ICT study places: the Workers' Party has repeatedly proposed 1 000 more places of study than the government has done. To Bjørnstad and record unemployment: Yes, the record unemployment rate has fortunately decreased. There was a record high leave in July last year, but the time off has become a little less. That's very good. But it was the Right Party and the Advance Party that were in government a year ago, too, so you actually have to think that you've been in the post when that challenge was greatest. And then you can wonder what has contributed to the wind turning around, whether it is the government, or whether there are other things. So to the industry message, which one boasts that one has now received. I just have to remind you that Trond Giske made a big message in 2013 that called Mangfold of winners. It was an industry message that had a wide bet, which the government quickly put in the drawer, and they have rested on the laurels until now. So to the fantastic Council of Rules that the Minister of Industry has established, which was to contribute to great progress on simplification. What I was referring to in my post was that on 1 January 2011, a simplification effort was started. From 1 January 2011 to 2013, there were simplifications of 5.5 billion. From 2013 until now, there have been simplifications of 7 billion. kr. That means you've had a much later pace with this government than in the last two years, as it was shown, with our government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3830	The representative, Odd Omland, said in his speech that the parties of government are self-glorification of their business policy and are silently boasting of their policies. Today, the newspaper Fädrelandsvenn says: ‘We were early out with more targeted action packages that had contributed to lower leave, as we did in 2009 when we rescued Alcoa Lister, the Bildelfabrik and created activity in all municipalities.’ I have now talked to several people who know this matter, and there are very few who recognize themselves in this description. The Bildel factory actually went bankrupt in 2009. Customers, who were BMW, Ferrari and Porsche, went along with employees and others in and guaranteed further operations, and the company got back on its feet and is now operated by Benteler. So can the representative Odd Omland tell you what they did to save Alcoa at the List and the Bildelfactory, or is this also just rhetoric without root in reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3840	Since the Left now, according to Today's Business Life, has established a best friend strategy, we also need to talk a little bit neatly about what we mean we get together with the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party, and with the Christian People's Party, and I think we get a lot. Then we have to look a few years back. If we go back eight years, we were in a financial crisis, and then one could say that there has been an oil price crisis now. But when the Workers' Party trades and trades about that unemployment: yes, it is unfortunately a little too high. But in my county, Oppland, it's record low, not record high. In May now in 2017 it was at 1.5 pst, in May 2009 it was at 2.8 pst, so that picture is not completely unambiguous. So was the Minister of Industry for Research. Under the red-green government there was probably a break in research, and it was probably rested in that government as well. Now it's a significant escalation. It benefits business, it benefits, as the representative of Kjerkol also benefits the hospital sector, the health sector and the future health industry. So back to Uppland, where we have more than 5,200 small businesses with fewer than 10 employees. In Hedmark, I think it's almost the same number, so it's a significant number. At least they're happy to get less property taxes, because they're not of those who strive to make dividends. No, on the contrary, they must invest in operating resources, in construction, in construction and not least in employees, and the tourism industry goes down. They take knowledge from many other countries, employees from many other countries. They're totally dependent on it. When unemployment is as low as it is in Uppland now — and in Hedmark — we are totally dependent on mobility in the labour market. Then we can refer to something that was not directly related to industrial policy, but the user fee was reintroduced to biodiesel in 2008, it was well, and it led to industrial biofuel production in Norway being completely parked just when they were about to set up a factory. If we had a factory in place, we would have had much more production of it in Norway today. But there were many factors that didn't exactly bring us forward, for the Left's part. We have good friends now, we have never negotiated this with the Workers' Party. We might have gotten something like that, but I'm a little unsure if we're going to dry that chance, when we look back.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3853	The reason I took the floor was that both the representative Pollestad and the representative Juvik are obviously annoyed that we are just standing here and boasting about ourselves, and that we are not taking seriously the situation we are in, over us. But then I don't think neither Pollestad nor Juvik have read what the message says, or heard what we're actually saying, because we're clearly saying that we're facing a change, and we're clear that we have to enter into it. That's why we come up with this message and express the situation and come up with concrete measures to meet the transformation we're in. So you have to be allowed to say that you're happy that unemployment goes down, that growth goes up, and that you get more jobs. With regard to the government's R & D policy, it's not just us who boast of it. In connection with the 2017 budget, we were able to read in the NIFU State Budget Analysis that R & D expenditure has never accounted for a greater share of the State budget. It is simply the end of the Jojo budget for investment in research and education. Investments in research and education reach new heights. The Director of the Research Council said in connection with this State budget: ‘We have never experienced such predictability before! In fact, we have never experienced anything similar to a multiannual budget for research." That's significant. We've been working on research from day one. Already in the adjusted budget for 2013 we “shut” up by half a billion dollars compared to the budget provided by the red-green government. And we've been following up in every budget since. The environment sees it, the statistics show it. It is an important part of preparing for the future and being able to create new jobs and ensure well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3869	I should like to thank you immediately for the debate, but I think there are a few things that hang from the debate. These include: the continued rise in the number of labour party politicians in the pulpit and the high record of unemployment. If it's not allowed to say that someone has a hard time doing it, I'd rather say that there's a need for adult education in this room. Because that's how unemployment in May was at 2.6 pst. - Down from 2.9 pst. in May of last year. If it is record high, it is actually not possible – I remember, despite my relatively young age, that unemployment has been higher than 2.6 pst., so it cannot vote. I think it's like when you've run out of arguments, you start rhetoric. Then you start talking about self-pity with the other party instead of talking about your own policy. It has been the end of this debate. The representative Botten said that Trond Giske had completed an industrial report. That's not right. It was a very general business report, summarising actions, strategies, action plans, etc. There was no industrial notification; there was a communication without concrete proposals and measures. So my previous question still hangs with the representative Botten again in the air. Whether you think the state should pick companies by hand or not – it is possible that there is misquote – there is at least something in it, that it is the state that is going to go in and somehow pick out who is going to get, and who is not going to get. When you accuse us of a passive industrial policy, it must mean that you think that someone gets too much. If one is to pursue a more nuanced industrial policy, one must give priority to it. Some have to get more, and some have to get less. Then I think the representative Botten or others from the opposition can answer who they think – with today's regime – gets too much from SkattenFUNN, too much from the User-Controlled Innovation Arena, who gets too much of the tax relief, who gets too much of the transport promise in recent years. It's like if you're going to prioritize something, something else needs to be downgraded. Who these losers will be in the business world of the future will not be answered. The Storting doesn't get an answer to that. You're told that a lot of people have to be lifted. But if you pick someone up, it's at the expense of someone else. But who the others are, we don't get an answer. Finally, I would like to thank you for a good debate and, as I said at the outset, for a good work in the Committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3882	I just thought to round off for my part as well. It was an interesting debate, I think it's fun to discuss a little business policy and not just transport policy, although there are two sides to the same thing. I registered that the representative Pollestad was a little dissatisfied that perhaps some of us seemed a little satisfied. It is possible that he confused contentment with enthusiasm. We talked about conversion and the need for conversion long before the 2013 elections. Our policy is that we had to go through a transformation phase. That is why it is important for us to ensure that we have a strong commitment to culture, as an important part of our food policy. That is why it is important for us to have a record-breaking commitment to innovation, research, development and the TaxFUNN, because it contributes to the transition process. Therefore, it is important to invest in real science, in professional skills, in the professions and to ensure that industry has the professionals they need and the skills they need to develop further. That is why it is also important for us to ensure that we reduce taxes on wealth, simply because if we allow companies to keep more of their capital, I am quite convinced – at least based on all the feedback I get through my company visits – that then the companies use that money wisely, to secure existing jobs, to stimulate innovation activities, to create new jobs and products, and to ensure that new jobs, and profitable jobs, come into place. The enthusiasm I showed for that policy – if it was perceived that I am satisfied, it is wrong: I am pleased that we have got as much as we have done, but I am not satisfied that we should have achieved that goal, because we do not. On the day we are on target, I have to promise both Pollestad and others that I will end up in politics. What's important here is to continue with that policy, because it's precisely this policy that our businesses and our business community are asking to help us continue to have a pressure on the transition processes, so that we can still have the pressure to create new jobs. That's why I'm enthusiastic, and that's why I'm also happy that we're able to implement the policy we went to elections in 2013. I think that must be all the way in. So a little recording to the representative Juvik. I don't think it's very informative in the debate to constantly compare job creation – the job creation we're seeing now, in a situation with a dramatic fall in oil prices, and a situation in the previous ten to fifteen years with record oil prices and a large growth in that sector. It's like comparing apples and pears – and it doesn't tell the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3893	If self-crust is to admit challenges, I wonder if some red-green speakers do that when comparing the oil price drop that we've experienced with what happened to the financial crisis. If you think that saying that we hit the medication, we hit the dosage, and we came up with the measures at the right time, is self-confident, then I recognize that we actually boast a little. I also think it is a bit funny when the representative Botten talks about moll. It must be when I mentioned what the Workers' Party actually wrote in its remark. They wrote: 'has reacted too late, too weak and too unfocused'. Then I ask: does not the Workers' Party recognise that investing in transport and infrastructure that companies are asking for, investing in nutrient research and development, investing in targeted tax credits that keep industry and business more of the taxes themselves, are active industrial policies? Is it that the more backward policy and action are, the more active it is? Who should be given priority when giving priority? Because you also have to recognize that if you're going to prioritize someone, you're going to have to prioritize others. We don't get an answer to that. That is the interesting thing that the rapporteur was also talking about. That's what's interesting about discussing the priority that the Workers' Party obviously has. I notice that the representative Botten withdraws a little from the statement in the class struggle, but it is enough of the statements in the industry position that point in the same direction. You think you have a glass ball. You point to hydrogen. I have great faith in hydrogen, I, but I'm not able to say if it's much better than anything else. In Hamar, in my home country, we talk about the gambling industry as the big industry of the future. I see that it's a very active environment, that develops a lot of interesting things, but I can't tell if they're better than everyone else. I think Heidi Nordby Lunde said it very well: politicians are not well-suited to pick winners, but market losers are well-suited to pick politicians who distribute money to them. They're very good at that, and we've seen a lot of examples of that. I want to repeat what I said at the end of my post: the Workers' Party's signal that they should manually pick up the companies to be supported is an indication of future disasters and a signal of a national failure of large dimensions and consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3906	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 11-13.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e3922	No one has asked for the floor. Case No. 15–22 are the second time legal proceedings. The President will propose that these matters be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4017	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 15-22.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4036	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3 from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government agrees that the allowances for depositors, government members and prime minister are adjusted accordingly an increase of 0.9 per cent of an average retirement pension of SEK 230 000, with effect from 1 May 2017: Stortingsrepresentatives: SEK 908 994 Government members: SEK 1 296 282 Prime Minister: SEK 1 595 308»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4053	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The amount consents to the remuneration of depositors, members of the government and prime minister being adjusted by 0.9 per cent, corresponding to the social security bill of the year, and is determined as follows, with effect from 1 May 2017: Depositary representatives: SEK 915 090 Government members: SEK 1 305 864 Prime Minister: SEK 1 607 581’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4070	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In line with the krone wage growth of an employee with average wages, the Stortinget agrees that the following remuneration is determined with effect from 1 May 2017: Storingsrepresentatives: SEK 915 828 Government members: SEK 1 303 116 Prime Minister: SEK 1 602 142’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4119	The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4151	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Mr Juvik, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to design a comprehensive aviation strategy for Norway in its own biggest message.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4184	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Mr Rommetveit on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a rollover notice on the taxi industry.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4217	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 2, from Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No 3 and 4, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the appointment of a Data Protection Commission that assesses privacy challenges.’ The Central Party, the Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4246	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to make proposals to the Storting to ensure that Internet service providers store subscription information and IP addresses for at least six months.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4261	I voted wrong. I had to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4266	The result is that 17 voted in favour and 78 voted against the proposal of the Progress Party – and the proposal is therefore not accepted. There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to assess the most effective measures to combat child abuse and abuse across the Internet, including an assessment of strengthening police competences and resources. For this reason, the experience gained in storing IP addresses is requested for 3 weeks. 'The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4283	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to the Storting to ensure that Internet service providers store subscription information and IP addresses for up to six months.’ The Progress Party has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4310	The Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Environment Party The Greens have announced subsidiary support for the suspension. The Left and the Left have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4324	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4373	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Mr Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a comprehensive and independent evaluation of foreign and development policy instruments in Norwegian policies towards the Palestinians and Israel. The evaluation shall include a review and assessment of objectives, instruments and alliances that have been used since the conclusion of the Oslo Agreement, in order to ensure that Norway pursues the most appropriate policy to contribute to the establishment of an independent and independent Palestinian State and to ensure a lasting peace agreement between Israel and Palestine.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4426	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Ola Elvestuen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party. The proposals are being voted on. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the Norwegian defense owns helicopter support for the Army located at Bardufoss.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the central helicopter environment is maintained at Bardufoss in order to achieve operational and logistic synergies for efficient operation and to ensure that operational and technical management, education, training, maintenance, logistics and administration functions remain at Bardufoss’. The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4466	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1–5, from Else-May Botten on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 6 and 7, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 8, by Else-May Botten on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens proposal No 9, by Torgair Knag Fylkesnes on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 10, by Else-May Botten on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the instrument and to focus its efforts on strategically important industries where the growth and value creation potential is high, we have natural or competence advantages, and there are major interactions with technology and competence across industries.’ [[i]] [[ii]] [[iii]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to implement a ‘digital wash’ in which the law is evaluated against new technological opportunities, such as autonomy and large-scale data, and to make proposals to remove barriers to innovation’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the CO 2 compensation scheme is continued at the current level by at least 75 pst. compensation also after 2020.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend Enova’s mandate and programmes in order to include the ETS sector on equal terms with non-quota industries.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4522	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for measures for the exploitation of waste from fisheries and aquaculture and organic waste from industry for the production of biogas and bio-fertilisers. The investigation shall make visible the value-generating effects of the full exploitation of the waste.’» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate how the government can ensure stronger national anchoring for key strategic industries’. The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4546	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up requirements under the Public Acquisitions Act that all new ferries and scheduled boats use low or zero emission technologies when the technology so requires.’ The Labour Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4563	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote the Stortinget proposal for a new scheme in GIEK that covers both political and commercial risks associated with renewable investment in developing countries, so that it can be addressed in the context of the State budget for 2018.’ The Central Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4580	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up requirements under the Public Acquisition Act that all new ferries and scheduled boats use low or zero emission technologies when the situation indicates that this is possible.’ The Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4598	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Commission to review the scope of State loan and guarantee schemes for Norwegian industry, within the EEA Agreement, and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), the Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4638	It shall be counted against II, III and IV. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4652	It's going to wrestle over you.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4679	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1–5, from Pål Farstad on behalf of the Left. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to carry out a full review of rules, regulations and laws governing business with a view to reorganising rules, regulations and laws which are no longer necessary or which have played their part. As part of such work, the Stortinget Government is asking the Government to make proposals to abolish the conversion law.’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess whether and, where appropriate, how the UK scheme ‘one in, two out’ can be transferred to Norway and to provide such an assessment in the context of the 2018 State budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4703	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. One, four and five from the left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The Government is asked to submit proposals as soon as possible in line with the Accounting Act Committee's recommendation to remove the requirement for annual report for smaller enterprises and proposals for the concrete implementation of limited accounting obligations for small enterprises.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in the context of the 2018 State Budget to propose raising the turnover limit for the right to an annual VAT-to-task term to a minimum of 2 million. crowns.’» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government requests the continuation of current provisions relating to the reporting and taxation of staff discounts and benefits in kind relating to third parties’.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4748	A total of 15 proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1–15, from Pål Farstad on behalf of the Left. The proposals are being voted on. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a shift in research from fossil to green so that climate considerations are at the root of an explicit criterion for the allocation of research and innovation funds, where appropriate.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that research and education institutions financed mainly by the public establish strategies to contribute to green competitiveness.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for low-emission solutions to be given priority throughout the public sector.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take an initiative with other Nordic owners to assess a possible merger between the Nordic Investment Bank and the Nordic Environment Finance Corporation.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for support for a trend towards more consistent and comparable climate-related reporting across countries, sectors and enterprises through the process of progress, such as the introduction of its Financial Stability Board recommendation standard for climate-related risk reporting when it is available.’ [[FSB]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the public sector purchasing power to accelerate the green shift and stimulate innovation and technology adoption by actively promoting innovative and climate-friendly products and services and stimulating green innovation through its purchases.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government in an appropriate manner, and in cooperation with the industries concerned, to submit a plan for the operationalisation of the road maps of the various industries to achieve the zero emission targets in 2050.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of electronic road pricing, especially for heavy traffic, which facilitates the most rational use of vehicles and infrastructure in line with the recommendations of the Green Tax Commission.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for concessions to be used to secure markets for green solutions and efficient resource use in line with the recommendations of the Green Competitiveness Expert Committee.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for targeted technology development by setting up a strategic body responsible for monitoring industry road maps, a Process21, equivalent OG21 and Energy21.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the preparation of sensitivity analyses of demand and carbon price in relation to plans for the development and operation of any new fields.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the instruments to be set up in agriculture to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and trigger increased demand for more climate-friendly food and products, based on high quality, unique Norwegian advantage and high use of the Norwegian resource base.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to develop simpler and more appropriate agreed methods of life-cycle considerations that promote good consumer choice.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to facilitate the increased use of wood in construction, inter alia, by further developing standards and strengthening cooperation between the wood industry and the R & D environment on research, innovation and development of competences.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to step up research efforts towards marine industries.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4871	Case No. 15–22 are the second reading of legislative acts and relate to legislative acts 115 to 122. There are no comments, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-15.ana.ud176e4887	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
