ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e78	Representatives Sverre Myrli, Gunvor Eldegard, Oskar J. Grimstad, Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, Anna Ljunggren, Hege Haukeland Liadal, Trond Giske and Jorodd Asphjell, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Tove-Lise Torve For Oslo: Frode Helgerud and Ann Kathrine Skreyshammer The Workers' Party's Depositary Group has requested permission from the representative Kåre Simensen on 18 and 19 April to attend the World Bank's parliamentary network meeting in Washington. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first representative of the Finnmark County, Ingarill Olsen, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the permission of the representative Kåre Simensen, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of the Finnmark County, Runar Seestad, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e148	Runnar Seestad is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e166	The EU and European countries are our most important partners. No international actor characterises Norwegian society more than the European Union. An entire generation has grown up with the possibility of taking education, the possibility of working and the possibility of establishing freely throughout the EEA territory. We have had the right to social security benefits and health care wherever in the EEA territory we have found ourselves. These possibilities, which have become a matter of course for us nordics, are now at risk of losing the British people. Still, someone here argues at home that we should do as the British do. We should leave European cooperation and replace our EEA Agreement with a free trade agreement. The EEA Agreement gives us a level playing field in a single single market, and it gives us the right to participate in the drafting of legislation for this market. The government believes that it is very important for Norwegian businesses and a number of other social actors to be involved in this community. When those who are opposed to the EEA claim that we can get a better deal, many questions arise. In particular, it is important to bear in mind that the balance between the EU and the EEA/EFTA countries is somewhat different today from when the EEA Agreement was negotiated. It is difficult to expect that Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland will be able to negotiate a better agreement with the 28 EU Member States today than the six EFTA States were able to negotiate with the 12 EU Member States when we were given the EEA Agreement. In addition, the EEA Agreement deals with much more than just customs and trade barriers. It's about opportunities and rights for all of us, to study, to research and to work. It's about safe food. It's about growth and employment. It's about cooperation to take care of the environment. This cooperation is made possible by common rules and rights. And the agreement is about solidarity and cooperation with our neighbouring countries. At the same time, we are concerned that the free movement should not challenge the sustainability of our welfare state. Labour migration has led to the export of social security benefits to other EEA countries, and there are challenges related to unprofessional activities and unacceptable pay and working conditions. A more detailed description of the government's work on these challenges will be presented later. Six magnifications and seven governments have been governed by the EEA Agreement since 1994. In the last 23 years, scrupulous governments and staggering increases have maintained Norway’s relationship with the EU, because it has served our national interests well, and because it has served the Nordics well. Turkey's referendum on the constitutional changes ended with a very even result. It is now up to international observers from the OSCE/ODIHR and the Council of Europe to assess how the referendum has taken place. The constitutional changes proposed in Turkey are very far-reaching. It is therefore essential for Turkish authorities to seek the widest possible national consensus in the follow-up and implementation, which also takes into account the international principles of freedom of expression and legal certainty to which Turkey has acceded. It remains to be seen whether the constitutional changes will have consequences for Turkey's approach to the EU, but we can already conclude, in the light of the elections, that international and European cooperation on the development of democracy must be high on the political agenda of the EU. On 29 March, the United Kingdom gave its formal notice of withdrawal from the European Union. The EU has responded that it will adopt its negotiating mandate at its own summit on brexit on 29 April. First, an outsourcing agreement has to be negotiated. Then an agreement regulating the future relationship between the EU and the United Kingdom is to be found. It is this agreement that is particularly important for Norway. Norway is not a party to the forthcoming announcement negotiations with the United Kingdom. Our job is to ensure the best possible trade policy cooperation with the United Kingdom, while respecting Norway’s agreements with the EU. Prime Minister Theresa May has clarified that the United Kingdom will no longer be a member of the internal market. The UK Government considers that this is not compatible with the objective of limiting labour immigration from the EU. The United Kingdom also does not wish to be subject to the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Instead, there is a desire to negotiate a trade agreement that gives the best possible access to the EU's internal market. Norway is not an ordinary third party to the outsourcing negotiations because of its close integration into the EU internal market. It is important that the negotiated solutions also fit into an EEA context where appropriate. Norway wishes to be included in joint solutions, both permanent and transitional, between the EU and the United Kingdom in areas affecting the internal market. In the outsourcing negotiations, the EU will be particularly concerned with the UK’s financial obligations, border issues and not least with the rights of EU/EEA citizens in the United Kingdom. For Norway, the last issue is central, as it will also have an impact on EFTA/EEA citizens living in the United Kingdom and British residents living in Norway. Our aim is to negotiate a comprehensive and comprehensive form of bilateral agreement with the British, alone, with the EEA/EFTA-3 countries or with the EFTA4 countries. At the same time, it is very important that the EEA Agreement and the other agreements with Norway are respected with the EU. The United Kingdom is a major trading partner, but the remaining Member States constitute an even larger market for Norwegian goods and services. Norway deserves the best possible relationship with both parties and the EU and the United Kingdom to reach a sustainable agreement. There is hardly any country that has had more meetings with the United Kingdom at government level after the Brexit vote than Norway. We have a good dialogue on trade policy issues. We do that because we want to have the best possible cooperation with the United Kingdom even after Brexit. At the same time, the government has committed itself to the institutions of the European Union in Brussels and to the Member States of the European Union. We have met open doors for our desire for close dialogue. Continued functioning of the EEA is in the EU’s interest. It was also the clear message from EU negotiator Michel Barnier when he was in Oslo earlier this year. We have also recently held follow-up meetings with Barnier’s team at the level of their duties. The internal market is based on common rules, not only for trade in goods but also for services and movements of capital and persons. The EEA Agreement gives Norwegian companies full access to the EU's internal market by following the same legislation as EU countries. The debate after Brexit has clearly shown that it is difficult to have full access to the internal market if you do not want to join the EU or the EEA. Full participation in the internal market requires acceptance of the four freedoms and an independent dispute resolution system, as we have in the EEA with ESA and the EFTA Court. The EEA funds are one of the main instruments of government European policy. Under the slogan ‘Together for a green, competitive and inclusive Europe’, we are negotiating new framework agreements for the period up to 2021. 2.8 B.C.E. The euro shall be distributed. Compared to the previous period, the annual amount has increased by 11 pst. This is roughly equivalent to EU inflation in the previous agreement period. At the same time, we extend the contract period from today's five years to seven years. It helps to increase the total amount of funds, but it also gives us better time to prepare and implement programmes, which in turn will contribute to better results. So far, we have signed framework agreements with four beneficiary countries: Romania, Slovakia, Bulgaria and Malta. Negotiations with the other 11 beneficiary countries are under way. The aim is to complete the negotiations by the end of 2017. We prioritise key areas of cooperation for European competitiveness, such as our own programmes for business development and innovation, education and research. We will strengthen civil society, defend freedom of expression and protect human rights defenders and other vulnerable groups. We are intensifying cooperation with the recipient countries on the criminal action chain. Strengthening Norway’s bilateral relationship with the recipient countries is also an important part of the negotiations. Norway benefits from the EEA financial instruments. Norwegian trade unions continue their cooperation as professional advisers in different thematic areas. The Government and the European Commission agree on a new agreement under Article 19 of the EEA Agreement on trade in agricultural products. The agreement will be submitted to the Stortinget for treatment as soon as possible. In the negotiations, the government’s starting point has been to find solutions that facilitate trade, while at the same time taking care of important Norwegian agricultural interests. The result is well anchored in Norwegian agricultural policy. Let me mention some of the main points of the agreement. For Norway, the outcome of the negotiations implies the establishment into the EU of duty-free or duty-free quotas for exports of a number of products we are already exporting, or where the food industry has specific export plans. Norway has essentially granted concessions to the EU for agricultural products where there are already imports at regular customs duties or where there is a long-term import need. Therefore, the agreement itself leads to a small increase in imports of these goods. For cheese, the duty-free import quota is increased by 1200 tonnes to 8400 tonnes. Imports of cheese from the EU in 2016 were more than 11 300 tonnes, i.e. there is a large import of cheese outside the quota at normal customs duties. In the previous Article 19 agreement, concluded under the Government of Stoltenberg II, the import quota for cheese was increased by 2700 tonnes. The EU beef quota is increased by 1600 tonnes to 2500 tonnes. In recent years, the customs duties on imports of beef have been reduced for long periods due to deficits in the Norwegian market. In 2016, 15 600 tonnes of beef were imported after such a tariff reduction. The increase in quotas is therefore limited in relation to existing imports and expected import needs in the coming years. No concessions have been granted to the EU for sheep and lamb meat. There is currently a demanding market situation in the Norwegian market. The quota for flowering pot plants is increased by 12 million. NOK 20 million. kr. The quota size is also here within the current import. For some non-protected agricultural products, customs duties on each other are zero. EU environmental legislation, which created challenges for the export of Norwegian seafood, is now incorporated into the EEA Agreement. It's a pleasure. The industry can now resume the export of Norwegian organic salmon to the Union market. After the Stortinget on 13 June last year had treated Prop. 100 S for 2015-2016 were incorporated into the EEA Agreement the basic acts establishing the EU financial supervision. This was an important breakthrough after several years of work. However, we still have a major lag behind secondary legal acts on the financial markets that remain to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. It concerns the banking, insurance and trading of securities. We give this work a high priority along with our partners. Without uniform legislation, the internal market will not function as intended. Europe is experiencing major migration and refugee challenges. These challenges are not over although the situation is not as dramatic now as it was in 2015 and at the beginning of 2016. A large number of people still want to go to Europe in the hope of a better future, through a dangerous crossing of the Mediterranean Sea. It is important to put in place solutions that limit trafficking and the loss of life, and reduce migration pressures towards Europe. Control and registration at our common external border are essential for the smooth functioning of Schengen cooperation and for free movement within Europe. Norway participates in European management through contributions to border control and contribution to lifesaving. The two Norwegian vessels, ‘Siem Pilot’ and ‘Peter Henry von Koss’, have boarded 33,000 persons since they were deployed. We assist in and around Syria, contribute to relocalization and save lives in the Mediterranean. In addition, we support Greece’s, Italy’s and Serbia’s ability to deal with the situation, including: through the relocalisation of asylum seekers from the two former countries. Through the EEA funds, Norway spends more than 200 million in the current funding period. to strengthen Greece’s ability to deal with refugees and migrants. Fewer asylum seekers and other migrants crossed the Schengen external border irregularly last year than in the previous year, but the situation may change rapidly as a result of developments both inside and outside Europe. It is in the Norwegian interest to reach agreement on a more balanced distribution of asylum seekers in Europe. This is now being discussed as part of the review of the Dublin acquis. We will help to put in place predictable and sustainable solutions. During 2016 and 2017, we will have relocated 1,500 asylum seekers from Italy and Greece. And this year, Norway has offered to resettle 3,000 Syrian refugees. Justice and home affairs work is a high priority in the EU. The situation in Norway is directly affected by the outcome of the discussions. It also includes measures to address the threat of terrorism and organised crime. These are complex challenges that can only be met by pan-European actions. European security is our security. Changes in the security policy landscape in and around Europe mean that cooperation with the EU and EU Member States is becoming increasingly important. This cooperation is central to the government’s communication to the Stortinget on road choices in Norwegian security policy, which will be presented in a few days’ time. In 2016, central EU countries took the initiative to speed up EU security and defence cooperation. This is also a key element of the EU’s global strategy. Norway will closely monitor further developments in this area. At the same time, it is important for Norway to avoid the EU developing defence and security cooperation that draws resources or focuses away from NATO cooperation. Competition with NATO, or duplication of NATO structures, will weaken both organisations and may challenge allied cohesion. That is the broad consensus. Close and good cooperation between NATO and the EU is essential for us. This year, the government will therefore further develop cooperation with the EU institutions and central Member States in areas of common interest. Norway contributed in 2016 to the Commission’s monitoring, analysis and further development of the European defence equipment market. The Government will follow closely the Commission's follow-up to this work, including further work on the implementation of the Directive on the acquisition of defence and security. Today’s complex and demanding security policy situation has also helped to strengthen Nordic dialogue and practical Nordic cooperation. While economic arguments in the past were the driving force for closer Nordic defence cooperation, the development of security policy has now become its own engine of cooperation. Security policy issues are regularly discussed in the Nordic community at both the minimum and the minimum level of office. The sharing of information and assessments provides the basis for a common understanding of the situation and joint management — including in the event of crises. The government will make North Norway one of the most creative and sustainable regions in the country. Economic growth and forward-looking jobs will be created in the north, taking into account the environment and society. In three days' time, 21 April, the government will launch an updated Northern Region Strategy. The world's interest in the Arctic is increasing. Climate change is particularly severe in the north and can affect today's economic and social life. At the same time, the opening of ever-increasing ice-free sea areas provides opportunities for new transport routes and new industrial activities. The world is increasingly in need of food, energy and raw materials. In the north, there are rich fishing and energy resources as well as minerals that the world will need more. Many naturally want to take part in the economic opportunities that exist in the region. International attention on the Arctic creates new opportunities for cooperation for Norway, but also new challenges. More than before, they want to be influenced by the future development of the northern regions. From Norway, there has been a continuous dialogue on the Arctic with the EU institutions for a number of years. This continuity and endurance has been noted. The activity was stepped up from 2014 onwards in the context of the work of the EU Joint Communication. We have welcomed the Arctic Communication presented by the European Commission and the European External Action Service in April 2016. We made a number of contributions to this work when it started. I am pleased that the communication balances well between the sustainable use of natural resources and the protection of the environment. Following the EU Arctic Declaration, the European Parliament has also presented its own Arctic resolution. This resolution is not an expression of the EU Arctic policy, nor is it binding either on the EU Member States or on the EU institutions. However, it could be used politically by actors that will change the Arctic policy of the EU or Member States. Therefore, it has been important for us to follow this process closely as well. We have worked purposely through political and diplomatic channels to ensure that the resolution of the European Parliament takes the utmost account of Norwegian interests. Norway’s main message has been that sustainable use of resources is compatible with climate and environmental considerations. Another important Norwegian message is that the jurisdictional conditions of the Arctic are regulated by the law of the sea. We agree with many of the recommendations contained in the Arctic resolution of the European Parliament. Particularly important for us is the emphasis on the importance of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea as the Arctic legal framework. However, there are also some recommendations on marine management, including: on fishing and protection of marine areas, which, in our view, do not take sufficient account of the rights and responsibilities of coastal States under the law of the sea. The EU maritime policy is of great interest to Norway, and we have many similar interests with the EU here. The Commission presented a maritime notification in November 2016. On 21 February this year, we presented our maritime strategy, and a communication to the United States on the maritime dimension of foreign and development policy was presented on 24 March this year. These documents will be important for further cooperation with the EU on blue growth and other maritime issues. The EU has set high targets for its climate and energy policies. Measures to secure energy supply, slow climate change and provide cheap energy for people and industry are high on the European agenda. Follow-up is taking place in the development of an energy union, which is thus far the largest overall revision of EU energy legislation. Norway has strong interests here. Most of the work concerns us, either through the EEA Agreement, through our role as an energy exporter, or through the intention to jointly implement climate objectives with the EU. The Government will take care of Norwegian energy interests and will continue to adopt Norwegian views when the EU is now preparing new legislation. Norway is and will be a stable supplier of gas to the EU for a long time to come, and we also supply renewable energy to all our neighbouring countries. It is in the Norwegian interest that energy markets function well and that the infrastructure for gas and electricity in the EU be improved. Gas is important for energy security in the EU. It can balance the power systems as the renewable share increases. In addition, gas can contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions when it replaces coal. An agreement with the EU on the joint achievement of the 2030 climate targets may be concluded once the EU has adopted its implementing legislation, probably in the first half of 2018. The Government has opened the way for the agreement to be concluded under Protocol 31 to the EEA Agreement on cooperation outside the four freedoms. Norway is actively involved in the design of the implementing legislation. It is now important to work on new rules for the EU's climate quota system. During February, both Parliament and the Council agreed on common positions, and it is therefore clear for final negotiations between them. Norway supports measures for a higher quota price. A tighter cap will contribute to reduced emissions, higher allowance price and more innovation in the ETS sector. Here we are in line with the majority of EU Member States. At the same time, we need to avoid unintended effects on industry driven by emission-free hydropower, which competes globally. The CO2 compensation rules of the EEA Agreement remain in force until 2020. The aim of the scheme is to compensate the industry for increased electricity prices resulting from the EU ETS, so that we prevent industry from moving to countries with less stringent climate regulation. In contact with the EU, we have stressed that national issues must be the extent of compensation to be granted within the aid ceiling adopted. The proposals that are on the table in the European Union take care of this. Let me also mention the work on new rules for the non-quota sector. This is at the heart of a joint fulfilment agreement. The proposal for a target figure for Norway of minus 40 pst. for emissions from the non-quota sector is a positive signal that we will be assessed on the same basis as the Member States. The regulatory framework for integrating the forest sector into the EU climate and energy framework will also be important for a forest country such as Norway. Nordic cooperation covers most sectors of society. The width, depth and digestion are the main strength of cooperation. Identity and trust have been built over a long time, stone on stone. At the same time, administrative cooperation must be felt as relevant and relevant. The ambition of the Nordic prime ministers is crystal clear: the Nordic region must be the world's most integrated region. This is the starting point for the Norwegian Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers this year. The Presidency has three main features: the Nordics in transition, the Nordics in Europe and the Nordics in the world. The common denominator is that we strengthen Nordic cooperation in areas that affect our everyday lives living in the Nordic region. The Nordic region needs strong European cooperation. Our emphasis on the Nordic region in Europe is a follow-up to the fact that Finland put ‘more Nordic benefit in the EU’ on the agenda for their 2016 Presidency. We want cooperation to strengthen and inspire Europe. When I was a host to my colleagues of cooperation ministers in February, we decided to systematise the work on European policy issues through the Nordic Council of Ministers. Energy, climate and environment and digitisation are established as important areas of activity. We are based on our common interests and our common strength positions. We see that the Energy Union is evolving with inspiration from the Nordic power market. In the environmental field, we use our Presidency to promote important areas such as the circular economy with emphasis on plastics and marine pollution, as well as the green transition of the transport sector. This will also be the theme of the Nordic Ministerial Meeting in Oslo in May. In a short time, 24–25. April, we gather Nordic and Baltic ministers responsible for digitisation to the conference Digital North in Oslo. Digital integration will shape Europe and our own region in the coming years. Here, the migration agenda and the European political agenda are being met with full force. As an individual country, we are digitisation leaders. With good regional cooperation, we can further develop our competitiveness and set the tone for European cooperation in this field. I also look forward to close cooperation with the Estonian Presidency of the European Union that is coming up, which prioritises many of the same issues that we raise in our Nordic Presidency. Nordic cooperation is real policy. 20 pst. exports from the Norwegian mainland economy go to the Nordic region. Much indicates that the Nordic region will become even more important for the Norwegian economy. That's why I'm giving priority to removing border barriers. The Border Barriers Council was established in 2014 and has cleared 27 border barriers during its first three years. The Government has initiated an external evaluation of the Council’s functioning with a view to further improving the effectiveness of its work. The Government considers that it is important to comply with the EEA Agreement. That means ensuring growth and development. It means ensuring work and well-being for the future. I would like to mention three examples. Firstly, the EEA Agreement ensures a common regulatory framework for Norwegian and European enterprises in a market with 31 countries and 500 million people. Common rules exist in most areas relevant to our business activities: common environmental standards, common veterinary legislation, consumer protection, product standardisation and the recognition of State subsidies. Discrimination in such areas would constitute an effective barrier to exports to the rest of Europe. The EEA Agreement shall ensure equal treatment. When a fish farm in Båtsfjord or Vardø sends fish to buyers in Europe, access to the market is not the only important difference. For local fishing, common veterinary provisions are essential to enable us to quickly obtain fresh fish for European consumers, consumers who have the same protection either in the North Cape or at the southern tip of Spain, and with Spanish and Norwegian business operators competing under the same conditions. It gives Norwegian producers a competitive advantage over Chinese producers which can benefit from frozen raw material. My second example concerns labour immigration. The EEA Agreement allows us to be fully integrated into an internal labour market that currently includes more than 250 million workers. Since the enlargement of the EU to the east in 2004, Norway has been among the countries in Europe which have received the most migrant workers compared to the population. Norway needs these people. They help fill jobs where Norwegian jobseekers are missing, and they help blow lives in Norwegian regions and communities. At the same time, the government is concerned that the free movement of labour should not be at the expense of the sustainability of Norwegian welfare systems. The government therefore wants to assess measures limiting social security exports and will, during the current wholesale period, prepare a notification to the Stortningen on the export of welfare benefits. These are issues that are also discussed in the EU. Proposals for revision of social policy coordination were discussed at the latest at the meeting of EU labour and social ministers in March. This included countries such as Germany, Ireland, Denmark and Austria. the order for the indexation of the export of child-rescue. Crime in the labour market is a challenge that has serious consequences for workers, businesses and society at large. The government wants to make it more difficult to operate unprofessionally, without imposing new burdens on the companies that operate seriously and are committed to complying with laws and regulations. The authorities will continue and strengthen cooperation with the social organisations in vulnerable sectors in order to promote good and serious working conditions and to prevent and counteract black economy and criminal relations. The EU Black Work Platform helps to strengthen cooperation between labour supervision and other enforcement authorities. The Labour Inspectorate participates on behalf of Norway and coordinates follow-up with the police, the Skatetaten and the Nav. At the initiative of the Government, operational cooperation between the Labour Inspectorate and the Labour Inspectorate is strengthened, inter alia, by: Lithuania, Poland and Bulgaria. EEA funds for countries in Central and Eastern Europe can contribute to the implementation of several specific cooperation projects. The Storting has just adopted the Norwegian Government’s proposal for the implementation of the EU enforcement directive for the Norwegian law on the Broadcasting Directive. This will contribute to a stronger and more effective response to labour crime. As of 1 July 2017, we will have new provisions of the Working Environment Act on enhanced cooperation with other EEA countries, including: mutual assistance in the levying of financial penalties for breaches of national rules and the extension of the sanctioning powers of supervisory authorities. The rights of workers in a number of areas are strengthened as a result of rules implemented in the EEA Agreement. This applies, for example: in the field of job protection with the rules on mass dismissal, the rights of employees in the case of business transfers, the rules on written employment contracts, information and discussion rules nationally and transnationally, and parts of the working time regulations and working environment rules. In March last year, the European Commission took the initiative of a pillar of social rights to take account of social changes in Europe and changes in working life. The Nordic Labour Ministers made a joint declaration, including: stresses that the social pillar must respect the different national labour market models and that social partners and collective bargaining play an important role in the Nordic labour market. The declaration promises that the Nordic model, where the parties have a high responsibility, can contribute to flexible labour markets and high adaptability when the economy is changing. It is clarified that the Nordic countries do not support a legally binding pillar and that it should also set out visions, principles and objectives in order to improve the social rights of EU citizens. The Commission is expected to make concrete proposals on arrows on 26 April. Last year the Commission presented proposals for amendments to the Directive on the posting of workers in the context of the provision of services. The intention of the proposal is to drop a principle of equal pay for equal work at the same place. Norway, together with the other Nordic countries, has recorded its comments on this work. The Government also welcomes the Commission’s initiative to ensure a proper balance between the free movement of services, the protection of workers and fair competition between local and foreign activities. On the Norwegian side, we have also pointed out that the national space for action to define pay and remuneration should not be restricted. The government is going to follow the further process carefully and actively use its power to influence the EU. In addition, the EEA funds contribute to strengthening social rights in the recipient countries. In the tripartite cooperation of EEA funds, trade unions play an important role. My third example is the EU programme for education and research. Since the beginning of the 1990s, thousands of Nordics have participated in exchanges and cooperation projects in the field of research and education. Participation in EU innovation and research programmes increases the quality of Norwegian research and stimulates innovation. At the beginning of February, I visited Borregaard in Sarpsborg. For ten years they have been researching Exilva, a new and green product, with the support of the Research Council and Innovation Norway. The product is made of spruce special cellulose and may be used in, inter alia: adhesives, detergents and cosmetics. Now they get more than 230 million. kr from the EU Horizon 2020 programme to commercialise the product. This will ensure Norwegian participation in European research and innovation cooperation our future competitiveness. The Government wants Norwegian participation in Horizon 2020 to be fully exploited and has therefore submitted a strategy for our participation in the Programme. We need to ensure that teachers, students, researchers and businesses across the country are well aware of the opportunities for EU funding for their projects and help them to compete for the funds. This year, EU cooperation in higher education becomes 30 years old. Norway joined in 1992, and since then more than 34 000 Norwegian students and 12 000 Norwegian students have participated in mobility activities. Three years ago, Charlottenlund was able to halve the decline on the construction line in Trondheim. Now Charlottenlund is leading a cooperation project through Erasmus+ with schools in several countries that are also working specifically to reduce school dropout. With our economic integration, our high level of education, our strong research effort and our good innovation environments, we have a good starting point in Norway to maintain our high level of well-being. Europe is our most important market. About three-quarters of our foreign trade is with the EU. Around two thirds of Norwegian investment goes to the EU, while two thirds of foreign investment in Norway comes from the EU. The EEA Agreement is in many ways a major policy in practice. We are linked through day-to-day activities. We introduce the same legislation, we trade with each other, we travel out – to vacation, to study, to research or to work – and not least: people from the rest of Europe travel to us. 10 pst. of all employed persons in Norway are labour immigrants from EU/EEA countries – most from the new Member States. This benefits us, and it benefits them. Not least District Norway benefits from this labour force. It should be said that no agreement is perfect, either the EEA Agreement. It's about giving and taking. But the EEA Agreement gives us all some very important fundamental rights and opportunities. These are the rights and opportunities that we might often take for granted. The Government’s ambition is to manage the EEA Agreement in the best possible way and to contribute to understanding Norwegian views in the EU. We see the EEA as a platform to promote Norwegian interests. We should not just wait for what comes from the EU, but use the EEA to design better policy solutions for Norway at European level. In our government platform, we decided that we would pursue a more active policy to safeguard Norwegian interests vis-à-vis the EU. A State Council post for the coordination of EEA matters and relations with the EU was established. In addition, the government adopted a four-year strategy for cooperation with the EU and established the European Commission. These measures have provided Norway with better conditions for participation in the development of legislation at European level. These measures have strengthened the management of the contractual network with the EU and have made use of the opportunities to influence the EU in EEA cases in a good and more systematic, coordinated and professional way than before, for the benefit of Norwegian citizens and for the benefit of Norwegian enterprises. European policy is a national teamwork. Cooperation in Europe is about the values we believe in, and the value creation we live through. We can't play that game.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e384	The President will propose that the statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed at a later meeting. - There's no objection to that. It is therefore deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e400	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Government 10 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e413	On behalf of the President-in-Office of the Council, Trine Skei Grande, I would first like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter and also thank the chairman and members of the Committee on Afghanistan for the report they have presented. Norwegian involvement in Afghanistan has been one of our heaviest international operations ever, with significant human and financial contributions. The Committee will first and foremost recognise the efforts of the nearly 10 000 Nordics involved in operations in Afghanistan, including Norwegian military, police, aid workers and other civilians. Twelve Norwegians have lost their lives, ten of them were Norwegian soldiers in service for Norway. A lot of people are hurt. An overall committee would like to express a reverential thanks to those who gave their lives – or who have been harmed – on behalf of Afghanistan, and our deepest compassion for the relatives and their families. Out of respect for everyone who has participated, and not least for those who have lost their lives, I am pleased that the Stortinget today has a debate on the Norwegian contribution in Afghanistan. The Storting asked the government in 2014 to initiate an independent and comprehensive review of Norway's involvement in Afghanistan, based on a proposal from Trine Skei Grande, André N. Skkelstad and myself. The report of the Afghanistan Committee addresses Norway’s efforts in Afghanistan from 2001 to 2014. The report is thorough and partly very critical. For Norway, the involvement in Afghanistan was demanding. Norway was a small player in the big, international commitment. The Afghanistan Committee has assessed the results of Norway’s efforts towards the three main objectives: maintaining relations with the United States and NATO, contributing to international terrorism and contributing to state-building and development. The report sees inter alia: on the efforts of Faryab, Peace Diplomacy and the combined contribution of the Special Forces and the Intelligence Service. It points to lessons for future contributions in international operations, mainly in vulnerable countries. The report provides a good basis for evaluating the impact of the contributions made, but is even more important as a tool for future efforts, both in Afghanistan and elsewhere. It is important to stress that the involvement in Afghanistan is not completed but is still ongoing and that it is both demanding and risky. Furthermore, it is important that we take the lessons from Afghanistan into account in other international operations. Both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence made presentations on the basis of the report of the Afghanistan Committee, and it is important that the report be taken into account in the further work. The Committee agrees that the lessons learnt from Afghanistan need to be systematised and adapted to new challenges we face. An overall committee shares the concern about the situation in Afghanistan and the recognition that international contributions will be necessary for many decades to come. Afghanistan is still one of the poorest countries in the world. Conflict and corruption limit economic growth and will depend on international contributions. Combating poverty is linked to the fight against corruption. Corruption must be combated if it is to be managed with the help of those who need it. An overall committee refers to the Minister for Foreign Affairs' emphasis on the need for security and alliance policy to be a cornerstone of the Norwegian Afghanistan exposure. The Committee stresses that the application of Article 5 of the NATO Pact and the recognition by the United Nations Security Council of the right to self-defence provided the basis for Norwegian involvement. The attack in the United States on 11 September 2001 became the fixation of a large and extensive civil and military international involvement in Afghanistan, with the United States as the heaviest premiscuous supplier. Norway’s contribution was a small part. Norway therefore had to deal mainly with the framework established by others. However, there was a room for action in the design of the Norwegian civil and military contributions. However, as regards the longer-term involvement in Afghanistan, other considerations have been more prominent. The construction of a stable and democratic Afghan state has been an important part of Norwegian involvement. However, it takes time to develop a modern, stable and democratic state, and although the engagement in Afghanistan has been long lasting, democracy building is something that must take place for even longer. The Committee considers that the level of ambition here has been too high and that a more realistic objective would be to contribute to a process in Afghanistan towards increased stability and democratic development. As pointed out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his presentation, Afghanistan is a country with great challenges and with great distances between central, local and local authorities, making democracy building even more demanding. The Norwegian aid operation in Afghanistan has been significant. Over the period 2001–2014, Norway has used 8.4 billion. kr for civil purposes. The effort has been part of a broader international effort to build a democratic country, a goal that has not been achieved today. The Committee notes that the report of the Afghanistan Committee states that the aid volume was the main aid target in itself and that the overall volume of aid was much higher than the weak Afghan institutions, contributing to corruption and aid dependence. A broad majority of the Committee would stress that despite all the weaknesses identified by the Afghanistan Committee and the statements made by the Councils, there has been a positive development in Afghanistan. It's a democratic development, albeit fragile. Civil society has evolved and the number of free media has increased considerably. Women’s rights have been strengthened in some areas and girls have greater access to education than before. Health has improved and infrastructure is much more developed. Assistance has produced results in some areas, in particular in the fields of health and education. The majority of the Committee will also highlight the active Norwegian peace diplomacy in Afghanistan. Norway contacted the Taliban early in order to facilitate the establishment of a basis for negotiations in Afghanistan. Although no solution has been found in Afghanistan, Norway’s experience in this area suggests that the peace diplomacy should continue as a central Norwegian contribution to other conflicts. The Minister of Foreign Affairs pointed out in his statement that the coordination of military and civil efforts in Afghanistan has been demanding, but that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence are today better coordinated than they were in the past. The Committee agrees with the importance of coordination of military and civil contributions and underlines the need for clear guidelines for the division of roles between military and civil authorities. At the same time, the Committee considers that recognising that a country may need both safety measures and development-related action should not result in such a degree of coordination that roles are mixed. A majority of the Committee will warn against integrating military and civil efforts. The majority will emphasise the need for much better coordination mechanisms, but at the same time refer to the report of the Afghanistan Committee, which points out: ‘The Norwegian line with a clear distinction between civil and military action is, in principle, well justified in the wish to avoid the impact of aid projects on the armed conflict.’ The practical implementation of such a distinction must produce much better results. With regard to the use of local staff in international operations, the Committee supports the Minister of Defence's emphasis on the absence of the use of civilian local staff for conflicting tasks. Lasting peace and stabilisation in Afghanistan requires a political solution that also includes the Taliban. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is clear that the solution must be inclusive and not at the expense of human rights, including women's rights and girls' right to education. That is what the Committee believes is a demanding objective when we see how the Taliban, who actively undermines women's rights, strengthens itself politically and militarily. The Committee believes that it is essential that neighbouring countries in the region engage in finding a solution in Afghanistan and that it is particularly important to involve Pakistan. Norway must therefore work with the international community to ensure that Pakistan becomes a positive contributor to finding a agreed solution in Afghanistan. The evaluation of Norwegian involvement in Afghanistan came at the initiative of the Stortinget, and I perceive that there is a broad consensus on the usefulness of the evaluation that has been carried out. It is therefore natural that the Stortinget assesses whether a new practice should be established in which evaluations are always carried out after Norwegian military involvement in international operations. In the Committee there is only a minority who are calling for this. However, there is a majority who want some form of evaluation of Norwegian participation in Libya. There are differences in the form in which an evaluation should be carried out and, above all, whether it should be external. But I hope we can have a majority today to start an evaluation of the Norwegian participation in Libya in 2011. Finally, an important clarification: in the event of an error, the Left has remained within a comment in the vote concluding that the war in Afghanistan was an error. I'm going to have to correct that. The left considers that the Norwegian contribution has not adequately contributed to development or democratisation in Afghanistan, but will not characterise the Norwegian effort in Afghanistan as an error.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e471	The President expects the representative to make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e476	Of course, I am addressing the proposals where the Left is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e481	The representative Ola Elvestuen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e486	It is in its place to start by thanking the ten Norwegian soldiers who lost their lives in Afghanistan, from the pulpit to the thousands of Norwegian women and men who have served in Afghanistan. The Godal Committee also concludes that Norwegian military and civil personnel have made good efforts in Afghanistan under difficult conditions. Nor should we forget that Norwegian military forces are still serving in Afghanistan through a NATO operation and that we still have a broad civil development exposure in that country. The purpose of the evaluation of the Afghanistan exposure by the Godal Committee has been both to draw the necessary lessons and to contribute to a more open and informed discussion on Norwegian foreign and security policy. One of the key recommendations of the Godal Committee is precisely a more open debate on the key foreign and defence policy decisions and their associated dilemmas. The committee believes that a broader debate on such involvement will be a strength for the Norwegian People's Government and for Norway as an ally. Extent and format may vary, but it is natural to undergo major foreign operations. We have to bear to be seen in the cards. From the Labour Party, we are now responding to a proposal from the government on how, in an appropriate form, we can also review the experience of the Libya operation in 2011. The Godal Committee set out three main objectives for its evaluation of Norway’s involvement in Afghanistan: fight with the United States and NATO fight against international terrorism for a better Afghanistan There are obviously large differences in the level of difficulty between these three highest objectives. First, the alliance dimension: the objective of supporting the United States and contributing to ensuring the relevance of NATO has, in the opinion of the sample, been achieved to a large extent. However, the objective of contributing to the prevention of Afghanistan from becoming a place of international terrorism is only partly achieved. Although Afghanistan is no longer a state protecting international terrorists today, we know that the Taliban has a national agenda in which Afghan groups associated with Al Qaida and ISIL have international objectives. The third main objective, to help build a stable and democratic Afghan state through civil efforts and diplomacy of peace, is not achieved. In the modern history of Norwegian foreign and security policy, our military and civil involvement in Afghanistan stands in a special position. During the period 2001–2014, the Norwegian authorities spent about 20 billion. kr in Afghanistan – SEK 11,5 billion. kr for military purposes and SEK 8.4 billion. kr for civil action. Of course, the amounts are significant, but do not exceed 0,26 pst. of the total international military effort and 2,3 pst. of the total civil effort. Thus, the ratios call for soberness in the assessment of the impact of Norwegian intervention on overall developments in Afghanistan. One area where we can potentially make a difference is in peace diplomacy. In Afghanistan, Norway was among the first countries to establish contact with the Taliban – to communicate and facilitate negotiations on a peaceful solution to the conflict. This work started in 2007, long before the Americans were willing to start such a dialogue. In spite of the fact that the attempts at a negotiated peace settlement have not yet been successful, the assessment of the Godal Committee is that Norway’s experience in this field suggests that peace diplomacy should continue as a central possible Norwegian contribution to other conflicts. Norwegian efforts for peace and reconciliation require that our responsible authorities are able to take their own risks and to show initiative and boldness. The review of the Afghanistan exposure has provided important lessons both for future military foreign operations and for the alerting of the escalation of civil development exposure in vulnerable countries. Here we have a lot to learn from what we've done in Afghanistan. A lesson that still prevails in political disagreement is about the practice of the distinction between military and civil action. The Minister of Defence stated that Norwegian civil and military efforts in Afghanistan should be more coordinated and integrated. One side of the issue is whether the Minister of Defence is right when she takes the report of the Godal Committee as revenue for her view. More importantly, we distinguish between coordination and integration of civil and military efforts. The need for coordination of military and civil efforts could be joined by a large majority in this Chamber. This concerns both the need for operational coordination mechanisms and clearer guidelines for the division of roles between military and civil authorities. However, the Minister of Defence does not have the majority of the Storting – and this is clear from the position – with regard to the inclusion of military and civil efforts. The Godal Committee itself indicates that studies of integrated stabilisation efforts in five provinces in Afghanistan during the period 2008-2010 found that such integrated efforts did not have the expected effect. And, as the Godal Committee also points out, the Norwegian line with a clear distinction between civil and military action is basically well-founded in the desire to avoid aid projects being hit by armed conflict. Another important lesson is all that is said to contribute to the development of vulnerable countries. An important criticism in the report of the Godal Committee is that much of the civil effort, not only from Norway, but also from other countries, has contributed to weakening the Afghan state relatively because very much of the development aid has gone to relief organisations. In vulnerable states, we must be able to contribute to the construction of a state, and then an indirect effect of aid can contribute to the weakening of the state. There is also a need to have good Norwegian people on the ground following Norwegian development aid — and it is also called for by the Godal Committee. In this case, a number of proposals have also been made for reforming how the Storting should address issues of Norwegian military foreign missions. On behalf of the Labour Party, we would like to welcome a debate on these issues. The starting point for the matter we are discussing here today in the Chamber is the statements by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence on our Afghanistan exposure. It's important, and it also raises questions. I believe that we have largely taken this discussion into account when we have also contributed to military engagement in the fight against ISIL today. I believe that much of the experience from Afghanistan has already been taken up in the discussion by focusing more on dilemmas and how difficult it is to have goals that it is possible to achieve in our military involvement in the fight against ISIL. To contribute to getting more of these discussions up in the main hall, I believe is a very clear recommendation from the Afghanistan Committee that we will also contribute to. But the issue of the formal role of the Storting in military foreign operations concerns larger, wider and more fundamental issues. It's about the foundation of our constitutional order, the prerogative of the government in foreign policy. Other related countries have chosen other solutions in these issues. I think that might be interesting to study more closely. On the part of the Labour Party, we would also like to welcome that debate, but today it is not possible for us to decide on the fundamental reforms of the division of labour between big business and government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e528	Let me first thank you for the great effort that many Norwegian military, police, relief workers and other civilians have made in Afghanistan for many, many years – those who have sacrificed their lives in this effort, and those who are injured or affected in other ways. We thank them and their families for the great sacrifices they have made for our security and for a better Afghanistan. It is important to have a wide-ranging debate on the experience of the Norwegian civilian and military efforts in Afghanistan, based on the report of the Afghanistan Committee and the statements by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence. The exposure in Afghanistan has now been close to 16 years. It's been one of our largest and heaviest international operations ever. Norway has contributed large resources both through military efforts and through assistance. The exposure is still very demanding. The objectives of engagement in Afghanistan have been a fight against international terrorism and for a better Afghanistan. I think it is important to remember the situation when Norway first made the decision to send soldiers to Afghanistan. Following the terrorist attack on the United States on 11 September 2001, Article 5 of NATO was invoked for the first time and, to date, for the first time ever. It is the article that is referred to as the musketeer article: one for all — all for one. Attack on one Member State is to be regarded as an attack on all. Members had an obligation to assist when a Member State invoked Article 5. When the majority of the Stortinget supported this decision, it was with the intention of ensuring that Afghanistan would not be a haven for terrorism. During the NATO Summit, Norway promised military support for Resolute Support in 2017 and continued financial support to the security forces by 2020. The Afghanistan Committee states that Norway has been, and remains, a good ally. In this context, it is to support the United States and to ensure the relevance of NATO. That NATO is strong and relevant is important for a small country such as Norway. Ever since we entered NATO in 1949, we have built our security with others. We can't expect our allies to stand up for us, if we don't do the same when it's required. For Norway, the involvement in Afghanistan was demanding with a high risk of secondment personnel and extensive use of resources, both civil and military. Norwegian civil and military personnel have made good efforts under difficult conditions, making the report firm. I would like to highlight, as the report, the Norwegian Special Forces and Intelligence Services as two success stories. They contributed greatly to meeting Norway’s commitment objectives, namely to secure Norway’s security policy relations with the United States and NATO, to contribute to the fight against terrorism and to contributing to state-building in Afghanistan. Our long-standing military engagement has contributed to increased trust, improved ability to interact and a closer relationship with our allies, which it takes time to build up. The defence has also gained valuable operational experience, which they could not have gained through practice and training at home. These experiences must be defended, as the sample also recommends. We must not underestimate the importance of a close relationship with our allies. We can take that with us and build on it in other international missions, which are now in the fight against ISIL. I want to mention some numbers, because they're deterrent. Since 2009, 24,841 civilians have been killed and 45,347 wounded in the war in Afghanistan, according to the UN. NATO has so far lost 3529 soldiers. Norway has lost ten plus two civilians. The safety situation in Afghanistan remains worrying. In Afghanistan, the co-operation government is still struggling, but it may remain, because it is considered the best option. The Taliban poses a direct threat to several provincial capitals. A peace process is necessary. None of the parties can win militarily. One of Norway’s objectives has been to help build a stable and democratic Afghan state — a goal that has only been achieved in part, according to the report. Despite armed conflict, Afghanistan today has a young, albeit fragile, democracy. The first peaceful democratic presidential change has taken place. Norway has contributed to the development of Afghan civil society and free media. This is also highlighted by the report of the Afghanistan Committee. Women's rights have been strengthened. Girls now have far greater access to education than before. The Afghan authorities, with the assistance of, among others: Norway contributed to a significant increase in the number of children in Afghanistan attending school. In 2001, about 1 million children, mostly boys, went to school. In 2015, 8.2 million children went to school, and 40 pst. Of these were girls. Norway has contributed about 6 pst. of the major reconstruction fund for Afghanistan. The government continues to increase its efforts in the field of education, to about 70 million. kr in 2017. The humanitarian situation has worsened as a result of the struggles and because of the hundreds of thousands of Afghan refugees who have returned from Pakistan and Iran since the summer. The EU and Afghanistan organised a donor country conference in October 2016, leading to promises of 15.2 billion. USD in civil assistance in the years 2017 to 2020. The level was higher than expected and almost the same as the current four-year period. The donor countries and Afghanistan agree that stability requires considerable assistance for many years to come. Public authorities are being pressured to deliver on the reform commitments from Brussels, which can also improve the country’s ability to maintain its own development in the long term. The reform plans of the authorities are ambitious, but their scope of action is limited by conflict, low economic growth, corruption and political stabbing. Other speakers from the Right will go into this last topic. It appears from the Committee’s recommendation that the Government Parties support a proposal to ask the Government to initiate an evaluation of the Norwegian participation in the Libyan operation in 2011. In this context, it is important for me to stress that we do that because this is the wish of a party that has government responsibility at the time. We believe, however, in principle, that no practice should be established in which new governments carry out the evaluation of their predecessors without the initiative of the government parties, which took the decision in question. So the latter is the case here, and that is why we support this proposal in the vote. Of course, this should not be confused with the role of the Storting as a control body. There has also been a proposal today by the Greens on the treatment of prisoners of war. This is, of course, an area linked to recognised international agreements, conventions and conventions on which Norway is bound. In addition, there will be specific rules in each operation. With regard to the issue of national regulation, which this proposal addresses, this is a matter that the government wants and wants to look at. We have therefore come to the conclusion that the Right will support this proposal, but it is important for me to make it clear that Norway has not interned any safety reasons in Afghanistan – only been involved in the arrest of Afghan people with a view to handing over to the Afghan authorities. I clarify this, so that there is no doubt about how Norway and Norwegian forces have behaved in this matter. In conclusion, the evaluation report and the statements by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence give a good impression of Norway’s efforts and the entire major international operation. And there's also a lot to learn from both good and bad. But that report does not give us an answer: what would the situation in Afghanistan be without the involvement of the international community? We never get an answer to that, but we have to ask ourselves that question as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e574	Let me first, on behalf of the Advancement Party, express a reverential thanks to the ten Norwegian soldiers and the two civilians who have given their lives on mission in Afghanistan. I also want to express my deepest compassion to the relatives and their families. The committee that has evaluated and drawn lessons from Norway’s civil and military efforts in Afghanistan has done a very good job. The committee has done an open, honest and thorough analysis. The committee leader, Bjørn Tore Godal, should have all the honor for the job done. In rare cases, a government-appointed sample has been so clear that such a comprehensive international mission has been partially unsuccessful. The selection even says in the first sentence: ‘After many years of international efforts, the situation in Afghanistan is discouraging.’ In particular, it is not possible to express it more clearly. The exposure objective is not reached. The reasons for this are many, according to the sample, but there is particular emphasis on resistance to reform from conservative religious and nationalistic forces. However, there is a light point. The Committee points out that Norway has achieved one of its objectives, namely to support the United States and make NATO relevant, as underlined by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his statement. It is easy to forget that the reason for the presence of NATO countries in Afghanistan is the attack on the United States on 11 September 2001 and the release of Article 5 of NATO, which states that an attack on one of the Member States is an attack on all. This objective strengthens NATO. But it doesn't say anything about NATO's ability to fight the enemy. The two other objectives of Norway cannot be said to have been achieved. Of course, it can be claimed that Afghanistan is no longer a terrorist scene, but it does little to help when neighbouring countries in the region have more than likely taken over the role. The third objective of Norway was to build a stable and democratic state through long-term assistance and peace diplomacy. It's not achieved. The sample even concludes that Norway has not made a significant difference. The number of deaths is more than 90,000, including 3,496 international soldiers. The price of the international exposure has been close to 5000 billion. kr, or about four Norwegian State budgets. Norway has used almost 20 billion for its own purposes. kr, of which 11.5 bn. kr on military efforts. That Islamist Taliban often, in cooperation with al-Qaeda, recovers more and more areas of the country is also a feature of development. This is dramatic. The international military and civil efforts in Afghanistan cannot be seen in isolation from the coalition of volunteer countries’ efforts to combat terrorism, tyranny and religious fundamentalism also in several countries in the Middle East. The exposure and presence in Afghanistan opened up to more extensive efforts, and it is not possible to see it isolated from the fight against terrorist organisations in Iraq, Libya, Yemen and Syria. Fighting on the Afghanistan/Pakistan border also serves this purpose. The few in the West will doubt that our country's military and civil engagement has the goal of creating a better future for the people of the region. For many, however, the Western presence is not seen as a mission to create reconciliation, understanding and peace. In countries where ethnic and religious tribal thinking is the very essence of culture, democracy in the western sense is completely alien. It is also often difficult to know where and to whom the loyalty of the partners lies. In our eagerness to make their daily lives as equal to ours, we must not forget that many people in the region perceive the military involvement of the West as a religious war – a crusade against Islam. If you do, this is used as an argument to find support in different groups. Many people who have traveled from these countries and have had the opportunity to live in Western countries also think the same way. A generation has soon passed since the military involvement in Afghanistan was launched. This means that most of the soldiers present in the international forces have no direct association with the terrorist attack on the Twin Towers in New York in 2001. The war in Afghanistan is becoming one of the longest in history. So the conclusion is obvious: we can't go on as we suggest. We have to think differently, and we have to act differently. We have to figure out a way out. The Afghanistan Committee draws clear conclusions that Norway should not engage in State-building, development and security on a wider scale. As the members of the Progress Party also point out in their comments, it may indicate that Norway has taken on the tasks we can find difficult to manage. One of the mandates of the panel was to point to lessons learned and experience Norway should withdraw from its Afghanistan effort and how they can be transferred to military exposures in other countries. The selection is clear again. Norway may always choose not to participate in military operations. Afghanistan was an exception due to the release of Article 5 of NATO. If we choose to participate, the goal must be clearly communicated to Stortinget and anchored with most people. However, the most important thing is that an exit strategy is defined in advance. A clear objective must then be established and the operation of the targets must be avoided. I want to add that the assumption to achieve the goal can change significantly. Then it's not a defeat to stand out. The impact of participation must also be analysed in detail. For example, today is one of the most paradoxical consequences of our military engagements that while we send our young well-trained men and women to war in other countries, many of these countries' own young men and women travel to our country to seek protection from war. It's a paradox of dimensions. These countries' own young people should have a self-interest in creating peace and living conditions in their own countries. For them, it should even be a duty. The NATO countries entered Afghanistan with the aim of putting those behind the New York terrorist attack in 2001 to responsibility. That goal has been achieved by the organisation. Bin Laden and his direct co-managers are too far killed or taken prisoner. At the same time, we know that the security situation in Afghanistan has deteriorated over the following years. With such a hindrance it must be natural to ask the following four questions. Firstly, what is the mandate for military engagement in Afghanistan today? Combating terrorism is a floating goal, and it can never be achieved. There will always be terror, no matter how many international and Norwegian soldiers are trying to fight it. Secondly, if this is unclear, should the international military presence cease? It is also a debate that must be taken but not taken. It is not taken in Norway. It is not taken in NATO either. It's just not taken. It is not part of the discussion that takes place. We should actually dry it out. That's what the Godal committee is doing, and it's going to be honored for that. Thirdly, should NATO focus on its primary tasks — the defence of our own countries after we have managed to kill those who allegedly were behind the terror against the United States in 2001? Fourth, should Norway terminate its military engagement in Afghanistan? This debate is likely to come as nothing more than a new debate that may come in one, two, three or four years. We have to draw some conclusions. We have to make some decisions. In fact, that is why this room has the job of discussing Norway’s efforts and Norway’s tasks internationally. So that's up to us. Like Mr Højres Øyvind Halleraker, the Progress Party supports the Greens' proposal on how to deal with prisoners of war. Like the Right, the Progress Party supports proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e619	Like previous speakers, I would like to highlight the personal efforts of individuals and organisations in very demanding and complex situations. A special thought goes to those who lost their lives and their closest ones. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would also like to express a great deal of thanks to the solar data and departments that have contributed militarily, the diplomats who have contributed to the political process and the many aid workers and organisations who have made a formidable effort in humanitarian aid and long-term development. The terrorist attack that ensues the United States on 11 September 2001 introduces a new era. Since then, international society has had to adapt to a new threat of international security — extreme Islamist terror. Tracked by the terrorists behind 9 September lead to the al-Qaida network. It had training bases and leadership figures in mountains in Afghanistan. Osama bin Laden and al-Qaeda welcomed guests to the Taliban regime. The international military operation in Afghanistan would put an end to it. The military offensive with the North Alliance's ground forces and international air support led to a rapid fall of the Taliban regime. It was far more demanding to build a stable alternative regime to ensure that Afghanistan was not a free port of international terrorism. It has been over 15 years since 9 September. It has been a time of testing and failure, learning and experience – not only in Afghanistan but also in other areas of conflict with extreme Islamist terror. This international security threat has not been reduced. The Norwegian contributions in Afghanistan were only a small part of a large international effort. It is difficult to unravel the Norwegian part and evaluate the effect of him in isolation, but it is clear that the painting that was set has been achieved to a very different extent. The first goal was to act as a good ally of the United States and NATO members, following the Afghanistan Declaration. Allian political considerations dominated Norway's decision to contribute militarily. Norway has the power to appear to be a good ally. The second objective was to contribute to international counter-terrorism by preventing Afghanistan from becoming a decade of international terrorism. That target is only partially reached. The third objective was to build a stable and democratic Afghan state through aid and peace diplomacy. This target is not reached. The goal was also too ambitious. Changing Afghan society and building a resilient state, like a generation project, is not a quick-fix in a war situation. In addition, problems were created because aid to many donor countries was linked to the military struggle and used as a means of obtaining support from the local population. This combination deludes the distinction between warfare and humanitarian development exposure. While the Minister of Defence is critical of the clear distinction Norway made between civil and military action, the Committee’s plurality points to the Afghanistan Committee: ‘The Norwegian line with a clear distinction between civil and military action is, in principle, well justified in the wish to avoid the impact of aid projects on the armed conflict.’ The Minister of Foreign Affairs clearly states that a political solution is required with the Taliban, but at the same time the solution must be inclusive and not be followed by human rights. This is imperative when the Taliban actively opposes women’s rights in general and girls’ rights to education in particular. Ensuring a positive involvement of central neighbouring countries also requires stabilisation of the country, but Pakistan and other neighbouring countries have other interests that make this very goal difficult. The Godal Committee believes that the involvement of Storting in important decisions on international military operations should be improved. The government should provide more systematic information on the size of targets, means, expected results and on-going experience. The Christian People's Party agrees. We are therefore involved in several appeal decisions and several minority proposals. I take up proposal No. 3, where we are co-sponsors. The Christian People's Party will also support the proposal of the Green Party on the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e652	Then the representative Knut Arild Hareide addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e658	I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence for their statements on Afghanistan. I would also like to thank the Afghanistan Committee, the leader of the Bjørn Tore Godal, for their thorough reports on the Norwegian lessons from the war in Afghanistan. On behalf of the Center Party, I would like to extend a great deal of thanks to those who have paid the greatest price by giving their lives in battles, and to their families, who quite clearly have their ribs come back. Many have deep injuries, both physical and mental, and there is a tremendous effort from Norway. It is important in this case that even if you can be critical of the results, there is a lot of work done by the people who have been sent out by the country. The Minister of Foreign Affairs correctly indicated that Norway had a formal obligation in relation to the NATO Pact to support the United States following the cruel terrorist attacks against the United States on 11 September 2001. The Committee notes that Article 5 of the NATO Pact and the recognition by the United Nations Security Council of the right to self-defence provided the basis for Norwegian involvement. The centre party supports this. The Afghanistan Committee writes that, like other countries’ support for Afghanistan, it was also a key objective of the Norwegian contribution to the construction of a democratic and long-term economically independent Afghan state. The selection concludes that the results have been disappointing, especially in the light of the considerable and large resources put into the project. This is a particularly important lesson to take along. We've seen it in Afghanistan, we've seen it in Iraq, and we've seen it in Libya. Building stable democracy is particularly difficult. One of the most important conclusions of the selection is that attempts to achieve a negotiated solution to the conflict must start early. It means, in practice, that one must have a plan for a political solution before sending a soldier to a country. Do we do this in our operations today? For example, I've asked several times who the government sees as legitimate government in Syria. I have not received a clear answer. I understand that, because, like several conflicts, the political landscape is unclear and it is not easy to see sketches of good political solutions. We must just as fully acknowledge that a non-clear plan for a politically viable solution in Syria does not exist when one does not know who sees it as a legitimate power of government in the country. It is this recognition of factors that make the Center Party particularly skeptical to Norwegian military participation in Syria. Another clear conclusion from the Afghanistan selection is that when assessing Norwegian military participation in a conflict area, an exit strategy must be established. I would like to point out here that the Minister of Defence, during his statement for the Stortinget, agreed with the selection that all operations should have an exit strategy in an optimal way. I want to be clear – as the Centre Party notes – that an exit strategy should be in place before sending Norwegian military forces abroad, and that this is not only optimal, but should also be strongly focused before taking such a heavy decision. Sending Norwegian soldiers into war is one of the most important and difficult decisions one can take, and these decisions have particularly far-reaching consequences, often more than our elected powers to foresee. For example, in 2001, no one could predict how long the conflict in Afghanistan would last or what the consequences would be. The truth is that nobody sees it quite clearly today either. The Afghanistan Committee wrote among others: that the current system of closed orientations for the enlarged Foreign and Defence Committee and wide distributions for the Storting should be improved. In the event of international involvement in conflict areas, the government should provide more systematic information to the Storting on objectives, means, expected results and on-going experience. A systematic approach will also provide a better basis for an informed debate. So far about the selection. The central party believes that the Stortinget must be involved in a far heavier and broader way before any decision on Norwegian military contributions abroad is taken. Today's system of consultation in the enlarged Foreign and Defence Committee in Stortinget does not ensure sufficient democratic anchoring. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have taken the initiative of a proposal that says that the Stortinget is asking the government to anchor through debate in the Stortinget if the government wants to send Norwegian soldiers into armed conflict beyond NATO's borders. Together with the Christian People's Party, SV and Left, we also propose that a permanent practice of external evaluation be incorporated after Norway has made significant contributions to international military operations, and we ask that an external evaluation of Norwegian participation in the Libyan operation be carried out in 2011. The proposals that the Center Party is making, are they already taken up by others?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e683	They are.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e688	I would also like to thank the case-speaker and colleagues, and the state councils that presented the distribution. Even more than all of us, I would like to thank the Afghanistan Committee, which, in my view, provided one of the best and most thorough independent reports on Norwegian foreign and security policy that I have read. But most grateful to the many who have served in our military forces, the police, the civilians who have shared, and not least those who have lost their lives, and their families and all around them, who have suffered the very heaviest loss of Norway in the lengthy effort we have made in Afghanistan. I think it is important to stress to them that, although in the report, and here in the debate, from many criticisms and various critical points of view on the situation in Afghanistan and on what has been achieved, I still believe that there is a concerted increase that is grateful for and sees the value of the efforts that the many have made, and that they have contributed to making a difference in different ways. My and SV's views on history come out well – like their other party – in the setting, so I want to focus my article on some consequences of it, which I draw for the future. The first is soberness and caution when we decide to engage in war or military operations. In my view, the selection is its report and everything we have experienced in Afghanistan, a demonstration of how difficult it is to influence social development, even to fight terrorism, in countries far away where we have limited resources to achieve what we want, where we often have limited competences, where the costs we take on can be very large, and where the situation and the premise are shifting along the way, and where, for Norway, we have a very limited impact on strategy and objectives, both civil and military. That's why I think it's impossible to travel, to look far enough into the future to make good judgements. And I think the most important consequence of that is that we shouldn't say never, but that we should be very careful before we say yes to that kind of commitment, and that we – as SV has mentioned in comments – should have a set of terms, or a doctrine, let's call it a set of demands for ourselves, before we go into and say yes to participate in an operation. The second relates to Norwegian contributions. One might say a lot about military and civil contributions, but I would also like to point out that I believe that the report of the election shows how much we have left for the Norwegian Peace Diplomacy, although in this case it did not produce good results in the end. We have special skills, we have a greater ability to enter complex roles, we have a greater willingness to do things that others don't do, than many other countries. And it's a small contribution with potential large and positive outcomes, which we've now seen in another conflict, in Colombia. The third concerns openness and debate. I think that too much in the political environment we are still stuck to the idea that consensus itself is important in foreign policy. To a greater extent, we see a wide and wide-ranging debate in civil society in research outside the party-political environment, while we are too attached to being a few. It was thought-provoking to experience that the district leader Godal pointed out during the hearing that there was a bigger and wider debate about strategy both in Washington and in London than in Oslo. But where it is thought to be too equal, it is often thought to be too small. For this reason, there should be an open distribution – as was the case with Afghanistan participation in 2001, because the SV and the Progress Party that could bring it about in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee and lift it up in the Chamber. This led to the fact that we now have the whole story and the debate after public. We should also, in my view, make as Danish, they simply have a decision in their peoples like the one that is interpolitically isolated around. I respect those who say that we don't just want to adopt it over the table now, but I still think that all parties should think about whether or not the time is right for reforms. Point four: I think we can sum up that the Norwegian model of civil-military cooperation – and separation – works in a rough way. Point five is that I think we can say that the process we have had with Afghanistan has been an example of follow-up, that there is much to be gained from ex post evaluations, not least in respect of those who have suffered the heavy loss. My experience is that perhaps the most important thing they ask from their leaders is to be honest about what has happened, the willingness to go into and see how it is there. Some of that is also to evaluate it in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e713	Wishes Solhjell to record proposal No. Four?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e718	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e723	Then the representative, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e728	I join in the gratitude that has come from all the representatives of those who have made a great effort and made great sacrifices, both soldiers and auxiliary workers, in Afghanistan. And then I thank the Council of State for good presentations and the Committee on Good Work, and not least the Afghanistan Committee for a very good and thorough report. I also agree with the good arguments of the representative, Mr Solhjell, especially for more transparency and diversity in the Norwegian foreign policy debate. It is also the basis for the Green Party to support both the majority proposals, I and II, and the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, Left and SV in different constellations. In my speech, I would like to focus on the proposal put forward by the Greens on a legal investigation into the rights of prisoners held by Norwegian soldiers. According to the Afghanistan Committee, the Norwegian strength contribution in Afghanistan had very little or no capacity to hold prisoners in its own installations. Therefore, Norwegian forces were dependent on being able to transfer prisoners to other actors. If there is another situation in which Norwegian forces operate under similar conditions, there is little preliminary evidence that the situation will be different. During Operation Enduring Freedom, the Americans were the only ones we could transfer the prisoners to, and under ISAF, the solution was to transfer to local authorities at the National Directorate for Security, NDS. However, transfers to NDS were stopped in 2011 after the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan, UNAMA, published a report on the treatment of prisoners in Afghanistan. This stop led to considerable uncertainty as to how the treatment of prisoners was to be managed, and the transfers were later resumed, despite the new UNAMA reports suggesting that the situation had improved. The international law allows for the internalisation of persons taken prisoner by Norwegian soldiers in a non-international armed conflict. However, such detention shall only take place where this is strictly necessary for safety reasons. The prisoners shall be treated humanely and shall be entitled to have the grounds for detention tested. International law requires countries to regulate more closely the basis of detention made in armed conflict, and in Norway, the Constitution requires that the detention of persons is governed by law. Although it is possible for Norway to transfer responsibility for the follow-up to other countries, Norway has a clear responsibility to ensure that these prisoners are treated under international law. If such prisoner transfers are not possible, Norway has a responsibility to treat persons detained by Norwegian soldiers in armed conflict itself under international law. In connection with the consultation of this report, Norway’s Red Cross stated that it was not possible for Norway to respect the rights of the persons taken by Norwegian forces in Afghanistan, and the sample report shows that there was uncertainty as to whether the prisoners transferred to other authorities were treated under international law. This is worrying. We are now seeing reports in the Evening Post of Nineveh in Iraq, where Iraqi authorities have cohabited 100 boys and men suspected of belonging to IS, on 30 square meters of cells. We see a lot of these pictures around the world. The point is simple: people suspected of taking part in combat actions on behalf of terrorist organisations are also entitled to basic decent treatment under human rights, and Norway must take that responsibility. Norway's participation in international operations imposes on us a legal and moral responsibility for how we treat people in our care. The Greens therefore propose – as Norway’s Red Cross played to the Foreign Affairs Committee in the past – that: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish its own legal system to ensure that prisoners held by Norwegian forces in connection with the armed conflict are protected and how the rights of persons held by Norwegian soldiers can be respected in our international operations.’ After what I have heard today, this proposal is adopted, perhaps even unanimously, and it is nice to note. I then deal with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e750	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e755	First, I want to express a reverential thanks to those who gave their lives on mission in Afghanistan. I want to express my deepest condolences to the relatives and to the families. The situation in Afghanistan is no less worrying today than when the Minister of Defence and I gave our presentations in January. During my visit to Kabul in February, I had good conversations with President Ghana, members of the government and other partners. The conversations confirm the assessments that I made in the presentation. The security situation has become more demanding. On 8 March, the military hospital in Kabul was attacked – the most serious attack in the country for several years. At the same time, Taliban challenges Afghan security forces in even more districts than before. Some countries in the region also contribute to increased uncertainty through support and encouragement to Afghan rebel groups. During my visit to Kabul, I was also reminded of the progress made, and the representative Halleraker was actually involved in this question of alternatives. When a close ally such as the United States claims Article 5 of NATO – 3,000 people were killed in a terrible terrorist attack in New York – it is clear that in 2001 we set up, as we would have expected, that others had set ourselves up for us in a similar situation. There is no doubt that Afghan authorities are better equipped to deliver security and services today than they were before. The Afghan economy, as I saw in self-esteem, is progressing and at the end of 2015 was almost eight times larger than it was in 2001 – eight times larger. From 2001 to 2014, the average life expectancy had increased by about half. five years, and health services for women and children combined with better nutrition have contributed to the decline in infant mortality. In 2001, fewer than a million children went to school, and almost no girls. Today, nine million children go to school, and beyond 40 pst. Of these are girls. This means that many of these children actually have a future, because they get education, which they did not get — at least not girls — under the Taliban regime. The Committee's recommendation draws attention to the need for a negotiated solution to the conflict with the Taliban. A policy solution depends on the involvement of neighbouring countries. Norway continues to encourage regional support for an Afghan peace process in our contact with Pakistan and other countries and through our contribution to regional dialogue. A political process must be inclusive and solutions must ensure a constitutional system of human rights, including for women. Norway encourages the parties to enter into real negotiations, and we are ready to assist them. Development takes time under the best circumstances. Development of Afghanistan is no exception. There is a high risk of relapse due to armed conflict, terrorism and widespread corruption. The Committee confirms that Afghanistan will need international support for many decades to come. It is still one of the poorest countries in the world. But we must not forget that before 2001, the country had been hit by decades of civil war, so even before the conflict with the Taliban started, it was a country that lacked most of the infrastructure. I note the support of the Stortinget to continue the priorities of the Norwegian development aid to Afghanistan. Both President Ghana and independent actors have given strong recognition to the Norwegian scheme of assistance because it is based on Afghan needs and because it supports national plans. The Storting wants to carry out an evaluation in an appropriate form of the Norwegian military and civil participation in the Libyan operation in 2011. The government will facilitate such work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e776	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e782	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a very good contribution. To a large extent, we share the main points of view of this matter, and it is important that we also get the dilemmas associated with military engagement on the table. Some of the evaluation reports address the need to have Norwegian staff present following Norwegian aid funds. My question is why the Minister for Foreign Affairs is reducing the number of people present in Afghanistan now following Norwegian aid money. Would it not have been wise to follow the recommendation of the evaluation report, namely that we have people who are following the money, who know what they are going to, who are following anti-corruption work, and who are taking part, not least, in the international discussion on how to organise aid to Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e789	Thank you for a good and important question. This also does not contain insignificant dilemmas. A technical recommendation came to me because of the safety situation in Kabul that they wanted to deal with some of the Norwegian aid follow-up from home instead of through personnel in Kabul. This was probably reasonable, but I would add that Norway is still set up with a not insignificant diplomatic presence in Kabul. But the safety of our personnel must always come first, and there I must listen to the professional recommendations that come. It is also the case that the Norwegian aid scheme is an ongoing assessment of how much is going to go to multilateral channels, how much is going to go to the locality and how much is going to be direct bilateral support.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e794	I thank you for the answer, but I would also like to ask about this more generally, because we are now going to focus more of Norwegian aid on vulnerable countries. One question has been staff in South Sudan and how we contribute to helping in countries like Mali. Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs contribute to the Norwegian presence of more people to follow Norwegian aid crowns, so that we know that the money is coming out? It's even more demanding in vulnerable countries than what we've been used to so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e799	As I said, we also depend on which channels we use. The use of multilateral channels, the UN, the International Red Cross, the World Bank, etc., is not the need for ground presence as much as if there are bilateral projects that we are following up. But I can assure the representative Huitfeldt that, for example, In Mali, when we now establish an embassy in Bamako, it also means that we want to increase our presence with personnel, and we are still well positioned both in South Sudan and Kabul. But there is no doubt that the security situation in Kabul has been very different, and I also need to listen to professional advice on the safety of personnel, and how we should optimally set up. But I believe that we need to have a presence – of course – in Kabul to follow up the aid projects we have, as in the other countries that I explain.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e804	There is a big difference in the situation understanding of today's Afghanistan when one hears the Foreign Minister's speeches and previous speeches today from the Government Parties The Progress Party and the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde. There might be reason to ask yourself if a discussion of such issues between the government party, but my question is: Can the government council stand behind the situation understanding from the government parties Progress Party, as it was expressed today from the pulpit, from Christian Tybring-Gjedde?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e809	What I said in my speech is that the security situation has become more demanding since my statement and the Minister of Defence's statement. On 8 March, the military hospital in Kabul was also attacked, and it is the most serious attack in several years, so there is no doubt that the security situation is demanding and that the Taliban has been controlled in a few more provinces than before. This is also a major challenge for the 350,000 of Afghanistan’s security personnel and soldiers trying to do their best in the fight against the Taliban. It confirms that a military presence is still important, not least for the training of these personnel. But at the same time, the average life expectancy has increased, nine million children go to school -- there were almost no girls before -- and there's been an eightfold increase in the economy, so it's a very complex picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e814	I want to challenge the Minister of Defense a little later on on the distinction that one should have between civil and military action. But when we look at the organisation of aid in Afghanistan, where we have spent hundreds of millions of dollars every year, and when we see the systems around the distribution of aid, there are very few people who have actually been responsible for payments of 700-800 million. kr. In retrospect: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see that one should have had a better quality of the system when it concerns the distribution of Norwegian aid in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e819	There is no doubt that it is demanding to operate in Afghanistan — it is one of the poorest countries in the world, it is a country living with armed conflict, and it is a country in which extensive corruption is taking place. But it is also true that the human suffering is great, so you meet all the requirements for receiving both Norwegian humanitarian aid and assistance in general. Then I want to go back a little bit to the answer I gave to the representative Huitfeldt, that it is the device of Norwegian assistance that must be essential for how much personnel we need in Afghanistan. If it goes multilaterally, if it goes through the International Red Cross Committee, if it goes through the International Red Cross Federation, if it goes through the UN, the World Bank, etc., it does not require equal presence. However, we also have important programmes — in gender equality, education, rural development — that require ongoing follow-up. I believe that we are adequately configured.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e826	I also want to go back a little bit to the fundamental distinction between civil and military action. Now the Afghanistan Committee gives good reasons for having a distinction as clearly as Norway has, but especially in the Faryab province, it did not work very well in practice. In his statement, the Minister of Foreign Affairs stressed that the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has now gained useful experience and is much better coordinated today than when we first entered Afghanistan. Then my question about the Minister for Foreign Affairs can elaborate more on this coordination: can we now be sure that the Norwegian civil and military efforts will be better coordinated, and that we will get better results if a new situation arises where it becomes relevant?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e835	I think we always have to be alert and attentive to these questions, but now the device of the Norwegian military contribution is different than it was a few years ago. Now we have special soldiers in Kabul who train Afghan security personnel there, while the aid continues in the provinces. And as I said in my post, has, among other things, President Ghana and other independent actors, not only the authorities, said that Norwegian assistance is well organised, that it is relevant, and that it reaches those who need help and assistance most. We take that to heart, and we are making an ongoing assessment of how these resources can best be set up to reach those who need it most in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e840	Today, an evaluation of the Libya operation is agreed in the Chamber, and the Foreign Minister now announces that it will of course be followed up. The representative Halleraker previously held an article saying that for the Right, they were only talking about it because the former government party, the Workers' Party, went in for it, and they didn't like the idea that a party should go after what another party had done before, and that it had to be up to the party that then ruled. Just that post was a very strong argument that there shouldn't be party politics in it, but that it should have been a solid, institutionalized routine, and at least that it shouldn't be so that a government should now evaluate, but that there should be an external, independent review, as we've now got a very good example of with the Godal selection. My question is, will the government add up to an unsound, independent evaluation of the Libya operation, so that there is no partial political review from a government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e850	It is true, as the representative says, that the Stortinget wanted to carry out an evaluation in the appropriate form of the Norwegian military and civil participation in the Libyan operation in 2011. It is clear that the government will facilitate this, and it is natural that, after the decision has been taken in Stortinget, we will start work on looking at a possible device. It is natural to discuss this with the Stortinget along the way, as we did in the Afghanistan investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e855	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e860	I would like to thank all those who have contributed, and those who have given the utmost sacrifice and their families, in the fight against international terrorism and in the operations in Afghanistan. I will also send a greeting and a thank you to those who are there today and take risks on our behalf to do a job and solve a job. I would also like to refer to the statement I made on 10 January, which went a little bit deeper on some key issues than the time allowed now. I have therefore selected someone in this context. One is the question of evaluation. I believe that evaluations are very useful, and that is why it is done systematically and continuously when we participate in operations. In addition, it may occasionally be useful to have this type of major external evaluations, to which the Afghanistan Committee has made an excellent contribution in this context. At the same time, it is resource-intensive, and I think it is necessary to assess from operation to operation the appropriateness of external evaluations in addition to the evaluations carried out. The Chairman of the Committee, Mr Godal, said at the Committee's hearing on 17 February that the ongoing reporting may be more important than the large evaluations, because it may also lead to less need for the large evaluations if it is carried out in the course of the process. In terms of public debate on international operations, there are aspects of operational security, personnel security and relations with other countries that are not always suitable for the open debates. Nevertheless, both this government and the previous government stress that we have plenary debates on many of the major tasks, both regular debates on the Afghanistan contribution and debates on participation in new operations. I therefore agree with the chairman of the committee in the statement she has in a chronicle in the class struggle on 19 January: «At the same time, I believe that such decisions should be more closely accompanied by open debate. If we send soldiers out on behalf of Norway, we need an open and critical debate, although the government cannot share all information with the public.’ The government attaches great importance to keeping the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence updated on our strength contribution. To the Green Party's proposal, which seems to bring together a majority in the Chamber: it's a work that the government is already doing, and then along two lines. One is the question of national law, where the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice work together and have already had investigations. The second is the question of the international work done through the ICRC. There was a meeting in Norway at least just before Easter. It's a complex work, and I think we should be sober in terms of what national legislation can contribute to and what limitations it has, but it's still a work that it's important to continue. At the same time, I think it's important to stress that this is not a legal space. Detention in international armed conflicts is fully regulated in the Geneva Conventions, which contain more than 175 provisions dealing with all aspects of detention. The ICRC has assessed that the international law of war adequately addresses the humanitarian needs of those deprived of liberty in this type of conflict. In comparison, however, there are few laid down provisions for detention in non-international armed conflicts. It is therefore the Norwegian position that the rules applicable to detention in international armed conflict also apply as far as they fit in non-international armed conflicts, in order to provide protection to persons deprived of liberty. It is apparent from the manual of the international law of war, which is a Federal Ministry of Defence's manual. It deals with Norwegian views on central parts of the international law of the war, including detention, and is a binding code of defence. It is on 30 pages with detailed operationalisation of how to deal with people deprived of liberty in conflict. We are now in the final phase of translating the manual into English. In addition, the MR obligations of Norway, and there will also be specific rules in each operation on detention in the operational plan, in directives approved at political level – i.e. Rules of Engagement – and in detailed rules on the strength of the practical implementation of detention. Norway chose to enter into a bilateral agreement with Afghanistan on the follow-up of survivors, and there is some sample considered appropriate. At the same time, the selection points to a good number of dilemmas by making legislation – on page 169 of the selection setting – because international law also has an absolute prohibition on declaring that no prisoners should be taken in armed conflict, and it is demanding to cooperate with the authorities in many countries around it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e882	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e887	I would like to thank you for a very good post. There is broad agreement on the main points of this evaluation, but an area where there has been disagreement with the Minister of Defence, both when she stood in opposition, and today, is what was said about the integration of civil and military efforts. While there is broad agreement on better coordination of military and civil efforts, my question is whether the Minister of Defence believes that she has support in the Afghanistan report to integrate military and civil efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e892	At all levels from the Ministry and downwards, coordination of efforts is exceptionally important. What I said in the statement on 10 January was that all Norwegian public authorities, civil and military, should be coordinated and integrated. In fact, I believe it is important that the Norwegian authorities coordinate their efforts as well as they can. NGOs and international organisations, on the other hand, provide assistance based on humanitarian principles, and the interaction with those actors must therefore be based on those premises. I remind you that the selection of several places in the report, both on page 116 and on page 199, points to many of the dilemmas that just arose because such a clear distinction requires very close coordination. I'd like to quote from several of these passages. I just want to mention, for example, that they say, ‘However, the Norwegian authorities did not take responsibility for clarifying the implications of the Norwegian civil-military separation between efforts in Afghanistan. To a large extent, it was left to sentencing civilians and military personnel to find practical solutions to the challenges posed by the principal political leaders.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e902	One thing is what the Minister of Defense means. It is quite clear that there is a difference between the words ‘coordination’ and ‘integration’, it was quite clear in both my speech and the question I asked, but the Minister of Defence does not distinguish this. My question is whether the Minister of Defence will comply with what is the view of the great majority in this matter: that coordination of efforts is important, but that there should be a fundamental distinction between military and civil action.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e909	Now, as many people have been involved in this debate, it's not so much topical to do the same kind of effort that we did at the beginning of Afghanistan, because that phase of the operation is over, and the probability that we're going to go into similar operations on the same scale is not very big right now. But I think it is necessary to make concrete assessments of what serves best, and to follow the distinctions that go, of course, between the protection of humanitarian space and, in fact, to coordinate the Norwegian public effort in a manner that is appropriate. There is also the selection on page 116 of Chapter 8: ‘In general, the line of civil-military separation was difficult to translate into practical action for part of the Faryab effort.’ It tells a story that even if NATO's strategy was agreed at the strategic level, it was not implemented in practice. It created challenges, not just for Norway – because we were very separate from most other countries – it also created problems for those who were to carry out the ground effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e919	The representative Huitfeldt asked good questions without getting any answers. How asked questions about the Council of State are agreed in what the Afghanistan Committee points to, and I want to quote: ‘The Norwegian line with a clear distinction between civil and military action is, in principle, well justified in the wish to avoid the impact of aid projects on the armed conflict.’ My question is: is there an assessment in which the Council of State agrees, or is it inconsistent with the Afghanistan selection in this important area?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e929	I believe that if you're going to have such a fundamental distinction, which can have many good aspects, you're at the same time dependent on getting to the coordination that's so important. If not, the situation that the Afghanistan Committee also points to in several places in the sample report, namely that there will be uncertainty on the ground about how to carry out a mission, we will not be able to make optimal use of our resources, and we will therefore choose a different strategy from the strategy we agree on at the strategic level in NATO. We saw that with the PRTs – as the sample describes very well – where NATO really took a very different attitude on how the different PRTs were going to carry out their tasks. We had our own variant of what we were responsible for. In total, this did not help to draw the resources in the same direction. That's why I believe that when you set up these kind of fundamental divisions, you have to be very aware at the same time that there is a very clear need for coordination of efforts. If not, we will leave too much responsibility to those who are on the ground and will carry it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e936	Three good questions have been asked, but I do not feel that clear answers have been given. It is a clear plurality that will warn against the integration of military and civil efforts, and believes that there is no coverage in the Afghanistan Committee's report for a recommendation that military and civil contributions should be integrated. On the contrary, one suggests that studies of integrated stabilisation efforts carried out in five provinces in Afghanistan have not shown that this is a good thing. My question is: will the Council of State follow up the majority comment of the Stortinget and ensure that we continue with a practice where a different military and humanitarian effort from Norway is involved? The council said one must have a collective public effort. Yes, both military and humanitarian aid are public efforts, but will it listen to the committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e942	What I said in my post on 10 January, and which I have repeated today, is that the efforts made by Norwegian public authorities, which differ from those provided by NGOs, humanitarian organisations, etc., are absolutely crucial to coordinate. As I said, the situation is slightly different in Afghanistan now than when we had the most efforts, and when coordination was even much more important at a time, especially when we were responsible for the PRT. What I've been concerned about is that at all levels – from departmental level, which is at the highest level public authorities, and downwards – we have a clear sense of what the strategy is, and how we're going to work to achieve the goals we've set ourselves. Then it's vital that we have the same perception of what the mission is, and that we're well coordinated. The Afghanistan Committee also says that what was special for Norway was that what was supported at the strategic level in NATO was taken rhetorical and political distance from national. It is clear that then it will be difficult for those on the front line to carry out the mission on behalf of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e947	The left also supports the fundamental distinction between the civil and military efforts and the comment contained in the vote. Nevertheless, I fully agree with the Council of State that there must be a completely different effect of what we are doing, a completely different coordination when we are going to implement this in practice, as it turned out in Faryab. In the report produced by Lilland, there were many suggestions on how to achieve better coordination without challenging the principle of separation. So the council says that it's unlikely that you get a similar situation now, and that's probably true. This was probably thought back in 1998, that no one could predict what could happen, and you have to be prepared. Then my question is: does the Council of State think that good enough systems are in place to ensure the coordination that can be carried out without having to challenge the principle separation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e952	I believe that very many of the lessons we have learned from Afghanistan are lessons that we have definitely taken with us, and the sample has also pointed out that the way things were practiced exactly in this case, did not give the results you wanted. I believe that the Afghanistan Committee has made a very significant contribution to the understanding and insight we now have in the complexity of these types of operations, which are much bigger and much more demanding than any individual nation can manage to solve on its own or put a strategy on its own. Not least, we established much closer coordination mechanisms at department level along the way, and I think it is a key to understanding how to solve similar challenges if they are to emerge in the future. I fully agree that you can never know for sure what the landscape is going to look like, but the probability that a new operation – either a UN operation, a NATO operation or an operation by other coalitions – has the same magnitude, is probably not as great right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e957	The Council of State, as expected in its comment on the Green Party's proposal for the investigation of a law-enforcement body to secure the rights of prisoners taken by Norwegian forces to the human rights manuals of the war applicable to the Norwegian Defence Force. At the same time, the Godal report, as we see it, raises doubts as to whether prisoners transferred to others from Norwegian custody were actually granted their rights under international law. We also understand that there have been three years of debate on whether or not there is a need to look at strengthening this law. Can the Council of State clarify whether she believes that the manuals currently in force are good enough to take care of these considerations, or does she see the need to investigate a legal framework, which is likely to be adopted by the majority of the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e962	In my post, I was very clear that we're going to keep figuring it out, just like we've started doing already. I was concerned about stressing that national legislation in this context also has clear limitations, and that's precisely why we work along the international track, which is the most important thing here, so that several countries may agree on changes that will affect all countries and all countries' soldiers. I mean the manual we have, which is a detailed operationalization of the international law of war, and which is for purely practical use for our soldiers out there, with detailed descriptions of what one can and cannot do with prisoners, is a very good tool and a very good tool. It has also been said very positively by the Red Cross, and it is precisely because we go from presenting to our soldiers the Geneva Conventions and a code that may be difficult to take in, to give a practical description of how to do it. I believe it is important, and I note that the international debate that is going around this is complicated. It is probably only one country we are familiar with, namely Austria, which has a national legal system.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e967	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e972	In a debate on Norway’s efforts in Afghanistan, it is right and important to start by thanking the thousands of Norwegian women and men — with and without uniform — who have served in Afghanistan. Today we are widely represented in aid there, and we are also there in the military in the operation Resolute Support. This is also a special occasion for me on behalf of the previous government, and now in Stortinget, to remember the Norwegian soldiers who lost their lives, and also the civilians who have been killed and injured. On 12 September 2001, Article 5 of the Atlantic Charter was first and only used. The day before, our main ally had been brutally attacked by a terrorist organization with a detention centre in the time that the Taliban ruled Afghanistan. Here lies the origin of our Afghanistan exposure. In the years that followed, the military and civil presence has been firmly anchored in decisions of the UN Security Council. The Godal report provides a thorough review of the Norwegian involvement, military as civil. It's a good job and an important contribution to learning. I would just like to stress here briefly that the commitment has been demanding for those who have participated, but also for those of us who have had political responsibility. Three goals were important to the government I served: to prevent Afghanistan from becoming an arena for international terrorism, in line with the mandates of the Security Council; supporting Afghans in taking responsibility for their own security and development; joint action with our NATO allies; We should like a different and better development for Afghanistan and the Afghan people, but I believe that our choice of Norwegian involvement and participation has been right. So to what we were inside in the line chord shift. Norway made a political choice by distinguishing military and civil efforts. It is rarely very fruitful to conduct political debates again, but I think the Minister of Defense is calling for it when she maintains a ambiguity in the distinction between coordination and integration. The need for coordination of military and civil contributions is easy to join. Both operational coordination mechanisms and clear guidelines for the division of roles between military and civil. But I believe that the Minister of Defence does not have the majority of the Storting – and it is clear from the committee's position – with regard to including military and civil efforts. The Godal range writes: ‘The Norwegian line with a clear distinction between civil and military action is, in principle, well justified in the wish to avoid the impact of aid projects on the armed conflict.’ I would warn against saying that – yes, but coordination is necessary. Yes, that's necessary, but it's very clear what we mean when we want to avoid a kind of integration that makes the aid vulnerable and the military mission unclear. The purpose of the evaluation of the Afghanistan exposure by the Godal Committee has been both to draw the necessary lessons and to contribute to an open and informed debate on foreign and security policy. The scope and format may vary, but it is natural to undertake all major foreign operations. On the part of the Workers' Party, we do not share the concerns of the government parties, as expressed in the Committee's position, in order to establish a 'practice in which new governments carry out evaluation of their predecessors'. I think that's a terrible statement. We should have neat procedures for ensuring the review of major foreign operations. I hope we can do that without talking about the need for scrutiny, without putting established practices out of play, but it's quite natural that we get a systematic review of how we planned, carried out and summarised operations. That is why we welcome a proposal from the government on how we can, in an appropriate form, also review the experience of the Libya operation in 2011. It was an operation that had broad support in the Storting, and that took place under very demanding circumstances when it was started. It went quickly — it had to go quickly — and it was right for Norway to participate. But the lessons of what we then learn, and not least of what has happened, and what has not happened, after the military operation was over, will be useful to take, and I hope that we will get a good procedure for what stands in a good way with what this house should expect.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1006	I want to focus on our aid efforts in Afghanistan – a country that was in ruins. After decades of armed conflict and other demanding situations, state structures were completely destroyed in 2001. Much of the country's infrastructure, such as roads and mains, was collapsed. The health system almost did not exist, and maternal and child mortality was very high. Despite armed conflict, Afghanistan today has a young, albeit fragile, democracy. The first peaceful and democratic presidential change has also taken place. From 2001 to 2014, the average life expectancy has increased by about half. five years. Health services for women and children, combined with better nutrition, have contributed to the decline in infant mortality. World Health Organisation statistics on deaths per person 1 000 children under five have fallen from 137 in 2000 to 91 in 2015. In the recently received message to Stortinget, Meld. St. 24 for 2016-2017, Joint responsibility for the common future, for assistance, we read: ‘The Afghan authorities, with the assistance of Norway, among others, have contributed to a significant increase in the number of children in Afghanistan attending school. In 2001, about one million children, mostly boys, went to school. In 2015, about 8.2 million children went to school, almost 40 percent of them girls. Norway has contributed about six per cent of the major reconstruction fund for Afghanistan administered by the World Bank and nearly nine per cent of the contributions to the GPE, which are the two largest education actors in Afghanistan.’» [[ARTF]] These are basic investments for the future, not least for the future and rights of women in the country. At the same time, we are concerned that many of the registered children still do not go to school. Much remains to be done to improve the quality of education. It is important for the sender that the recipients have the ability to manage the funds they are to manage, but it is also important that the sender follows up, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has explained that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is constantly working to improve procedures and management, both in our partners and in our own systems, in order to make assistance more effective. The implementation of our assistance places great emphasis on cooperating with organisations that have good control procedures in their projects and programmes. That's good. Furthermore, as the Stortinget knows, Norwegian assistance to Afghanistan has been subject to several evaluations over the last few years. In this context, it is important to stress that one of the conclusions of the evaluations is that Norwegian assistance to Afghanistan has been appropriately structured. Support has also been adapted along the way, in line with the recommendations that have been made. It has been based on the needs of the country. It has been stable and reliable. The choice of sectors has been adapted to Afghanistan’s own priorities and other donors. The report of the Afghanistan Committee also underlines the need for good management of assistance, and this fortunately has a high priority from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But we cannot be naive, as the Foreign Minister said, when we are operating aid in one of the world's most corrupt countries with enormous humanitarian needs. It's not easy. And, as he also said, ‘[D] is not the children of Afghanistan who are responsible for poor governance.’ That’s why we cannot stop the aid. Within the strenuous framework that exists, we must try to do our best to achieve, both on the humanitarian side and on the aid side. I am pleased that the government has committed itself to continuing civil assistance to Afghanistan with some 700 million. kr in the year out of 2020. Afghanistan will thus remain one of the largest beneficiaries of Norwegian aid. Afghan authorities are expected to continue their efforts to implement reforms, combat corruption and safeguard women’s rights. Norwegian aid is concentrated on three key sectors of country development — first education, second industrial and rural development and, third, police, equality, human rights and anti-corruption. In 2016, aid for training to Afghanistan increased to about EUR 10 million. 50 million. kr. It shall not be less than 70 million. kr in the current year. The Government will continue to support Norwegian and international non-governmental organisations in Afghanistan. They are doing a very important job of reaching the population where the authorities do not have the capacity. Refugee Aid, Afghan Red Crescent and the International Red Cross Committee, the ICRC, are good examples of this. Contributing to the strengthening of equality and work for women, peace and security in Afghan society is an important objective for Norwegian efforts. Therefore, all our beneficiaries in Afghanistan are required to promote equality in their activities. Finally, I would like to refer to the Committee's joint comment that the situation in Afghanistan is worrying and that the international community must contribute for many decades to come. Yes, development takes time, as the foreign minister just said.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1043	Any debate about Afghanistan in this room is interesting, I think, and I join those who have given homage to everyone who has done a job for us out there. To the extent that we have not achieved the Norwegian targets and the Norwegian ambitions, it is not due to those who have been on the ground in Afghanistan. Then we have either given them targets that are unattainable, or not given them the framework tool to succeed. But it's a paradox: I've had the pleasure of visiting most of Afghanistan, not in the north, but I've been around the country several times. I have also been at home with today's president and visiting him privately. Had we invited someone from Afghanistan to listen to this debate, I think they had been shocked. We're discussing issues that they don't even want to know about. They will recognize themselves in infant mortality and in the fact that more people go to school. But more of our discussions I think they had distanced themselves from, they didn't understand what we're talking about. It has something to do with culture and understanding. The first time I was with Afghanistan, I met a member of the government with whom I discussed offers for girls and girls schools. He asked me why it was so important for Norway to build girls' schools. I said to us it's important that everyone goes to school and have an offer. Yeah, he said, but in our country we have tradition of the boys doing that, can't we say that we build schools for everyone in Afghanistan? Why are you pushing their values at us? Instead of building girls' schools, we can do our part to make everyone in Afghanistan go to school. I think he had a point, and I agree with that. But it's clear that when two cultures meet and we don't have mutual respect, how are we going to get results? Another thing he took up was aid projects. He said that in many of the larger countries, not Norway necessarily, a large amount is allocated and the contract is awarded to a national company in the country where the contribution was made. Then you go to Afghanistan and do a job, and the Afghans watch. As he said, what kind of relationship are we going to get in our own country that we haven't been in, and what ownership are we going to get? Again: Sometimes you have to listen to experienced mountain people. It is contained in Norwegian mountain wet rules and is also applicable in Afghanistan. If we can't take our way of doing things with us, but it's not certain that it fits in Afghanistan. I think that respect is one of the most important things to succeed in that way. I also think that the Godal report was very good, it has addressed a number of things that I had hoped the Committee would address even more – a discussion about the departments, about the former Ministry of Justice, about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and about the Ministry of Defence. It would be an exaggeration to say that everything has been painless. The transition from one PRT Chief to the next PRT Chief – was it floating? Was it optimal? Did the good enough effect? Or was it that we were just getting good enough results right away? At least I see to myself, after reading the report a few times, that we have an obvious potential for improvement. But again, we've gained experience, we've figured things out, and we've learned. But diversity is also a quality. For example, if you read about the Norwegian forces that have trained the CRU in Kabul, the Marines and the FSK, it's written in the report that the differences between them may make them better individually than together. But both of them have different qualities that contribute and that we can use. In that way, I think that's a quality. But the most important thing is to use the right tools, at the right time and at the right place. Once again, with corruption, which several others have been involved in: I think it's a dangerous policy to continue to give funds to a country where there's obviously not enough to deal with the problems of corruption. I understand that you have to do state construction. If you want a democracy, you have to have states and institutions that do the job. But it must be defended here as well. If we know that we indirectly contribute to corruption, can we defend it? How much is acceptable before we say no, now enough? I understand that you have to build states if you're going to build a democracy, but I think talking about Afghanistan as a Western democracy is an illusion. There is no great tradition of central power in Afghanistan. The power you have in Afghanistan is based on the different warlords in their regions and the power they actually allow Kabul to have. We can talk about democracy, we can wish for democracy, but at the end of the day it is the Afghans themselves who have to create their democracy, their way, their values and their basis. We can help them, we can help, and we're going to do it for a long time in the future, financially and in every possible way, but for Afghanistan, there is an Afghan solution, not a Western solution, that applies. And to those who believe that Afghanistan is safer today than it was 10–15 years ago: the answer is obviously no.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1060	It is not difficult, as many have pointed out, to find discouraging aspects of the situation in Afghanistan, even after all these years of trying to assist in the development of democracy, economy and modernity. But something has been achieved, as others have pointed out. In order to repeat something: women now have voting rights, six million more children get school, and there are built infrastructure that will be a necessary basis for economic progress. But it's still far ahead. But was there anything else to wait for than that change would take time – probably generations – in one of the world's poorest countries, ruled by war for 30 years, in a tribal society without democratic structures and barely enough national structures? Maybe that's the most important recognition. The expectations of how much and how fast it was possible to change a medieval patriarchal society were obviously too high. Optimism was far too great and did not take into account how demanding the starting point was. This is the experience we have to take on board. If we are to contribute to liberating processes and to the construction of democracy, the cultural and historical understanding of the societies we are to help in must be significantly improved. Nevertheless, when the SV and the Left in the setting – but I understood that the Left is leaving that comment – the conclusion of the evaluation committee's report that the ‘war in Afghanistan was an error’ is incorrect. Then you ignore what triggered the attack on the Taliban regime. And when you continue to note that ‘the Norwegian contribution did not contribute sufficiently positively to development or democratisation in Afghanistan’, you repeat the mistake that has been made, namely an excessive belief in what we could achieve. Because what we don't know is what would be the situation in Afghanistan — including international terrorism — if the international community hadn't responded. There is at least little reason to believe that the situation for the people of Afghanistan had been better, or that democracy had flourished more than is the situation today. With regard to the criticism of the lack of debate on our contribution in Afghanistan, I recall the annual statements and debates we have had here in the Stortinget. So it is not that there has been no debate or opportunity for debate in this Chamber. That consensus has been broad may have contributed to the absence of debate. But that's another thing, and today's debate has not given rise to such a great deal of commitment beyond the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1071	As I said in my first post, the Left does not believe that the efforts in Afghanistan have been a mistake. I took the floor now to say that the Left will also support the MDG proposal, not because we believe that there is some criticism of the assessments made in Afghanistan. As the sample also points out, the 2006 catch follow-up agreement and the follow-up of prisoners by Norway in Afghanistan also provide the basis for how to do this in future operations. But an investigation, which is contained in the proposal, we will also be able to agree on, which other parties have also voted in favour of from the pulpit. Otherwise, I think it's important to say that many people point out that the intelligence service's efforts have been very successful. Special forces are being promoted, in particular in the ongoing efforts with the Special Police in Kabul. From the left we are concerned that you need to have a strategic patience with the efforts that are. There is no goal in itself to continue to have a military effort, but if it is necessary, we still have to hold on by going in and out together. So I think it's also important to say that the strength contribution that was in Faryab has been successful as a military unit. Looking at the efforts made by those who have served, there is no doubt that they have done what they should have done in a difficult situation, and they have operated successfully as units. Then you can say that the actual organisation of the PRT was a difficult task – and whether it is something you would like to do again. But based on the situation, it's right and important, I think, that you have every reason to be proud of the efforts that have been made. This also applies to the mentoring tasks that have been carried out for many years. Where self-criticism may have to be greater, political decisions have to be taken. Because there is no doubt – and this also shows the debate today – that even if, as the Left does, there is a clear civil and military separation, we must get better practical solutions, as I pointed out. We have the Liland report, which has shown how to do this, at least proposals, without challenging the principle. But it's clear that we also had a Faryab strategy, as the sample says that gives no control signals and has no function. Here we have to do this in a much better way in the years to come. Finally, this is also the question of how we should describe the conflict. It took too much time before one was at all willing to describe this as an armed conflict, with the uncertainty that it was also for those who were in Afghanistan, who increasingly felt that they were in a regular war.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1087	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1103	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1112	I want to start by thanking for the cooperation in the committee on the matter and saying that the Christian People's Party has promoted several good proposals for us here. There is broad agreement on the broad lines of Norwegian development policy, and this is reflected in the draft representative. This is important to rehabilitate and build on. Norway is at the top of the world as an aid provider, both as a percentage of GNI and per capita. One percent of GNI goes to aid, also in 2017. We believe that the level of assistance should remain high. Over the last 20 years, about one billion people in the world have been lifted out of extreme poverty. It has occurred mainly through economic growth and deregulation in former Eastern Europe, China and India. The common denominator is a more open economy and extensive international trade. Help for development in other parts of the world is about our responsibility to help our fellow human beings, but it is also in Norwegian interest to ensure development and human rights, both for security policy reasons and to prevent instability, which can affect us again. The goal of Norwegian development policy is and remains to combat poverty. More than half of Norwegian aid goes to low-income and least-developed countries. Sub-Saharan Africa is the region that receives the most. We must not forget that an increasing number of the poorest people – over 70 pst. – lives in middle-income countries. Norwegian aid and development policies should focus on the thematic and geographical areas where Norway can make the greatest difference and can contribute most to the sustainability objectives, as promised in this case. Norway's humanitarian efforts this year are record high due to enormous needs. 5 B.C.E. kr for humanitarian aid is an increase of 50 pst. since 2013. The government emphasises continuity and predictability. But Norwegian aid, not least humanitarian aid, is also valued internationally because of our ability to respond quickly to new challenges. Therefore, I find it strange that the Workers' Party and several people are in favour of a distribution key of Norwegian assistance where a maximum of 10 pst. humanitarian aid shall be provided, i.e.: emergency aid in war, crises and conflict, when the needs and UN appeals are record-breaking. Only this year would our humanitarian aid have been reduced by about 1.5 billion. NOK if this had been applicable. And right now we see that the worst hunger disaster since 1945 has been taking place in several African countries and in Yemen. 1.4 million children are in danger of dying before summer. It is then amazing that the Norwegian wholesaler is ready to assume that emergency aid from us should have been reduced by 1.5 billion. kr. The Committee agrees that it is essential for Norway to follow up the commitments of the The Grand Bargain humanitarian summit in Istanbul in May 2016. There it was, among other things. adopted a target of 25 p.m. by global support for humanitarian aid should be channelled through local and national actors as directly as possible and that we should also contribute through global funding mechanisms such as the humanitarian land funds. The proposal to set up a kind of knowledge bank is also unanimous, and it is also part of the development communication on sustainability objectives and Norwegian development policy, to which the government presented it on 5 April, and to which I have referred in the past. International demand for professional skills is increasing, and cooperation programmes such as the Tax on Development, the Oil for Development and the Fish for Development are in demand. It is an advantage if such support is better coordinated. Therefore, as the proposers have invited, it makes sense to pool resources in a separate scheme under a common platform in Norad to provide technical advice to poor countries in selected sectors where Norway has special competence. The majority of the Committee also agree to further concentrate assistance both geographically and thematically in order to achieve better results. The number of countries receiving Norwegian assistance has been reduced by almost a quarter, from 113 in 2014 to below 90. Assistance over the civil society item and for emergency humanitarian aid is not covered by the concentration principle. The government has already reduced the number of aid agreements by around one third since January 2015. It is also a broad body within the Committee on Aid for Education and Training. The aid for education has doubled during this period of government. In 2017 is 3.4 billion. kr for education. More than 3 billion. kr goes to global health – 600 million. kr more than four years ago. Support for the UN and multilateral development banks is maintained at a high level. Norway is actively working for consensus within the UN that sustainability objectives are the basis of the UN’s work at country level and that UN reform is important. On the proposals: Proposals III, V, VII and VIII are promoted by an overall committee. Proposal IV is promoted by all parties outside SV. Proposals I, II, VI, IX and X are promoted by another majority consisting of all parties other than the Right and the Advance Party, which do not support these proposals. Also, the government parties do not support the minority proposal, which someone else would certainly like to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1148	Developmental aid works. Basic supply of vaccines and birth health care reduces infant mortality. Education contributes to growth and the fight against corruption contributes to increased foreign investment. That's why we have to keep going. However, we also need to learn from the mistakes made in Norwegian and international aid history and discuss how development aid can contribute to poverty reduction at a time of economic growth in many former low-income countries and the emergence of terror and vulnerable countries in other regions. We also need to contribute to more knowledge and competence. Therefore, it is important to gather this experience, as the Christian People's Party proposes and gets an impact on this proposal. The government statement states that during this ageing period we will be given a policy statement every year. We haven't got that. The government has continued its work on vaccines and increased its commitment to education. That's good. However, cuts have also been made, especially in the areas of climate aid and deforestation, without the changes being properly debated. In the field of renewable energy, this government has wiped out the billion-dollar budget of the Stoltenberg government. The newly announced so-called renewable energy investment represents only a fraction of the level in 2013 and work on reproductive health has been cut. In practice, the newly announced additional appropriations represent only a reversal of previous cuts compared to previous government appropriations in this area — and it becomes too small when the Trump administration implements dramatic cuts. I believe that the Christian People's Party representative proposal has contributed to a more focused debate on development policy than we have had in Stortinget in the last four years, and that is good. It has been important to establish that the objective of aid is poverty reduction. Today, it is particularly important in sub-Saharan Africa. We have therefore supported many of the Christian People's Party's proposals and have been in favour of some of them being further investigated. What we have supported include: greater coherence of Norwegian development policies, clearer and more predictable programmes in different areas and better knowledge transfer. I would like to thank the Christian People's Party for the proposal for a representative and for the rapporteur, who has made a solid contribution to our being able to write the committee together on essential points. Finally, I would like to address the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1161	The representative Anniken Huitfeldt has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1166	What is good about this matter is that there is a desire to reform development policy. Several of the proposals that have been put forward, we can agree across the party boundaries, while other proposals we may not agree as easily on. The Progress Party also meets the debate that will follow, on the government’s announcement of forward-looking development policy, because it is important to look at how Norway should best contribute to achieving the UN’s sustainability objectives through its foreign and development policy. Many important steps have already been taken in development policy since the accession of the Right-Fremskrit party government in 2013. The level is still high – 1 pst. of GNI. It must be said that for the Progress Party, the percentage itself is not important, but that is what we do, the needs, the results achieved, are important. Furthermore, we have reduced the number of countries receiving contributions — from 116 countries to now 85. We can't help everyone. Therefore, the focus on the thematic and geographical areas where Norway can make the greatest difference and contribute the most to sustainability objectives is important. This will help to optimise the results, because it is important that we have strict requirements for efficiency and control, and that we gain greater competence in follow-up and administration. At least that's the point. A concentration of the bet has been made, inter alia: education, health, business development and job creation, women and gender equality, agriculture and food security. Education is one of the main areas of activity, and its efforts have doubled during this ageing period, with particular emphasis on women. This with bets on women is important. Every year 300000 women die for preventable reasons in connection with pregnancy and childbirth. 99 pst. of these women residing in a developing country. Health services must be expanded. Furthermore, efforts are important for women's political and economic participation, the fight against violence and the promotion of sexual and reproductive health, in order for women to have the freedom and opportunity to shape their own lives. Industry development, job creation and tax revenue are important for poverty reduction and for contributing to economic sustainability and development. It is therefore gratifying that the Committee supports the government in increasing Norwegian support for industrial development in developing countries and facilitates strategic cooperation with Norwegian industry and Norwegian knowledge environments. In this there must be a good management set at the bottom. This is a fundamental prerequisite for any development, and it is therefore good that aid policy and Norwegian development policy are aimed at contributing to democracy and transparency. The focus on women’s economic development is not only on women’s economic position but can have a positive impact on the local and national economy. Women include: important actors in agriculture. We have very many goals and targets that we have set for our development policy, and it intervenes in most areas of human and society's life and function. Earlier today, I attended an internal seminar on development policy, which included: a historian with 40 years of experience made a very interesting post. We shall not dwell on what has gone wrong in the past, and I must admit that it has also been done very well, but there are a few things that are nevertheless important to bring. Experience has shown that, in the case of projects that have not been fully successful, we have had too much money to spend on too many projects. We gave way too much. Then we established at an too high level, which was difficult for the recipients to continue, and the lesson is that we need to have more focus on receiving responsibility. The concentration of bet areas, as I have already mentioned, is good, but it is also very wide. I hope we won't lose too much again. Developing societies and institutions has proved to be a very demanding job. Finally, the world has changed a lot since Norway started with assistance many decades ago, and the world is still changing very rapidly. Norwegian development policy has to deal with this. We now know that there are trade and business developments that contribute most to people's poverty and that allow countries to develop further, so that they are permanently out of poverty. The Progress Party believes that real development is created at grassroots level, where people themselves take responsibility for their own development. That's not all that can be controlled from the outside, it has to grow in the countries themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1189	As one of the rapporteurs for the Christian People's Party's proposal for a reform of development policy, I am very pleased with the positive outcome of the vote and also in the debate today. When the Christian People's Party last harvest first presented its own development message and then this comprehensive representative proposal, our aim was to create a new debate and a renewed development policy for more effective assistance. The need for a fundamental debate was due, inter alia, to: these developments: Assistance to middle-income countries has increased at the expense of poor countries in sub-Saharan Africa. Assistance remains fragmented in many sectors and goes to at least 85 selected countries. In recent years, Norwegian aid has become more unpredictable, with large and severe fluctuations in appropriations. The core competence for assistance and management capacity are in the process of becoming confused. The development of the budgetary structure has over time reduced the visibility and influence of the Stortinget on the priorities through the annual budgets. Therefore, we promoted an unusually large number of concrete proposals to provide important leadership that could affect the government's work on the development message that would come in the spring session. Let me thank the other parties, who have contributed to the adoption and majority of many of these proposals. This has also affected the content of the government’s new development message, and that is good. Today, with the decisions that are now being taken, the size of the population provides important guidance on what is to be done in development policy in the future. I'll try to reach out at least five important grips. Firstly, it is important for a majority to support a stronger geographical and thematic concentration of assistance, which suggests that there is a limited number of partner countries that will receive a larger volume of assistance. This will prevent the fragmentation of Norwegian assistance that we have seen in recent years. Secondly, it is important that an overall increase now determines that efforts for vulnerable countries should be based on clear criteria. Today, when the Storing decides to call on the government to give priority to the vulnerable countries that are most dependent on the poverty indicators of the UN Sustainable Development Goals, which are considered to be the most vulnerable according to the OECD’s vulnerability criteria, it is an important breakthrough for the Christian People’s Party. It is a majority in the UK that now states that development concerns should outweigh Norwegian interests. In our opinion and opinion, this means that there are no security policy or migration-related self-interests to guide the efforts of vulnerable countries. Thirdly, it is very important that the majority of Storting now give a clear signal that there is a need for a reform of the whole aid management system. Although different parties have different traditions as to the extent to which the Storting should give guidance signals on administrative matters in the government, this is a clear political signal. It is also very important that the majority ask the government in the budget proposal for the autumn to add up to a new budgetary structure. It may sound technical, but it is very important for the popular governance of the assistance. Fourthly, it is very good that poverty orientation in Norwegian development policy is now strengthened. The majority of the population is in favour of a non-declining proportion of the least developed countries and an increase in efforts to assist countries with the main development challenges, such as several sub-Saharan Africa countries. It is also very good that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Left support the detection of an indicative distribution key, which can ensure a predictable prioritisation of long-term poverty-oriented assistance. These five interventions are very important and will contribute to a stronger poverty orientation, greater predictability of assistance and a more long-term response to both the region and the country. This is essential for Norway to help us achieve the sustainability goals. Although there is a lot of good in the government's development message, it still contains none of these five grips. Therefore, it is necessary that the Storting make these decisions today. In addition, we, on the part of the Christian People's Party, are pleased with the important impact of extending the period of framework agreements for non-governmental organisations, so that they can have more predictability of their activities. We are very pleased that the Knowledge Bank, a common technical assistance platform, will now be established, which the government is also in favour of. It is positive that the Storting is now asking for the humanitarian commitments of the Istanbul Summit to be implemented and that transitional assistance should be assessed in this context. Finally, development policy is more than aid. It is therefore of great importance that there is now a majority in the United Kingdom for a reform of consensus. This means that Norway’s footprint is also more relevant to the interests of developing countries in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1231	I want to start by thanking our friends in the Christian People's Party for their extensive work and well-written representative proposals on reform of Norwegian development policy. The Central Party and the Christian People's Party have a long history of good cooperation, and that is not least about development policy. In this matter, we stand together with the Christian People's Party in the vast majority, as many of the same values form the basis for our development policy. The objective of development policy is to reduce and eliminate poverty in the long term. The centre party wants to facilitate a society with less inequality, both nationally and globally. If we are to close it down, Norway must consider the long term in the aid policy. Long-termity is a key element – and one of the most important aspects of this proposal for a representative. We have to think long-term and act prudently. Thematic efforts are important, not least in the interest of different civil organisations, to contribute to the development of the countries where they work. We need to think in the long term to prevent sulphur disasters, which in turn feed conflicts and other crises. The case-speaker refers to the growth of the Humanitarian Aid Trust. A long-term focus on food production may reduce the level of acute immediate solutions. I would like to underline the importance of Norway following up the countries receiving Norwegian aid in the future bilaterally. All Norwegian assistance shall not enter large funds where the control and information we receive passes through the boardrooms in Washington or other head offices, but, on the contrary, is still managed bilaterally. The proposal on far-sighted and long-term assistance efforts in specific sectors such as health, education, business development, agriculture/food security and climate is very important. The centre party was in the management of the committee clear that agriculture and food security must be an own field of activity, not just a sub-theme of nutrition development, and I am very happy that all parties agree on this in the setting. Development policy requires us to make sure that all people meet their most basic needs. It's hard to provide education and learning that makes sense to those who walk around the silt, without access to clean water. In the setting, it is often referred to the UN's conservation targets, and I am pleased about that. The central party believes the UN's conservation targets point a right path. While Objective No 1 says that poverty is to be eradicated in the world, making goal no. 2 it is clear that one should eradicate sulphur, achieve food security and better nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture. Norway has a high level of competence in agriculture, which we must benefit from in our development work. An agriculture that increases productivity based on sustainable land management and natural resources is crucial to lift more people out of poverty. There are no other industries that can compare with agriculture when it comes to creating employment and economic distortions for the very poorest in the world. Studies have shown that the most effective way to reduce poverty is to support small farmers in developing countries. A single committee determines that equality and the strengthening of women's rights should be integrated into all development policies. This is important. Strengthening women’s rights and improving equality in several countries of reception is an objective in itself. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure economic development and a fair distribution of resources. That's well documented, among other things. by the World Trade Organisation, strengthening women's economic, political and social rights strengthen democracy and facilitate better economic development. In the setting, the Center Party, together with the Christian People's Party, Left and SV, states that the voluntary organisations are very decisive in the fight to eradicate poverty. The central party wants to support the construction of nation states that are governed by a living democracy and the decentralization of power. Spreading power has led an active civil society in each country. Many of the major democratic reforms in the world have come from civil organisations. A recent example is the Quartet for National Dialogue in Tunisia, which received the Nobel Peace Prize in 2015. A Joint Committee notes that it is important that civil society organisations have the opportunity to work with a long-term perspective. It is necessary to confirm this by a group of caverns. Civil organisations must be vigilant in their work. In the government's proposal for the 2016 government budget, there was one example of the exact opposite. The government then, in effect, proposed a comprehensive conversion of Norwegian aid policy, in which the commitment to civil society would be dramatic. This was the reason why the Central Party in its 2016 alternative development budget increased the promises of civil society by nearly 1.3 billion. Compared to the government’s budget for 2016 and to the Stortinget’s decision, which rejected such a major conversion in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1250	As others have done before me, I would also like to thank the proposers for promoting an important issue. There are many good suggestions here, and the Left supports most of them. This proposal for a representative must also be seen in connection with St.meld. 24 for 2016-2017, Joint responsibility for the common future. The sustainability objectives and Norwegian development policy, which the government presented just before Easter. The left will give priority to the sustainability objectives aimed at combating poverty while at the same time creating a sustainable climate. It's just about the future. This means that we need to give priority to areas such as climate and environment, clean energy, knowledge, business development and gender equality. Good and strong international cooperation is incredibly important to achieve these sustainability goals. Most of the world's poorest now live in middle-income countries. A growing gap between rich and poor is not sustainable. A different way to solve poverty problems now is required than in the past. Success in poverty reduction requires all countries to demonstrate their willingness and ability to pursue active policy of distribution and to build institutions for this purpose. It's e.g. important with a functioning tax collection system, a sustainable resource management, etc. Norway is well placed to participate in global poverty reduction efforts. We have capital, and we have relevant knowledge in some areas, but we have to use our resources wisely. That is what this proposal for a representative says a lot about. Research is not specifically mentioned in this proposal, but it is important for the future formulation of Norwegian and international development policies to focus on research and look at research. Then you can know how to get out of poverty, both as a nation and as poor parts of a society. Through research, we can see how Norwegian development policy actually works, and not least through research, we can find out how we create development mechanisms and incentives that make beneficiaries of aid less dependent on them. The left considers that Norway has a moral responsibility to contribute to the reduction of poverty in the world. It should therefore be a goal of 1 pst. GNI shall be used for development purposes. At the same time, we must work towards a reduction in the need for this contribution. What, then, are the incentives and mechanisms that must work? We know too little about that, so we need more research in this area. The vote on this proposal for a representative clearly states that Norway should pursue a feminist development and foreign policy. Here we agree, all the parties, that we should have both a targeted women's and gender equality policy and a women's and gender equality policy that permeates all development policies. Norway has been clear in gender equality policy internationally for a long time, but also this proposal for a representative is clear words for the money, and it obviously delights a left-wing heart.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1271	Thanks again to the case spokesperson for good and thorough work on an unusually large proposal for a representative. Since this is the day of reports that are behind matters in the Storting, it may be worth mentioning the original report, or the message, which is the Secretary General of the Christian People's Party, Hilde Frafjord Johnson, the leader of the work, and which the Christian People's Party previously presented. It formed a little of the basis for this and was, quite rightly, more extensive, but, in my view, quite good and interesting. In addition, I thank the proposers, who took it further. There's a lot of interesting things to say about this setting. That's how the plural and the point of view go a little bit across. A good deal of important things are at the heart of the Committee. But if I were to draw out one continuous move at this setting, there are how many places the three center parties, the Working Party and SV are together and have the same devices and understanding of development policy – which the Right and the Advance Party do not share. Almost every place, that's all of the games. Some places there are four out of five that stick together, but they're equally full. Let me cite seven examples among many more in this setting: All five parties agree to implement a convergence reform in development policy and briefly describe it in the setting. All parties agree that one should not reduce to the least developed countries, which are particularly affected by poverty. At the same time, the same five parties agree that we should pursue an active policy of distribution as part of development policy, including within countries, for example. means that intermediate countries must be important. The two objectives may conflict with each other, unless one has a significant boost in Norwegian aid in the years to come. Then we stand together – that is. In fact, the Christian People's Party does not agree, but nevertheless – that peace and reconciliation work should be unacceptably concentrated on Norwegian aid, of which there is broad agreement, i.e. that peace and reconciliation as well as other things should be excluded. The five parties agree on the common vulnerability criterion, which is described in the message in the context of a vulnerability strategy to be decided by the Storting. We agree to strengthen the assistance managed by voluntary organisations. Although there are slightly different comments, we agree on a common proposal at that point. And we agree on the need for a reform of aid management, which is described here, and with which there will be a need to work. In addition, I think that the same five games a number of times in Stortinget have shown the ability to find good solutions together in matters where there is disagreement about value issues – or other important questions. For example, when it comes to the role of the rainforest bet, it is now. common note from four – all except the Workers' Party – that it should remain and be managed as today, failing in a slightly different perspective in the past, for example. between SV and Christian People's Party. In equality issues, a common point of view is closer, although there is still a slightly different view of how equality should be maintained than heavier. And of course I could have added one more important point: it's these five games that have gone over time to at least 1 pst. GNI shall be provided for assistance and shall be retained for a considerable period of time now. So, perhaps more clearly, I would say, this attitude shows that there is a great basis for a very good solution between the centre and the left in Norwegian policy in that part of foreign policy, and that the main dividing lines are between the Right and the Advance Party on the one hand and the rest of the parties on the other. And it's important, I think, to bring yourself into the years that are coming, regardless of how it should develop with the government – that is. not entirely independent of it, but a little independent of it – that means that there is an established majority in Norwegian development policy to continue to ensure development, both innovation within the field and by having a stake in it over the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1305	I then place as an anchor in the hallelujah choir the good initiative of the Christian People's Party in this matter. We in the Green Party fully support the overall issues raised by the Christian People's Party in this proposal, and in particular I would like to stress the proposal to which several other parties also subscribe on the subject of cohesion reform. Not only is it generally important to coordinate development policy itself and other instruments in Norwegian policy, but it is particularly important to address what the Greens have repeatedly pointed out, namely that we have a development policy, we also need to use the heaviest instruments available to us to promote the objectives of that development policy. In particular, the oil fund is important, as a tool for sustainable development that limits disasters and other unfortunate events in developing countries, and the long-term climate impact of Norwegian oil policy, which will in the long term become a main cause of the need for disaster relief due to natural disasters and subsequent migration. In the Green Party, we are pleased that there is broad agreement on the broad lines of development policy: human rights, poverty orientation, participation and non-discrimination, climate and environment, women's rights and equality, along with anti-corruption work. I am pleased that it is also underlined by the government in the development message that the poverty response should be reinforced. We'll get back to that message, and it'll be an exciting debate. Then we are similarly disappointed that over several years the government has used the refugee situation as an argument to cut, not least, in long-term climate and environmental aid, which is aid that is precisely at the root of limiting the need for disaster relief in the future. However, with regard to the proposal by the Christian People's Party for an indicative distribution key for different parts of the aid, with percentages of how much to each sector, the Green Party does not agree. We have great sympathy for the thinking, which is clearly defending parts of the aid that may come under pressure in emergency situations, and we definitely want to follow that discussion, but we believe that the approach proposed here is so rigid that we cannot support it. We record that, as far as we know, we are on the verge of this matter, and it is then that we are turning the majority away from the disfavor of the Christian People's Party proposal. They'll forgive us, and then we'll have to take that discussion on. The Green Party certainly believes that measures for asylum seekers here in Norway should not be financed from the aid budget, but of course we need flexibility in the aid budget to adjust the allocation between development aid and emergency aid when necessary – that is not predictable situations. With this, I think I'll finish this little post, even if there's a little bit of time left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1320	Let me begin by giving tribute to the Christian People's Party for its central role in development policy. I have to disappoint the representative Rasmus Hansson, who thought he was supposed to be an anchorman in this way, but I would like to state that much of the thinking of the Christian People's Party's representative proposal has now also been continued and concreteized in the government's communication to the Stortinget on Norwegian development policy. It is also right to recall that in the last four years, the government has made budgetary settlements with the Christian People's Party, where the Christian People's Party has also had a considerable hand on the steering of the Norwegian aid policy mechanism in the last four years, which has been very good – a very constructive cooperation. Some people in this area have been a little bit more concerned with the map than with the terrain. The terrain in this area is that there has been a broad consensus in the Stortinge on the device, and the Christian People's Party has been included in the budgets and the arrangements that have been adopted. That's not sure that's the exact same thing as the map you want to draw, but it's now just so that the terrain wins over the map. Through the sustainability objectives, the global community has set ambitious targets: poverty is to be eradicated by 2030. At the same time, we are faced with a challenging situation characterised by war, conflict, and an international work of norms under pressure. I fully agree, and have confirmed in the Storing Communication, that it is the poverty orientation that applies in Norwegian development and aid policy. At the same time, I want to put forward a dilemma for the Stortinget, because there are several people here who have said that the government has not done enough to concentrate on a poverty orientation. At the same time, however, it is those representatives who have also emphasised that, for example, they should be able to do so. The rainforest bet is crucial, which I also agree with, but the rainforest bet makes Brazil the main destination of Norwegian aid, and this happened for eight years with a red-green government. I don't criticize it. I'm in for it. But there has been one of the reasons why poverty orientation has fallen slightly into Norwegian aid. At the same time, the poorest countries are affected by climate change, so this is something we must include in the further discussion. Another reason why poverty concentration has fallen slightly is that we have increased humanitarian efforts by 50 pst. Because of the terrible disaster — the worst humanitarian disaster that has hit the world since World War II — that is now in its seventh year of existence in Syria. Syria and neighbouring countries, at least Lebanon and Jordan, are actually defined as middle-income countries in the lower-level. But of course, a country facing the kind of asymmetrical challenges needs help. And so has the Stortinge. It shows some of the flexibility that is also needed in the design of a forward-looking aid budget. I fully agree with those who say that development policy is far more than assistance. As an instrument, assistance is close enough to achieve the sustainability objectives. How should Norwegian development policy be designed in such a situation? How do we use the assistance as effectively as possible? The sustainability objectives represent a new approach to development. They're universal. They commit us all. Countries are interdependent. Different policy areas are interrelated. We must ensure that the whole of Norwegian policy contributes as far as possible to the development of poor countries. We are proposing the creation of a wide-ranging forum to help our policies become even more coherent. I think that is also constructive input from the Committee on this. The same applies to proposals on, for example: to create a separate unit in Norad to work with, inter alia: capacity building.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1341	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1346	I do not know if the Minister for Foreign Affairs has realized that there is a desire from the Storting to have far greater influence over what is the development budget. There has been a continuing criticism of this government, which has also been promoted in the various budgetary processes, that there is so much flexibility here that the Biggest does not really determine how Norwegian development aid should be operated. That is quite a big and fundamental criticism. There has also been no policy presentation in this wholesale hall. So my question is, how will the Minister for Foreign Affairs follow up the clear decisions taken in Stortinget, that the Stortinget should be more closely involved in the priorities of Norwegian development policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1353	The Stortinget is now being invited to a very thorough review of the development policy and its device through the Storing Message submitted. There will be an important review of this during the spring, also based on the document 8 proposal that the Christian People's Party has promoted. I think this is a crucial discussion that will lead the way forward. It is also important that we have a relatively broad consensus on the design of development policy and investment, so that there are no major changes. We have e.g. continued the important effort made by the previous government in terms of health and vaccinations. Then we've brought in education, which is important to continue. Now, when the Storting asks for a more detailed and indicative review also in the proposition of the different countries, I take note of that. We have continued what was the principles of the previous government regarding the level of detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1360	It has been such that there has been a decision in this Chamber that more will be presented to the Stortinge on what to spend money on in development aid. There have been large sack posts, and the Storting has in fact not had any influence. There has been too much day-to-day development policy and too little long-term. But my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is why no annual policy statements have been made, as stated in the Government Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1367	First of all, with the budget. There we have mainly continued the practice of the previous government with regard to the devices. But I see that the Storting now wants indicative proposals in terms of land distribution. That's something I think is completely curative, and of course I'll come back to it. What has been important to me is to do the big and more fundamental discussions on the stakes in the propositions, and if the Storting has not been satisfied with it, it has always been possible for Stortinget to go to work more detailed – there have been quite fundamental questions about this. I have integrated the development statements into the annual foreign policy statement and I believe it has worked well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1374	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good report. It was good to see that the commitment was so great that he did not stretch half of what he had written initially. I would also like to point out that for the Christian People's Party, we are pleased with the position that exists – where we have a majority of the government parties, but also where we have a majority with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the others. But I would like to stress that we are well pleased with the insights we have received in this period. It's historic that it's been 1 pst for the first time. Every year, education is again job number one – and that's how we could still. At the same time, as Huitfeldt's representative was involved, there is less opportunity for Stortinget to control the details. There are large bag posts, as was said, as it is fully possible to move from one to the next. What Biggest has been concerned about over a long time – not only under this government, but also in the past – is that one has wanted greater predictability and greater control. Now Stortinget says we're going to get a more detailed budget. My question is – as a follow-up to the representative Huitfeldt: Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs prepared to present a more detailed budget as early as 2018, as the Stortinget now says?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1387	It is clear that I am prepared to present a more detailed budget when the Storting asks for it. There are also many reasonable arguments for it, so ‘that’s a Done Deal’. In the case that we now for the first time in a magnification period have had 1 pst. of GNI for aid and development each year, it is not least because of the efforts of the Christian People's Party. Under the red-green it wasn't 1 pst. of GNI for assistance each year, so that it has inter alia: Christian People's Party was involved in achieving. With the major humanitarian crises and the major poverty crises we are now facing, this has been an important initiative. We've doubled the investment in education, as we promised. We've increased the bet on health. We have increased the humanitarian effort by 50 pst. We have initiated many donor country conferences: Syria, now, at the latest, Lake Chad. So Norway has also taken leadership in development during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1394	Thanks for the answer. It was clearly a ‘done deal’. We note that, and we look forward to a more detailed budget for 2018. But the Minister of Foreign Affairs was in on this with maps and terrain. I was interested in some of the things that we experienced from Stortinget regarding the possibility of control, and that is also why we are promoting such detailed proposals, as many would have seen, the government's task was to implement. Had we been in government, we would hopefully have had the Minister of Development and could have implemented the policy. One of the points on which there has at least been rhetorical discussion, but I also believe there is a political disagreement, is vulnerability and what vulnerable states are. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has announced a vulnerability strategy. At least it has been a year and a half without it coming, and it was not mentioned in the message either. But in the setting today, the Storting is doing quite a lot of work when we describe what are vulnerable states or vulnerability strategies. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs come up with a strategy? And in that case, will he come to the Storting with it, so that he also anchors it here?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1403	I think there are very useful and good references in this Document 8 proposal and in the vulnerability setting. Vulnerable states are also those countries that face the greatest challenges of achieving sustainability goals – even when it comes to achieving the Millennium Goals. No States in the armed conflict have been able to achieve all the Millennium Goals. That we have to help more in vulnerable states, as there are also the most marginalised and the poor, I believe that it is in line with what is also the Storting's intention. As far as strategies are concerned, they are not presented to the Stortinget. There are large-scale messages being presented to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1411	Governments are talking hotly in their speeches about achieving the goal of eradicating poverty. Studying, including from the World Bank, has shown that the most effective way to lift large numbers of people in the poorest countries out of poverty is to support the peasants. Governments have looked for an increase in the safety of emergency food, but long-term aid for food security is significantly reduced and downgraded, cf. the report by Norad on the food security strategy. Long-term aid for food security and nutrition in combination with environmental and climate assistance may be the most important strategy to reduce the need for emergency food aid. What is the reason why government and government have reduced long-term food security and nutrition support spending so much?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1418	You also have to include in that calculation the significantly increased bet on Norfund that the government has made. Norfund has increased by 25 pst. during the period, and an important part of Norfund’s mandate is to support agriculture. Climate-smart agriculture is also part of the climate action. But now Stortinget has a unique opportunity – in connection with this big message – to discuss long-term bets. If you want – at the top of the efforts we already have, on humanitarian efforts, on education, on health, on climate, on rainforest and on gender equality, as a whole, and on human rights – to bring in an even more significant commitment from Norway to agriculture, it will be a large and new area. At the same time, Stortinget says we don't have to spread too much, we're going to bet on fewer countries. So these are balances that the Storting gets, then.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1423	The question is why has not been asked. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1428	The next and last representative is Bård Vegar Solhjell.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1433	The discussion about the map and the terrain is much easier than the discussion about the hens and eggs – the terrain wins. But the terrain in this case is that every year in the previous ageing period, from 2009 to 2013, it was proposed and adopted 1 pst. of GNI for assistance. During this period, all the opposition parties have proposed the same thing, while the government has not proposed it every year, but it has been agreed as part of the adaptation to the political map, because the Christian People's Party and the Left have been passed. The terrain here is also that we have a setting that for the first time in this period goes a little bit through the ideas that the parties have. It turns out that the five opposition parties are very much together, and that the Right Party and the Advance Party are often not together with us. So I could think of asking why the Right Party and the Progress Party are not involved in the comment on a cohesion reform, because they are not involved in the comment on an active policy of sharing, and why they are not involved in the comment and the proposal to strengthen the assistance to voluntary organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1440	I became a little uncertain when it came to the eight years of red-green government. Very familiar it was probably two years you did not achieve the goal of 1 pst. of GNI. Since it was a majority government, I guess it wasn't in the proposal that came to the Stortinget. In the four years with the Right and Advance Party in government, there has been 1 pst. of GNI each year. But as I said, not least the Christian People's Party has played a crucial role in this way. But for me, it's not the only gratifying thing if you have 1 pst. of GNI or 0,95 pst. of GNI. As far as the device is concerned, and not least this with the cohesion reform – how do we have a trade policy, how do we have a private sector policy and investment that supports the aid? The relative importance of assistance is smaller and many other elements are more significant. That is what I think we have come up with in a good way in the Sustainable Development Communication, which sees this much more in context, and which also introduces this with the inclusive, inconsistency elements, of which the representative was concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1447	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1454	I won't erase the debate, I think it's been a nice round. I draw myself simply to go through the situation when it relates to the level of assistance, since there was a discussion. When the red-green government took over in 2005, the level was significantly below 1 pst. of GNI. That time we came in after the Bondevik government – as the Foreign Minister knows well, because he put in it – and then we stepped up, every year, the level of assistance. The first budget was on 1 pst. by GNI – ‘correct me if I am wrong’, but it was the 2009 budget, if I don’t think wrong – so that the entire period afterwards was 1 pst. of GNI. So at first nothing was suggested when the new government came in, but commendably agreed at that level every year in this period. I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it says everything about the levels, but it is the story of how it has been, and for many years now it has been that the five opposition parties, in their budgets on the Stortinget, have suggested that the level should be at least 1 p.m., while the Right and Advance Party under the Red-Green Government made significant cuts in aid, both parties. The right shall be correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1461	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1479	The election and government change in Myanmar in 2015 was an inspiration for all those who are concerned with democratic changes in the world. At the same time, the military is still in considerable political power. The Government does not have a mandate to halt the military aggression in its most serious conflict areas. The Constitution ensures military control of security policy, veto law against constitutional changes, control of three major departments, including the country's administrative system and police forces. The constitutional power of the military is a key challenge for the further reform process. For Norway, which has been working for democracy and human rights in Myanmar for 25 years, it is more important than ever to support political processes that strengthen a elected government at the expense of the military. It is important to seek political solutions to political problems, which are examples of both the civil war and the conflict in the Rakhine State. We've seen in the last year that the military uses security as an argument for brutal acts with great suffering for the civilian population. In the Rakhine State, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and Human Rights Watch have reported abuses in which more than 1,000 royalya Muslims have been killed and 70,000 have been displaced. In the Kachin State and the Shan State, the military offensive has undermined the credibility of the government in the peace process. More than 100,000 people are internally displaced, giving reason to doubt the military's will for peace. There is a high risk that the escalation of conflicts will lead to a setback in the country’s process of democratisation and peace. Further political reforms and peace are essential in order to reduce military control over policy. Peace is also absolutely necessary to invest in the resource-rich Länder, without creating conflicts. Norway has a strong tradition of political involvement in the fight for democracy, peace and human rights in Myanmar. In recent years, economic development and business cooperation have been emphasised. Investment is positive, but the challenges of transition to democratic governance and political conflict resolution persist as fundamental challenges. This situation requires a balanced approach to both peace and democracy support, development cooperation and corporate exposure. Norway has a special responsibility in Myanmar, and I want to illustrate that by pointing in three areas. The first is purely historical. In the 1990s, Norway was a clear voice for liberal values, democracy and human rights and an articulate opponent of the military regime. Following the award of the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991, Aung San Suu Kyi was followed up with financial support for the exile government, the Democratic Voice of Burma radio station and political actors and organisations, channelled through the Norwegian Burma Committee. These measures remain an important reason why Norway is in a special position in Myanmar, and are still benefiting Norwegian business. The second is political and economic. Norway was among the first Western countries to support the reforms of the military regime from 2011. Norwegian business operators benefited from Norway’s new policy. This triggered strong criticism in the autumn of 2015 from Aung San Suu Kyi, who believed that the Norwegian authorities were far less concerned with political reforms than with economic interests. After all, there are large, heavy companies involved in Myanmar, such as Telenor, Statoil and Statkraft. The third is peace exposure. Norway was strongly committed to the peace process, but the commitment has not yet resulted in a national truce. The road to political negotiations will be very long. Myanmar now has its first elected government since 1960. The success of the process of democratisation is important beyond the borders of Myanmar. After 50 years of military dictatorship, the challenges in Myanmar are in line. Norway has unique competence in several economic/industrial fields, such as offshore gas extraction, telecoms and hydropower, but we must not forget that our long-standing commitment to democracy and human rights has given a similar unique competence, which has helped to create trust between the parties in Myanmar. While the Norwegian authorities are working to invest and liberalise the economy, this must be followed up by supporting the country's political processes for peace, democracy and human rights. If Norway has ambitions to contribute to the success of Myanmar’s political reforms and peace, strong Norwegian Myanmar competence with good networks is required. A network is needed for political parties, ethnic organisations and other tone-setting actors in Myanmar. Support for local civil society can be an important contribution to sustainable democracy. However, reaching the political level is at least as important. The time to the next national elections in 2020 will be crucial for the future of the country. At this critical time, we are dependent on knowledge and understanding of what is happening and what international actors can do to strengthen the democratic process. The competence of Norwegian actors is unique and needs to be strengthened. In recent years, Norwegian investment has increased significantly in Myanmar, and there is a greater need to provide advice and follow-up to investments. For Storting, it is important that state companies work responsibly in a country that has a partly military government. The Myanmar network at Stortinget is a continuation of the PD-Burma, which the Minister of Foreign Affairs himself has led. The Burma Committee has coordinated this work, which has enabled us better elected members of the people to follow Norwegian policies regularly in Myanmar. The Norwegian Burma Committee has been working in Myanmar since 1992 – 25 years this year, most of the Norwegian organisations – and has a strong position in the international Myanmar environment. It is a unique political network within the country and has strong confidence among key political actors, a competence that is crucial in the situation where we are now, where there is a democratically elected government in Myanmar, but together with an undemocratic constitution. It is important in the situation we are in now, to have competence also in Norway in what is the military's responsibility – especially towards the rowingya and the situation in the Rakhine State, but also in the north of the conflicts that are in the states of Shan and Kachin – how much responsibility it really has and how much responsibility it is that remains in the military. It's hard for us to get into, and it's also hard to see what the consequences are. It is essential that we have that competence also in Norway, about what the real power conditions in Myanmar are. Now I am excited and would like to hear what the Minister for Foreign Affairs thinks about how we can and should contribute to the important democratisation, peace and reconciliation work in Myanmar.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1509	First of all, I would like to thank the representative Ola Elvestuen for travelling an interpellation on Myanmar, which is – with the system we now have – an important focus country, and I would also, at least from my side, propose that it become a partnership country in the future. Norway has an important position in Myanmar, and there are investments that we should of course continue. A year has passed since the first democratically elected government in over fifty years took power in Myanmar. Under the leadership of Aung San Suu Kyi, the authorities are showing willingness to address the many challenges facing the country. At the same time, they are open to support from the international community. The challenges are – as the representative was also quite right – many of the young democracy. Following a continuous conflict with a number of armed ethnic groups since its independence, it is a demanding peace process to be pursued in the future. Much remains, not least in the composition of Parliament and in human rights and economic development. The army rests over the nation's national assembly and, of course, over the capital Naypyidaw. Tackling ethnic groups, the unacceptable situation of the rowingyas and an increasing number of internal refugees are examples of challenges facing Myanmar. Support for the areas of truce and for the peace process between the authorities and the ethnic groups has been central to Norway’s commitment. It is Norwegian tradition to listen to the actors. We are in close contact with the authorities and the armed rest groups if there is a need for support. Norway established contact with the ethnic minorities in Myanmar at an early stage of the peace process. Norwegian aid for armaments has been valued. Norway contributes to the Joint Peace Fund, where we have a board of directors. In addition, we support the UN arms rest monitoring mechanism. We continue our support for the reform work in Myanmar. We have a significant and broad commitment, and we cooperate with both the government, with non-governmental organisations and with the United Nations system. The aim is to contribute to poverty reduction, democratic development and lasting peace. Norway is an active driver for development. The full embassy upgrade in 2013 provided a basis for close follow-up and ongoing dialogue with the authorities and other key actors. Myanmar is a focus country – as I mentioned – for development cooperation, and our efforts are long-term. Bilateral programmes in hydropower and the environment are already well under way, and Oil for Development is at an early stage. A similar commitment in the fisheries sector, Fish for Development, is under planning. These are areas where Myanmar wants to cooperate with us, and where we have relevant experience and expertise. A number of Norwegian organisations are engaged in Myanmar, and there is increasing interest among Norwegian companies and companies. Norway can and will continue to play a constructive role in the further democratisation process in Myanmar, in close cooperation with the authorities, civil society, international actors and the private sector. Norway can contribute positively, but Myanmar itself needs to find lasting solutions to ensure peace and development for its population. In our political talks with the Myanmar authorities, we address the challenges facing the country, including the situation in the states of Rakhine, Kachin and Shan and the increasing number of internal refugees in the country. Norway is actively involved in the annual negotiations of the UN Human Rights Council on the situation in Myanmar. This year, too, we were co-sponsors of the resolution adopted on 24 March. There is a clear expectation that Myanmar will address the problems, including discrimination and abuse of the Rohingyas in the Rakhine State. An independent international Commission appointed by the President of the Council of Human Rights shall investigate allegations of serious violations and MRI violations in Myanmar by the security forces, with a specific focus on the Rakhine State. In order to succeed in building a stable and strong democracy, Myanmar must respect international obligations in the area of human rights and humanitarian matters. Norway supports the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights to establish a permanent presence in Myanmar. Contrary to the situation just a few years ago, it is now fully possible to work in Myanmar in a normal way. A fundamental principle of our development policy is that efforts to build democracy and support civil society should go to actors present in the country in question and as effectively as possible to build a culture of influence from below. During the dictatorship, this was not possible in Myanmar. Therefore, our support for the process of democracy had to be channelled through organisations operating outside the borders of the country. The representative Elvesuen also mentioned PD Burma, where I myself was sitting on the Stortinget, where it was quite natural to work from Norway towards other countries to create international solidarity and attention around the situation inside Burma. Today, a number of civil society organisations are present in Myanmar. In order to achieve effective support for democratic development, for the benefit of the population and civil society, it is natural to turn our assistance against actors within Myanmar. This is the clear technical advice that I have also received. The democratic breakthrough has thus made it possible to provide our support for civil society in line with the principles underlying such efforts in our development policy. Norway is channelling much of the support through non-governmental organisations and the many civil society actors within the country. Several of these are Norwegian. However, the main criterion for providing support is whether it can contribute in the most effective way to a positive development in the country. An active and committed civil society is essential for democratic and sustainable development in Myanmar. We welcome all the good actors and initiatives. The purpose of Norwegian support for Myanmar is to contribute to the progress of the peace process and to stable democratic and economic development. Our support should be based on Myanmar's own needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1539	I would first like to thank you for your answer. There's no doubt that we have many of the same goals. I appreciate that an upgrade from a focus country to a partnership country – or at least a continuation of the strong focus that Norway has on Myanmar, where we have had a strong position for many years, and where we have had a great respect for the work done, especially in terms of human rights and democratic development, from the 1990s to the present day – and that we want to continue this work. The extent to which the situation in Myanmar is normalised is probably true, because, as the Council of State says, it is now fully possible to work normally in Myanmar, where one has many local actors, and that attention should be paid to the fact that it is the local actors who are now going to run the process also from the Norwegian side and with Norwegian support. Several Norwegian companies have major financial interests in Myanmar, and they have also had large investments – and a willingness to go into Myanmar. I mentioned some earlier, both Statoil, Statkraft and Telenor, which I think is right and important that we build on. What is a little difficult to deal with is actually the background to the criticism that Aung San Suu Kyi brought against Norway in the autumn of 2015. It was thought that there was too much emphasis here on just the economic interests and economic development, which is in itself positive, but too little on the support that they still need for democratic development. One thing is to think that one has a clear, democratic government, something else is the problem of the undemocratic constitution, which makes Myanmar in a very special situation, where the military secures itself against any change in the Constitution by 25 pst. of the seats of the national Parliament, together with the main departments. I therefore believe that it is still important that we have a democratic perspective, that we should take on board the fact that a needy supporter is also outside Myanmar – that we need both – and that one must have a normalisation, but must also retain the competence of organisations outside Myanmar. There's no doubt that I think it's particularly strange with the cuts in support that have come to the Burma Committee, in a situation where I think it's now a need to have a patience, just to keep this process going in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1554	As I also said in my first reply to the representative, it is a fundamental principle in our development policy that efforts to build democracy and support civil society should go to actors present in the country in question and that as effectively as possible can be involved and build a culture of influence from below. During the dictatorship, this was not possible in Myanmar. But I also pointed out in my response to the interpellant that Myanmar is facing many challenges. It's the first democratic government in 50 years, and it's still the way that the military, before you start a election, have at least 25 pst. by the representatives of the national Parliament. There are many ethnic groups that still feel that they are not taking part in the government of the country. These are minorities who feel that the Burmese majority share in repressing them. These are also minorities who feel more comfortable with Myanmar than, for example, Myanmar. Burma. Not least, the Rohingyas in the Rakhine State feel that they must also be included in this. I'm glad that even environments in Norway that have traditionally worked only with a Burmese approach have taken on board that we are now facing a new nation, Myanmar, under the leadership of Aung San Suu Kyi, who of course also has limitations in the way she can operate, because of the military. It's not so good to know how much Aung San Suu Kyi can put things at the head of the military, but I encourage Aung San Suu Kyi to be tough about respecting international human rights – not least in the Rakhine State. I don't know what was behind her reflections in 2015. It may well be that from the Norwegian side it was quite early to enter into a peace and reconciliation dialogue with the former regime, and it irritated her somewhat. That is at least something she has said to me. But I think it was right to start a dialogue – a dialogue that has now led to the first democratic government. Now, Aung San Suu Kyi has enough challenges to deal with in her own country, not least with the claims that have now been made around the Rakhine State, so she probably has less opportunity and less priority to distribute grades to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1567	Democracy is something that can be demanding, not least it takes a long time to get in place. The Myanmar issue is a topic that has been the subject of this session many times over the years. Of course, it's quite natural, given the situation that has been in this area. I want to pay tribute both to the inter-pellant, who addresses this issue, and – not least – to the government for the way in which you work to just substantiate that in the country you can participate in driving forward the democratization that must take place in Myanmar. I'm not going to go into all the different peoples and provinces, so the Foreign Minister knows so much better. I heard the post to the Council of State. There are extremely many peoples and minorities in Myanmar, and they have different challenges. The only thing I'm sure is that a country should both get out of poverty and grow, trade – and trade with other countries – is essential to achieve it. Through trade, it is not only a service or a product that is transferred so that you get money back, it is also a exchange of skills. It's an exchange of experience – you'll see how things work in other places, you get to know each other, you can influence each other and start processes. It's extremely important. We also know that Myanmar wants cooperation in several areas. The Progress Party believes it is important that we set up where we can to help in these processes, and I know that the Council of State is also concerned. But it is important that we make sure that changes and what will happen have footholds in the country in which development is to take place. We just have to admit that we might have to adjust a little bit to our expectations about the time perspective of when things come into place, because this is, as it has been shown here, the first democratically elected government of 50 years in Myanmar. That's at least a good start, what's happening. Then we'll have to follow developments carefully and contribute to what we can contribute. The most important thing is that we provide both trade, exchange of competences, exchanges of views and cooperation in a number of areas, so that we can move forward. But I don't think we're going to expect that it's going to be by Western standards, what's happening in Myanmar, and that it's happening overnight. Things take time, we just have to accept that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1582	First, I would like to say that I fully agree that it was right to use the opportunity provided by the reforms launched in 2011. I think it has turned out in retrospect that it has produced positive results, also with the financial efforts of Norwegian companies that have been in Myanmar. We see that, because it's been a positive development where there's been growth rates in Myanmar in the last few years. In 2015 it was 7 pst., in 2016 it was 8.1 pst. Political developments have also taken place since the elections, where the recognised Freedom House not characterises Myanmar as a non-free country, but as a partly free country. So there's no doubt that there's a positive development. The relationship Norway has also had to be developed by building up more and more of local actors, by making the financial contacts we have with Myanmar more and more normal. As you get an opening, you also get more of the complexity of the different ethnic groups, including the complexity of getting a peaceful development in place, and eventually you have to work to get a peace agreement. But although there is a democratic development, it is nevertheless important to be aware of the very basic undemocratic constitution, that it is military with full control of security policy, and it is difficult to see how one should move forward in order to get out of it. I therefore think it is important for Norway that you really have to have two races. One is to build on a democratization, on a openness, on having a freer press, on being able to build up a society in Myanmar. At the same time, because complexity is there, there is a need to have actors both here in Norway and elsewhere who point to the peculiarity of what is almost a veto with the control of the security policy of the military. I think it's important to get a complete picture, and that it's important for us to give our – let's say – proper support towards Myanmar. It is clear that Aung San Suu Kyi has a great responsibility, not as President, but as State Councillor, but at the same time it must also be made sure that there is no undue responsibility in what is an international dialogue, even in the light of the peace price that she has, because it is clear that there is a danger to that. Therefore, I believe it is important to continue to maintain the need for Norway to support both here and internationally for its own actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1589	I mean, the interpellant has a lot of good points in his post, and he obviously has a burning commitment to Myanmar -- an engagement that I also share. But first of all, it's a lot to enjoy. I think that Aung San Suu Kyi was under house arrest for ten years, but is today ‘State Councillor’. The president of Myanmar is from her party. But it's also the case that Aung San Suu Kyi, as a Nobel Prize winner, has a responsibility to put his foot down. Of course, it is nice to be ‘State Councillor’, but if it is so that she is forced into a policy that she cannot take responsibility for, for example. with regard to the treatment of rohingyaer in the Rakhine State, where it is very worrying what we have experienced from the behaviour of the Myanmar authorities, it is Aung San Suu Kyi who must say from: This can be accepted and this cannot be accepted. As long as you are ‘State Councillor’, you also have an important responsibility for this. That's something I want to discuss with her when, hopefully, I'm going to Myanmar for a visit in July, also to continue the commitment Norway has had to many of the ethnic minorities that need to be integrated. Myanmar is not just Burmese. Burmese may make up 60 pst. by the population. If one succeeds in ruling this country, if one succeeds in ensuring integration, if one succeeds in bringing peace, one must also reach out to other peoples than one's own. This is a great responsibility that Aung San Suu Kyi has as Burmese – to contribute to the inclusion of the other ethnic groups. It is also important that Norwegian environments working with Myanmar address this issue. As the interpellant also went into, Myanmar is still a very poor country. Very many in Myanmar do not have access to electricity. It's bad infrastructure. That's huge investment that's needed. I am pleased that Norwegian business has set up and invested, contributing to the growth. Without growth, there is no possibility of achieving the development goals. It is then clear that Norwegian business will comply with what are international principles. They shall respect human rights. They make clear demands on Norwegian business. But we know that assistance is just a small element in this. If you put investment in place and get democracy in place, there's a lot of work done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1596	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1613	This case concerns the National Audit Office’s investigation into the management of the defence sector’s properties, buildings and structures. I would first like to thank the entire Committee for its constructive cooperation in its work on this position, which the Committee unanimously supports. Property, construction and civil engineering are important inputs to support the defence's tasks and purposes and, over time, a great deal of property has been established to support the defence needs. For natural reasons, there is a wide spread in age of the property stock of the Defence, and a not insignificant part of this can today be characterised as cultural historical works of national value. These properties are also included in the portfolio to be properly maintained and managed, although the vast majority of this type of property has a minimal interest in the Defence in supporting the defence needs. As mentioned above, a lot of property is established over time for the purpose of the defence and, in 2015, a property stock of 4,1 million m 2, consisting of 12,407 buildings and structures scattered throughout the country. Total value is estimated at approximately 39 billion. kr. Now it will be difficult to estimate the value of this large property portfolio, as it will depend partly on the market situation and partly on the availability of the property stock. But in any case, the property stock represents very large values. The main findings of the National Audit Office are summarised in five points: The condition of the property stock is deteriorating and the maintenance allowance is increasing. The rent does not cover the costs of storing the property. Defence structures have weak control and control over the execution of the maintenance work. Control signals are missing from the Ministry on the prioritisation of maintenance of different types of properties, buildings and installations. As regards the increase in maintenance delays, the Committee took note of the opinion of the Council of State that a precautionary approach should be taken to draw the bastant conclusions from the state records and analyses of Defence Buildings, as the proportion of property registered has increased and may be involved in changing the percentage of maintenance delays. The Committee has also noted that the Riksrevision maintains that there has been a negative trend over the period 2009-2015 and that the costs of improvement will be high. The National Audit Office is particularly active in fighting and defence facilities, including hangars, ammunition warehouses, manned mountain facilities and command stations such as areas in poor condition and which have been exacerbated in recent years. In this context, the Committee refers to the Council of State's explanation that, after the end of the Cold War, parts of this property were downgraded and assessed for sale and were therefore not prioritised with continuous maintenance in the same way as other EBA. Furthermore, the Council of State indicates that a change in the security policy situation has led to the re-establishment of such areas by the Defence Office. According to the Council of State, this will have the consequence that it will have to identify the priority of EBA in the coming years. The Committee for its part considers that it would be natural for such a priority to be made in the light of the current threat picture. The size has assumed that the property stock of the Defence is managed in such a way that the values are preserved. As indicated, there is a significant lag in maintenance, and of the estimated maintenance needs for the rental portfolio in total, the maintenance kit run amounts to 1.9 billion. kr alone. However, this delay must be seen here in relation to the size of the property portfolio. The Committee notes that Defence Buildings have established a system for recording and analysing the condition of the properties, but that the documentation contained in many of the state analyses following the assessment by the National Audit Office is not complementary enough as a basis for prioritisation and planning of maintenance measures. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, weak management and control of maintenance projects may lead to projects taking longer and becoming more expensive than planned. Much unforeseen maintenance will go beyond scheduled maintenance, which in the long term will result in a deterioration in the property stock. The Committee shares the concerns of the National Audit Office at this point. The Committee points out that the governance dialogue between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence has not given any indication of the types of property, construction and facilities to be prioritised and on which a lower standard can be accepted for the purpose of construction. The Committee further points to the agreement of the Council of State that the purpose of the construction is to influence the prioritisation of maintenance resources and is satisfied that the Ministry, together with Defence Building and Defence, is to further develop the method of prioritisation of maintenance. Since 2002, the property management in the Defence has been organised according to a management model with the Ministry of Defence as its owner, Defence Building as its manager and the Defence as its user and customer. In its report, the National Audit Board states that the rent paid by the Defence does not cover the costs of a value conservation management of the property stock, including a capital element to be used for the renewal of the property stock. This is also supported by an evaluation of the management model carried out at the request of the Stortinget in 2013. In order to meet the annual need, it was therefore proposed to grant earmarked investment funds above the defence budget as compensation for the lack of rent. The Committee notes that neither the rent model nor the capital element has functioned as intended and that the Ministry will initiate an evaluation of the entire scheme by the end of 2019 at the latest. The National Audit Board is critical of the timing of the evaluation, to which the Committee agrees, and the Committee calls for the work on the evaluation to be carried out and for a rapid sample to be set up to present its evaluation so that any necessary changes can be incorporated into the State budget for 2018. I assume that the Council of State will comment on the relationship between the rent model and the capital element that is specifically addressed in the Committee's position. In the light of its study, the National Audit Office has made recommendations on four points and the Committee endorses the recommendations of the National Audit Office to the Ministry of Defence. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1665	Then we have a report on the defense again, this time on the management of property, construction and installations. I would like to thank the case spokesman, and I would also like to pay tribute to his post at the review here. When the Riksrevision presented this matter, we could read in the press release: ‘The state of the defence sector’s properties and facilities has become increasingly poor. In 2015, registered maintenance needs increased to nearly SEK 4.5 billion. There is a need for immediate action of close to 2 billion for the maintenance kit run, an increase of 38 per cent in two years. – The situation is worst for combat and defence facilities, says National Auditor Per-Kristian Foss.” It's serious. It appears that maintenance is not satisfactory. Then we have to ask ourselves, is it too little money? Or is it possible that there is bad planning or bad organization? The National Audit Office finds that the state of the property is getting worse, and the maintenance run is increasing. They find that rents do not cover the costs of maintaining the property stock, that defence buildings have weak control and control over the maintenance work, and that there is a lack of management signal from the ministry on the priority of maintaining different ownership, construction and installations. State analyses carried out by Defence Building show that the average state of ownership, construction and installations rented out to the Defence have had a negative development. A measure of it on a scale from 0 to 3, where 0 is good, i.e. no deviation, and 3 is critical, with large or severe deviations. In the period 2009-2015, the condition rate has deteriorated from 1.28 to 1.32. Although there was a weak improvement in 2013–2014, it meant a reduction in the average state of well over 3 pst. With such a large building mass, even a seemingly small degree of deterioration in the average state of the building will be a major cost of improvement. The Ministry of Defence's requirement for an average state of 1.30 has not been met in the last four years. The Riksrevision also notes that the Council of State agrees that there is a significant maintenance need in the defence sector's ownership mass, but does not fully share the conclusion that the state is deteriorating and that the maintenance life has increased in recent years, while the Riksrevision, on the other hand, ‘will maintain that there has been a negative development in the measured condition over the period 2009-2015, and given the size of the property stock, even a slight deterioration in the average state level would constitute significant costs for improvement.’» The Parliamentary Auditor's report states that they are: ‘concises that the estimated costs of the large and severe deviations as a proportion of the total maintenance need were reduced in the period 2009-2013. [[...]] However, from 2013 to 2015, these deviations have increased sharply in proportion. In addition, significant deviations in which, according to Defence Building, the consequences are ‘large or serious’ have increased significantly during this period. As a result, the unacceptable deviations, defined as the maintenance seat suspension, have increased from 1,40 billion. SEK 1,93 billion in 2013 krones in 2015. It corresponds to an increase of 38 per cent.’» The National Audit Board considers that there is a ‘base to say that the condition has deteriorated and that the maintenance seat run has increased’. The National Auditor's Office also writes that a person has: «remarked the opinion of the Council of State that the consequences of the new security policy situation will have to characterise the priorities of funds for property, construction and civil engineering in the coming years». The Committee notes that we are a few. Defence buildings also manage a significant part of state cultural memories. In Follo we have Oscarsborg, a cultural memory, a historic place, an experience for people. Here you can go to the concert, you can listen to the opera, or you can walk around and walk and get a review of the story of what happened on April 9th. Being able to take care of such pearls, that several generations can take part in this, I think I'm very important. It is then good to know that the state of the protective property stock, managed by the National Armaments Agency of Defence Building, has been better from 2012 to 2015. It's positive. However, the Riksrevision writes that ‘the state of the valuable property stock managed by Defence Building has had a strongly negative development during the same period’. I don't think that's good, and it's important that the department takes this seriously. In the comments, the Committee considers that the Storting has indicated that the property stock is managed in such a way that the values are preserved and that the management of the defence sector’s operational property, construction and facilities are specifically designed to support the defence’s core business. The investigation by the National Audit Office suggests that the state of the property stock in the defence has worsened in recent years and that the maintenance run as a result has increased. The Court of Auditors has sent some recommendations to the Ministry, and the Committee supports the Riksrevision's recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1709	In recent years, defence buildings themselves have reported a negative trend in the condition of property, construction and civil engineering. The Riksrevision now confirms that the maintenance needs of the property stock are increasing. The total maintenance need for the rental portfolio is estimated at approximately 4.5 billion. kr, of which the maintenance seat suspension alone is intended for approx. So, let's say $1.9 billion. kr. It's a useful report we've got on the table, and it's drawing a relatively clear picture. We have some challenges related to the management and development of the building stock in the defence sector. At the same time, there is a broad consensus as to what is the starting point of the study, and the findings are not surprising nor very controversial. Also, the department, I understand, shares the recognition that there is a not insignificant maintenance need in the property of the sector. However, we note that the Ministry does not share the Riksrevision’s conclusion that the condition has deteriorated or that the maintenance run has increased in recent years. Nevertheless – I note that there is an overall position, a unanimous committee in the comments, and there is agreement on the need for improvements. I refer to the conclusions of the National Audit Office also in terms of development, and I share that understanding and the arguments put forward in the report. The management model itself is not now subject to evaluation in this case. There has been a work done here a short time ago. This is how the Ministry of Defence owns buildings and properties, the Defence Building manages, and the Defence is a user and a customer. However, it might be interesting to hear the Council of State's assessment now in the light of the Riksrevision report. I do not call for the creation of any new or more agencies or radical changes in how this is going to work, but I would like to hear if the Council of State now sees some new elements that need to be considered in terms of the management of these properties. The administrative model with the Ministry of Defence as owner, Defence Buildings as manager and Defence as customer assumes that the costs will be covered by the rent. In the establishment of Defence Buildings, Stortinget decided to cover the real costs of management, maintenance, operation and development. Furthermore, the rental shall cover the consumption of fixed capital by dimensioning it after annual depreciation. The rent paid by the Defence Agency to Defence Building consists of estimated costs for management, maintenance, operation and development. In addition, the rent includes a capital element, which was intended to be used for the renewal of the property stock. The National Audit Office points out that the rent paid by the Defence does not cover the costs of value conservation management of the property stock, including the capital element to be used for renewal. The Ministry states that the scheme will be evaluated by the end of 2019, but the Christian People's Party shares the Committee's view that this evaluation should be accelerated. Any amendments should already be included in the 2018 budget. There may be cases where construction that was intended to be disposed of is, or has been, put into service for various reasons. These may, of course, have a large backlog on the maintenance side, but it is important that these buildings are included and that necessary work is done on upgrading and maintenance, so that they are in a satisfactory condition according to their needs. The rapporteur has now had a good review of the matter, and I agree with that presentation on the basis of the consensus in the committee and in the comments on the matter. We believe in the Christian People's Party that the Riksrevision has pointed to central moments here. I would just like to end by stressing that, of course, the Ministry of Defence has a responsibility to ensure that Defence Buildings streamline operations in line with the savings requirements of the other sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1740	I agree with the rapporteur's good introduction, but I would like to add some comments to it. Many people believe that the general government is a poor property manager. They have once again confirmed their assessment. Maintenance is too low a priority and – I would say – in any case, apparently, which model a person is trying to apply, and which should correct it. It seems to be a culture – in this case within the Defense – which is such that there is no order in the matter. It's a culture that needs to change. I want to say it so strongly that that's exactly what's the challenge. We can try different models to do that, but that doesn't seem to be what results in practice. If the committee is unanimous, I would ask the Minister of Defence to note that we have carried out the evaluation by one year, and it shows on the Committee's part precisely the seriousness of the fact that there is a need for a different behaviour here. It has not been taken up as a separate proposal, and I hope that the Council of State understands the Committee's comments so that it is the will of the Storting. In some cases we have had problems with the fact that if it is not adopted as a decision, unanimous committee comments are not taken with the necessary seriousness. That's why I want to underline this. I have to say, as we write in the setting, that ‘the management dialogue between the Ministry of Defence and Defence has not given any indication of the types of property, construction and installations to be prioritised’. ‘Control Dialog’ is a great word. I don't know what it means in practice, but in my language, it means that there is a message here about how to prioritize – from the owner, who is the Council of State, down to the executive, who is Defence Building. Then it is very strong to experience – and we write it very clearly – that there are no ‘signals about the types of property, construction and installations to be prioritised’. I hope that the Council of State in the subsequent article will be able to answer why one has not given such a priority, because it must be absolutely crucial to the priority of Defence Building for its scarce resources. I just want to say that seas if it's a unanimous attitude, it's a serious matter on the part of the committee. We are sorry that such – I would call it unforgivable – weaknesses that have been pointed out here by the National Audit Office continue within the public sector, in this case in Defence Building. I look forward with interest to the response of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1753	Property, construction and installations, for the sake of order, hereinafter abbreviated as EBA, are a crucial input to the task of the defence sector. The National Audit Board’s administrative audit of the defence sector EBA provides a thorough assessment of the EBA area in the sector. The defence sector shall have sound management and resources shall be managed in a sound manner and at the same time be used effectively and in line with the applicable legislation and the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. One of the Riksrevision's findings is that the condition of the property stock is deteriorating and that the maintenance allowance has increased in the period 2009-2015. As it appears from the Committee's position, I would be somewhat more careful to draw such a bastful conclusion as the Riksrevision that the situation has worsened in the revised period. I believe that the existing records indicate that the estimated maintenance needs of the defence sector EBA have been relatively stable over the period 2009-2015. As the Committee itself points out, state registration has increased relatively considerably, from 73 pst. to 87 pst. This may help to explain some of the changes, but it does not mean that the condition has necessarily deteriorated or that the lag has increased. Nevertheless, this does not mean that the maintenance level is fully satisfactory for all EBA categories, for which several have been involved, there is a not insignificant maintenance requirement in the property mass of the sector. It's a problem that's been going on for very many years. The state records of defence-building and associated analyses are an important basis for controlling the overall status and development of the property stock of the sector. That work provides a basis for the implementation of maintenance by Defence Building. With regard to the error margins and discretionary considerations that naturally lie in the state records, and the time span within which it is revised, I do not believe that it can be concluded with full certainty that the maintenance needs at the portfolio level have increased until 2015. This can be illustrated by the fact that the development of maintenance needs per square metre depends very much on the year used as a starting point. Starting in 2009, the result will be a smaller increase by 2015. Had the starting point been 2010, 2011 or 2012, the development shows a reduction in maintenance demand per square metre up to 2015. When assessing the evolution of the property stock status, it is also important to look at the severity. The review by the National Audit Office shows that the share of serious non-conformities in the total maintenance needs for the period 2009-2015 has been reduced. I am pleased that the Riksrevision confirms that there has been a reduction in the maintenance requirement for dwellings in 2013-2015. It is in line with the leaders of the Stortinge when dealing with the previous long-term plan. Then the emphasis was placed on: «The premises and quarters of the defence shall be temporal, of general good quality and in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.» I think we still need to focus on improving the state of the housing stock in the sector. However, it needs to be balanced against other important and urgent needs, and I am thinking in particular of operational EBA. The National Audit Office points out that during the period 2013-2015, there is a dispute and defence facility with the worst status of the EBA categories. Here I would like to recall the significant change we have had in the security policy situation in recent years. It has, among other things, led to the defence being reintroduced by EBA, which was intended to be disposed of. In the autumn of 2014, the defence identified more than 75 000 m2 unarranged but not disposed of EBA that was re-assessed for re-arrangement. After the evaluations were completed, 60000 m2 have now been returned to the EBA portfolio of defence. This property has not been prioritised in respect of maintenance, which has been dealt with by several parties in their contributions, because the property stock was to be disposed of. So it's the one that has the worst condition, and so it has completely natural explanations. At the same time, it is important to stress that the consequences of this new security policy situation will have to characterise the priorities of EBA funds in the coming years. There is also something to which the Committee subscribes. In the implementation letter for the long-term planning period 2017-2020, Defence Building, together with the Defence Agency, is entrusted with the task of identifying the properties, buildings and installations that are critical for the defence of its mission. The list will include buildings and installations having different objectives and geographical distribution. It will provide an important basis precisely for the priority of the resource effort that I believe it is important to do, and that meets the point both the Riksrevision and the Committee have pointed out in relation to priorities. The National Audit Service points out that rents do not cover the costs of storing the property. We are now in a period of investment for historical amounts in EBA in the sector, including: in the case of a new fighter base. We are also facing new changes in the base structure. These changes could eventually have consequences for the size of the cost-covering rent payable by the Defence and the other agencies to cover the current expenditure on the management, operation and maintenance of the regulatory development of the property stock in the future. Regardless of the Riksrevision's findings, the Ministry of Defence has planned an evaluation of the rent scheme initially by the end of 2019. That work, and in particular the basic work, has already begun, but it will have to take some time because it is based on good facts, and both the Defence Building and the Defence Research Institute are in the process of providing parts of the basis on which the evaluation is based. I want to be in the budget for 2018, Prop. 1 S, inform about the progress of the evaluation and aim to provide the evaluation in the context of the investment proposal for the Spring 2018 Stortinget. It will be in good time before what was originally planned, and there it is natural to take it because the investment proposition contains both decisions and information on property, construction and material investments in the sector. The National Audit Office points out that weak management and control of the maintenance projects may result in projects taking longer and becoming more expensive than planned and that some scheduled maintenance is not implemented. The findings of the National Audit Office are important, and I will follow up these findings through the governance dialogue with Defence Buildings. Several measures are already in place from the current year. Among other things, the requirement that the means of maintenance be used as much as possible for scheduled maintenance is reinforced in the 2017 letter of implementation. The Ministry of Defence has here established its own governance parameter for Defence Building in 2017 to ensure that at least 80 pst. of the totally available means of maintenance are used for planned measures, i.e. at a maximum of 20 pst. shall proceed to unforeseen maintenance. The management parameter also indicates that the share of rental income going to scheduled maintenance should be increased during the long-term planning period we have just started. Although I do not fully share the Riksrevision's conclusion that there has been a clear negative development in the property stock during the revised period, I still believe the existing maintenance service is a significant challenge that cannot be ignored. In my view, the efforts to maintain the property mass of the sector need to be strengthened in the future. It is important both to maintain and maintain the values of society and also to provide the best possible conditions for the defence in order to solve its mission. My first priority is to make sure that we get the most out of the resource deployed. I have therefore started several improvement projects in Defence Buildings to ensure this. There are improvements to ensure more cost-effective investments, more efficient operational processes and not least more appropriate and effective internal organisation in Defence Buildings. As a consequence, the Director of Defence Building is now implementing a new organisational structure there, among other things. the number of directors of the senior executive level of the establishment shall be reduced from 12 to 6. In addition, we also introduce increased use of so-called variant restriction and standardisation, inter alia. in construction processes. The JRC is conducting a study analysing the causes of the cost development of EBA, both on investment and on operations. It is a comprehensive material of historical data used to analyse cost drivers and identify standardisation opportunities. The National Audit Office's report is thorough and comprehensive and, in my view, several of the findings of the report are very useful in the ministry's work on further improvements in the EBA area. I will follow up on the implementation of the necessary priorities and improvements so that the EBA of the sector can contribute as much as possible to the operational capability. So I would like to make a few comments about the renting of houses and capital elements and, to some extent, the management model. I can start with the management model. It is quite correct, as many people have been concerned here, that it has been subject to multiple assessments, at the latest in connection with the previous long-term plan, Prop. 73 S for 2011-2012. It is established that the management model based on cost-covering rentals mainly works well. However, there is also a need to assess different improvements. Thus, in October 2012, the Ministry set up a working group to assess improvements in the management model. In particular, two main objectives were set. One was to identify concrete improvement points for the management model in order to really encourage more cost-effective use and development of the EBA sector. The second was to identify concrete improvement points in the exercise of the management model and coordination between actors. The working group issued its report in May 2013 and contains a number of proposals for improvements in the use of the model in several key areas. This really applies to everything from both freedom of choice and real negotiations, the calculation of rents, investments, interaction between actors, real estate and preparedness. Among the recommendations of the report that have been finalised in major changes, this may include: It mentions the deployment of clean-up services, the introduction of component replacements over the investment chapter, the transfer of management of the housing and quarters of the sector to Defence Building, the establishment of a model to calculate rents and simplified procedures based on the normal procedure for the management of small investment projects, i.e. mandated projects. It'll make this landscape a little smoother. So some words about the capital element. It is important to stress that the capital element is a model visibility of depreciation costs. This means that it has no real budgetary significance. So increasing one place leads to going down another place in the budget and vice versa. The liquidation of the capital element is simply because it has not had the desired effect that was hoped for, and it is a relatively bureaucratic system that takes a lot of labour both in the Defence, Defence Building and in all actors inside the image. Our assessment is that it is better to remove the regime for the visibility of a capital element, but it is still possible to make model depreciation of EBA investments visible, because that is what this is especially about. The fact that we're getting simpler management, I think, is a good contribution to dealing with a large portfolio of property, which, of course, will at any time have many challenges in itself, where the level of maintenance and maintenance will inevitably always be present in some form. In conclusion, I would like to stress what I had to say quite early in my speech, and to which the Committee has also agreed, that the major changes we have seen in the security policy situation have made it necessary for us to take back the property stock that was intended to be outsourced and sold, and which has not been maintained for many, many years, and which we now need to prioritise maintenance so that it could have the desired effect operationally seen. That's important, because it's a situation that you wouldn't expect to happen. When we put a stop order in 2014 for further disposal of what was planned to be disposed of, it was precisely to assess whether we now have a need after the new situation. So the defense has made an assessment that there is a need for approx. 60000 m2 of the 75000 m2 planned to be disposed of. It goes without saying that there may be some considerable maintenance needs, because there are many buildings and installations in the portfolio that have not been maintained for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1798	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1814	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be a replacement of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1823	I would first of all like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. When children become seriously ill and need supervision and care, their parents’ presence is the most important thing for their children. Therefore, we need to make good arrangements to enable parents to be away from work in order to care for their sick children. Nursing allowance is a social benefit in the social security system that compensates working parents for the loss of labour income when they care for their sick children. Today, care is given under two paragraphs of the Swedish Social Security Act: § 9-10, which applies to children up to 12 years of age in connection with the treatment of sick children in a health institution, and § 9-11, for children up to 18 years of age in the care of life-threatening sick and very seriously ill children in a hospital or at home. The requirement is that the child needs continuous supervision and care. In principle, care should not be given in the case of permanent illness and in the case of long-term care. In that case, municipal health services shall take over and provide the necessary services. The derogation is in the case of a permanent, very severe disease at an unstable stage or when the child is experiencing a serious deterioration of the disease or is dying. Such a care scheme is being practised today, it is highly discretionary, and it is unpredictable for families with seriously ill children. There has been great dissatisfaction with the care scheme for a long time. The regulatory framework is complex, discretionary and rigorous, with many difficult assessments. What is life-threatening or other very serious disease? What is permanent disease? What is the unstable phase? It is challenging for Nav to take legal action, and it often leads to several unfair grey zone cases. In the proposal for a new care scheme, the two paragraphs of the People's Rights Act are combined into one common provision in Sections 9-10, and the rule applies to all children up to 18 years of age. The establishment of a common provision for care allowance provides for a more tidy regulatory framework, greater predictability and easier treatment in Nav. Care allowance shall continue to be a substitute for lost labour income and shall require the prior professional activity of the parents. The condition for granting care allowance is not linked to a diagnosis. The need for continuous supervision and care of the child is crucial. Several cases of illness and long-term ill children are included in the care scheme, leading to a doubling of the number that will be entitled to care allowance. The Committee considers that it is worth trying out a new model with a daily allowance withdrawal account, which can provide good flexibility in the extent of the withdrawal and distribution between parents. Parents may charge 1 300 days of care from an agenda until the child is 18 years of age. Both parents can withdraw care allowance at the same time as necessary, based on the day-to-day account attached to the child. Parents can choose to take out 100 pst. or graduated and combined with work. Care money can be scaled down to 20 pst., towards 50 pst. today. In case of graduation, the scheme may be extended in time, yes, up to 10 years. The first 260 days it will be 100 pst. revenue compensation up to 6G and the remaining 1,040 days there will be 66 pst. – is equal to the scheme in force in the case of sick leave with a transition to redundancy benefits. Parents are given the opportunity to combine care allowance with work and keep in touch with the labour market. It's important. In the hearing, all were positive for the extension of the scheme and for the simplification of the legislation. Most people also thought that 1 300 days, i.e. five years of continuous withdrawal of care allowance, initially a rough scheme. Families with long-term ill children in need of care and supervision are given better time to plan with the municipality what municipal care services need to be provided when the state benefits cease to exist. Here's some challenges, because many told us that just these transitions are difficult. But that's the way it is. It is the municipal level to be taken over when the State benefits cease to exist. The Committee has listened to and taken seriously all the feedback that has indicated that exemptions from the legislation should be provided for in exceptional cases, once the agenda has been used up and the child becomes seriously ill again. Examples of cancers and cancer treatments that are often long-term and, after a period of possible relapse or a new life-threatening injury or disease were shown. All lots were engaged in opening up exemptions in very special cases. The majority of the Committee proposes exemptions when the day-to-day account has been used up and the child becomes in need of continuous supervision and care because of a life-threatening disease or injury. Care allowance will then be provided with 66 pst. on the basis of the calculation and there will be no time limit. On behalf of the Committee, I am pleased that we can today adopt an improved and expanded system of care that is predictable and will facilitate the everyday life of many families in a difficult life situation with seriously ill children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1848	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his clear work on the matter. Being a parent of a sick child is demanding. Parents are to take care of a small person who needs care. Many have more children who also need their parents. As a big society, we have an obligation to stand up for those who are in such a situation. Good health, care and relief services are essential for both the sick child, parents and siblings to be safe in the situation. For parents, it is difficult to combine professional activity with the care of sick children. It requires great flexibility both by parents and by employers. The proposal in the proposal makes the scheme more flexible by introducing a day-to-day system. It shall apply to parents or other caregivers. It will enable more people to care for sick children while at the same time having a link with the labour market. The working party supports the main steps of the government's proposal to create a daily account and at the same time set a ceiling of 1 300 days, but we do not support the proposal that there is no possibility of more than one allowance period. Children who are very ill when they are young may suffer from tendon damage that may result in new diseases coming after several years. If the condition is serious, we believe that it should be able to trigger the right to a new period of care. The need for a care period may be triggered by events other than sensitised events. Accidents and other diseases may also affect children who have had a period of care before. The working party therefore believes that it must be possible for a child to trigger several periods of care. The same applies to the 18-year age limit for people with developmental disabilities. Many people with developmental disabilities must have known caregivers around them, for example. hospitalisations. Many are still at home without any other safe carers who can attend. We therefore believe that this group must be exempted from age regulations. The proposal to extend the scheme to children with a permanent illness, while at the same time taking into account the same entry conditions, the degree of compensation and the possibility of graduation as in the sick pay scheme, is, in the view of the Workers' Party, acceptable and will receive our support by supporting the vote of the majority subsidiaryly. Many relatives make a great effort for people who need care and care. Without the help of relatives, the health care system would collapse. Therefore, there is a close link between government and municipal schemes and social benefits and the work done by the relatives. Good follow-up of the relatives has been fully weighted since St.meld. No 25 for 2005–2006 Mestring, opportunities and meaning, and later Report. St. 29 for 2012–2013 Tomorrow’s care. The proposition we have for treatment today is also closely related to Prp. 49 L for 2016–2017, which was treated before Easter and which deals with enhanced related aid. In the option of Prp. 49 L underlines the importance of the possibility for persons with extensive family responsibilities to combine this with their own professional and private lives. This means that the relatives must meet with coordinated action and receive the necessary training, as was the case in particular. in Meld.St. 29 Tomorrow's care. Local authorities have an obligation to provide training and guidance, and it must apply to all those who need it, not only those with the most serious care tasks, as reported in the Report. St. 29. The relatives need such offers to be in demanding care tasks, and I encourage the government to pay more attention to it with related training and family support, so that they have the opportunity to provide the care they need. I would like to address the Workers' Party's proposal to allow for more periods of care, and that the age limit of 18 years should not apply to people with a developmental disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1867	The representative of Rigmor Aasrud has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1872	I want to start by thanking the case rapporteur for a thorough and good job. I would also like to thank the Committee, and I am pleased that there is such a broad consensus on the main lines here today. For many years, the Progress Party has been working for a better care scheme. The scheme should ensure that people who have a job, an income when the worst thing that can happen in life, that your child gets sick, occurs. These are people who, for many years with the old system, have struggled with the double burden of having a sick child and keeping the family economy on the right track. There is already a scheme, which several have been in, but it is a scheme that many have been dissatisfied with, and that has many weaknesses. We have still heard from single families, from organisations for sick children and through the media that there are many who fall outside. Many have been in a grey zone, without rights. This is due to a complex and unnecessary bureaucratic code. Families in need of care are families undergoing a very difficult time. The reason for the need for care is that the child is ill. All parents who experience their own children's disease think that some of the worst things have happened to them. I can't strongly stress how much compassion and empathy I have for these families, and this is something I'm quite sure I share with everyone in this room today. But today we are going to adopt a much better system. As I started with, this is something the Progress Party has been working for a long time. Together with our partners in the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, we are finally getting this done. I am pleased that the legislation is getting simpler and less stringent. This allows care to be given in the event of a permanent illness. The determining factor shall be that children need continuous supervision and care. I really think this is relatively obvious, as it is quite obvious that parents must be allowed to be home with children who are so sick. The new scheme will include a day-to-day model that provides good flexibility for parents, and it will also be able to be scaled down to 20 pst. This also makes it much easier to combine parents' work with care tasks and power and authority to decide over your own life. What's best for yourself and your family, is now added to the individual parents. It is also a good idea that today we take on the sick pay scheme. This is done in terms of both entry conditions, level of compensation and graduation. Equal arrangements mean less bureaucracy and greater predictability for the individual family depending on the scheme. In the Storting's open hearing on the matter, many considered that the scheme must also take account of exceptional rules in exceptional cases. This is a good idea, which fortunately everyone supports wholeheartedly. The new scheme will provide far more parents with the opportunity to care for their sick children. This costs a lot of money, but it's money that the Advance Party and the government and our cooperation parties have agreed to give priority, even if it will cost a lot of money in the years to come. But the reason is simple: the children are the most important thing we have, and the sick children deserve the best we can give them and their families.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1895	Before Easter, Stortinget dealt with changes in the care pay system. Today we are dealing with another important issue of family support, namely the care allowance. There are different departments that have made proposals, and there are different committees that deal with them, because there are different schemes, different levels of administration, different systems. In that case, system justification for changes and system justification will be speeded up in order not to see the arrangements in the context. The Christian People's Party has long called for changes to these arrangements. Among other things, we have proposed that care allowances, social assistance and social security pay be combined into one state scheme. We believe that it is necessary to look at the care pay system in the context of care and assistance to ensure financial security and predictability for parents with heavy care and care tasks. Our point is that we have to make it easier for families to deal with the arrangements and the legislation and ensure that all those who are related and doing this care work can get paid for it, regardless of which municipality they live in, and without feeling that they still have to fight for it. We want to see the arrangements from the point of view of the individual relative, the individual sick person's perspective, the individual family's perspective. Yes, this is, of course, largely about the budget and the economy, but as pointed out in the Health Committee’s position on pay for care: ‘The Committee points out that, from a socio-economic perspective, it will be profitable to provide good facilities for those with demanding care tasks. There is a lot of evidence, for example, that many relatives who are denied a care allowance are diagnosed and even disabled. The Committee is also aware that there is a greater likelihood of family conflicts and that children are subjected to care failures in families that have been severely tested for heavy care tasks, which is a loss to both society, relatives and the nursing child. The Committee believes that society has everything to do to facilitate good financial arrangements for the few families who will need more extensive care arrangements. The Committee points out that the cost of care expenditure represents a smaller sum, including the extension of the scheme, compared with the annual cost of health care and with alternative expenditure such as institutional space.’;» The Christian People's Party believes it is good that the government's proposal makes the legislation simpler and less stringent, and that care money can be given in the event of a serious illness. It is good that care money can be reduced to 20 pst. - versus 50 pst. today. The Christian People's Party is for what gives families with heavy care more flexibility and the possibility of variation in order to find their own good solutions for combining work outside the home and care money at home. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the majority makes changes and introduces derogations from the legislation in very specific cases. However, the Christian People's Party does not support all the proposals for changes. We see that parents with the most seriously ill children may need a longer period of care beyond five years, and we believe that there should be room for care if children with developmental disabilities need follow-up of parents in case of illness even after 18 years of age. The strain it can be for a family to live with dramatically reduced income over several years while having a seriously ill child makes it difficult to defend a fall to 66 pst. compensation of wages and salaries as early as one year. Does this create the security families with seriously ill children need? A dependant who is dependent on care allowance does not have the opportunity to increase his income. In most serious cases of disease, it is more valuable for parents to care for the child than for the development of an institutional device to safeguard the child’s life. The Christian People's Party believes, as SV also writes in the setting, that health-related expenditure on children should be fully covered. The child’s needs should trigger care allowances and it should be possible, irrespective of the other criteria, to make up a new period of care such as: a relapse of a child’s disease or a new disease case is covered by the scheme. The need for compensation for the loss of income is equally relevant even if it occurs repeatedly in the family's life. The care and care of the child must be provided and the length of the care period determined. Therefore, there must also be room for discretion in the management of the plan. That is why Christian People's Party supports the proposal for a new § 9-12.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1914	The centre part is strongly dependent on the care scheme. It gives the best quality, and it's a very good social economy. I want to say – it’s not that often I say it – that it’s an important priority of the government, and they’ll have a reward for that. It is a good system, which thus replaces the loss of labour income in the event of temporary absence from work because of the care of sick kids. It's paid by the state. We now have an extension, so that the scheme includes several cases of disease. There are no longer life-threatening or very seriously ill children to come under the scheme. It is a disease of a certain severity that needs continuous supervision and care by parents, plus permanent illness in children. There is also an important point – which no one has made so far – that there is a requirement for a stay in Norway. It is a prerequisite for entitlement to care allowance, with the exception of up to eight weeks a year abroad. So it includes several cases, it includes children until they are 18, it gives less use of discretion, and it introduces a number of days of care, a daily account, of 1,300 days, corresponding to five years – the first 260 days with 100 pst. income coverage. The centre lot has a note relating to this maximum limit of 1 300 days per child without exception. We say it's one for snow and for strict general rule. The government justifies the rule with regard to a simplified care scheme and the removal of demanding conditions of judgement. We believe that there may be situations in which a child becomes seriously ill several times in life before the age of 18, and that in such cases an exception to a new entitlement to care allowance will be necessary. It would be seen as an unreasonable rule of law that the person who would initially have filled the terms of care should not be entitled to the benefit in the light of a statutory time limit. Therefore, the Centre Party considers that a derogation from the general rule on the time limit of 1 300 days must be considered. We believe that a less emphasis should be placed on the Ministry's argument about locking effects and that several periods of care will lead to parents staying out of work on a lasting basis. We are joining the hearing bodies that have raised this concern, including: in the consultation note from the National Expertise Service for Rare Diagnosis, saying that it must be the health status of the child and not the relationship of parents or – as a consequence – the lack of association with the labour market that is essential. We're going in for a change at that point. Several hearing bodies express the need to clarify the coordination between the State care scheme and the municipal schemes for children’s disease. In particular, this applies to municipal social security benefits and to municipal institutional care. Care pay is provided according to a judgement of the municipality in terms of both the allocation and the scope. The Centre Party considers that care allowance for the dependants of the seriously ill child is the most predictable benefit for this group, while care allowance is valid for those who assist seriously ill children but do not have income-bearing work and are therefore not entitled to care allowance. The municipal system needs to be given greater care, because this will be a situation in which those who do not have income-intensive work can get involved, and they can easily get out worse if the municipalities do not follow up and assist them with the municipal care pay system. Finally, I would like to address the proposal of the Centre Party, where we say that if less than five years have elapsed, the maintenance period can be extended by another four years, and if five years have elapsed, a new money-care period can be provided. Subsidy, we support the Workers' Party's proposal and, finally, the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1927	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1932	In our work in the Labour and Social Committee, we face many fates and have the ability to meet many families and individuals who depend on the arrangements for which we are responsible. For my part, I have to say that some of the heaviest, but also most impressive, meetings are just with parents who have children who get life-threatening and serious diseases, and who have to let go of everything they have in their hands and set their lives in a completely different way. It's a situation that fortunately few of us experience, but for those who experience him, it's important that one has good schemes that can back up under good care. This is a matter which the four cooperation parties have been dealing with for a long time. For example, in the previous ageing period, See the proposal for a representative, Document 8:55 S, for 2010–2011, where the four parties propose to strengthen the pension scheme. Then we had this Kaasa selection, which unfortunately was not followed up by the previous government. But I am pleased that the Storting can today take decisions on a significant strengthening of the care allowance scheme, with an estimated 8 000 to 9 000 more coming under the scheme, which is above a double, and with an estimated annual budgetary impact of more than 560 million. With the government's proposal, probably a little more with the reinforcement that has been made further in the Stortinget. It's a priority that I'm proud of, and I expect that when we're going to go to the fall and the red-greens are going to travel around the country and the beach and say that the bourgeois parties prioritize tax relief to the richest, they will also add: besides, they give priority to helping parents with children with life-threatening diseases. In any case, Mr Lundtigen's contribution was a good start to it. At the same time, it would be a long round of hearings first, when the government sent out its proposals, and a good round of hearings here on the Stortinget when the proposal finally came here. And even though all the hearing agencies expressed joy over an extension and a simplification, there is no doubt that one also created some new problems in trying to simplify and remove the discretionary criteria. On the left hand side, we've taken it seriously, because the course of disease is different, and it's clear that having a time account that was as rigid as what was suggested, even though it has some arguments for itself, would lead to some getting into a very difficult situation. That's why we appreciate the audio recordings that came here at the house, and have managed to get multiples and become a few about an exception rule. So, of course, the problem of having an exception rule is that then we're back to this with discretion, and a little bit of the goal of the conversion was to avoid too much discretionary criteria. But the majority still see a need for an exception rule in some cases and hope that he will be able to practice. He will then target those children who, because of a life-threatening illness or injury, need continuous supervision and care. He is not a timeout and returns a performance of 66 pst. by the basis of calculation. And it could be relevant in cases where it takes longer than five years before one can finish the treatment and get well, maybe it takes longer before death occurs, or a relapse and again comes into a very difficult situation. The rule of exception hopes and believes that we will be able to capture a lot of cases, and that he will help further strengthen a system that we are about to strengthen today. At the same time – I kept saying – no matter what system is adopted here today, it will still be possible to imagine the case of people falling outside. Therefore, it is so important that one does not allow this to happen, but that one continues to work from the department to strengthen the interaction between Nav and the municipal auxiliaries, which will have to play a role in ensuring seamless transitions between the state and municipal responsibilities. I'm glad that an almost collective committee is behind a comment on that, and I expect and hope that it will be followed up in the future, so that the intentions of the majority here today can be fulfilled and ensure that those who come into a demanding situation with sick children do not have to think about personal finances and practical questions, but should be able to think about their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1947	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for the thorough work and good cooperation in this matter. It is very gratifying that this matter is being dealt with, because it is a matter that has taken its time. The promises have been large both from the government parties and from the supporting parties, and it is therefore understandable that the waiting time has been long for those who have waited for the care scheme to apply to them. It is also worth noting that changes are not to be made before several months after the election. It shall not remove the pleasure of actual changes, but the representative Rotevatn is aware of what is to be said in the election campaign. It is very positive that it is envisaged that the care scheme should include more, that it should be more flexible and that it should be possible to be able to accommodate as two parents when the need is greatest. Seriously ill children who need continuous care and care need their parents. They need the security the closest can provide. Parents also need the room to be able to be present as parents with care and care. In many cases, the option will be day-to-day institutional care with the costs it incurs for individuals as well as for society. Although SV thinks improvements are positive and that more people come under the scheme, we have proposals for further improvements. The first is about economics. When children get sick, the community should set up. We have a principle that children do not pay self-esteem and that the costs of children's sickness are fully covered. No child can support himself or herself, and parents in difficult and demanding care situations have little or no opportunity to increase their income. That's why we don't want a reduction to 66 pst. the income after the first year but the principle that the needs of children for care and care are fully met by the community is followed. The second is about the possibility of a new maintenance period when the time has elapsed. The need for care and care of the child must underpin the assessment of, and the possibility of, a new period of care, not rigid systems. Children with a view to improvement also need care after 1 300 days if the health situation so requires, and relapses can unfortunately occur – and this happens. Nor do I see any reason to argue about the lock-in effect or absenteeism of the workplace, as you do in the basics of the case, because it is inferior when the child demands everything you have, and everything you are. The real containment is about the child’s health situation, and care for seriously ill children does not threaten a working line. It is important that the age limit of 18 years does not apply to people with developmental disabilities. It's about man's need for security and security and that the systems need to be adapted to people, because people can't always choose to fit into the system as it is built. I'm addressing SV's suggestions. I would also like to mention that I was unfortunately prevented from attending the delivery meeting. Therefore, SV is included in some comments that we should not have included. I just want to make it clear during the debate. I would also like to mention that we subsidly support the proposal of the Central Party and the proposal of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1963	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has taken up the proposal she has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e1968	This is a day of joy. The legislative proposal under consideration today concerns proposals for changes to the rules of the Code on the care of working parents with sick children. The proposal is a significant improvement to the current system and extends the scheme to be also an income insurance scheme for parents with long-term ill children. Today's care scheme is strict and has complicated legislation. It is not predictable for parents of sick children, and the complex legislation makes the exercise of discretion very challenging for the Employment and Welfare Act. The reform of the care scheme has been important for the government and is a follow-up to the Sundvolden platform. I am therefore pleased that the Labour and Social Committee supports the government's proposal for significant improvements to the system. We now include many more sick children in the scheme, we simplify the legislation, and we make it more flexible to make it easier to combine care tasks with work. We propose to relax on today's strict disease requirements. Now it shall be sufficient that the child needs continuous supervision and care due to the disease or injury. Children with permanent illness are now included in the scheme. Today, they are only inside in very narrow exceptional cases. The age limit is extended to one common general upper age limit of 18 years, compared with today’s 12 years for children treated in a health institution and 18 years for others covered by the scheme. At the age of 18, the child will be granted independent rights under the Swedish Social Security Act. The Government proposes to extend the possibility of grading down to 20 pst, so as to facilitate the combination of care and participation. Care allowance is proposed from the first day. So we're canceling today's seven day-olds in health care. It is also proposed that both parents be able to withdraw care allowance at the same time as necessary and not only when the child has a life-threatening or very serious illness. I am pleased that many more families will now be entitled to care allowance and thus a simpler everyday life in what for most people will be a very demanding time. Care allowance, which is currently reserved for working parents and is a temporary benefit. It implies that there is still a requirement for prior work and loss of labour income. The average daily allowance is taken for less than 40 days. The Government proposes that care should be provided for up to 1 300 days of benefit per child until the child is 18 years of age. It is equal to five years if the care allowance is taken continuously by 100 pst. Of these, 260 days are given with 100 pst. compensation for lost income, while the remaining 1,040 social benefits are provided by 66 pst. compensation. It's very similar to the course of your own illness. We want to make the care system more flexible by allowing parents to get better pay when they combine care with work. When graduated care allowance is taken out, the maintenance period is extended, but up to a maximum of 10 years. The overall proposal provides a good balance in which several are entitled to care allowance, while maintaining the purpose of care allowance to compensate for temporary retirement of labour income in order to care for sick children. It is gratifying to note that the majority who took part in the hearing would prefer the new scheme to the current one. I notice that the majority of the committee has proposed a derogation from the time limit for children in need of continuous supervision and care because of life-threatening illness or injury. Some of the simplification gains could be challenged by the introduction of judgemental assessments, but I see that this issue has been assessed by the Committee. I am pleased that the majority have mainly joined the proposal as a whole to a new care scheme, so that far more families than today are covered by an important welfare scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2002	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2007	In its statement, the Council of State said that entry conditions and compensation schemes are very similar to the current health insurance scheme. In today's health insurance system, you can have a cancer for one year and be treated for it, and you have sick pay and, if applicable, redundancy pay. Later in life, an accident can occur and a person gets sick pay and, if necessary, follow-up. But in terms of child care, the Council of State did not leave it that way. It's in the proposition: ‘In more detail, the Ministry has concluded that it is not proposed that a new right of employment should be possible.’ Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2017	With the proposal we are now considering, relapses or sensitivities – complications such as: cancer treatment – as opposed to today being covered by the scheme. As far as I am concerned, I am pleased that the Storting is making significant improvements, not least in terms of the disease requirement. As I mentioned in my main post, the average for those using the scheme is less than 40 days. Because we also make it possible to put the days in the bank – the time-accounting system – it means that the most, most probably, will also have days left. In addition to the care scheme and the possibility of saving days, care benefits are also provided, and aid is provided. The municipality has assistant arrangements and other arrangements to assist the families. In sum, we believe that the arrangements we have could be good solutions for the families that are in a very difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2024	I record that the Council of State did not respond to what was her own proposal – she is pleased that the Stortinget has made improvements in her own proposal. It's good that the Council of State sees that very point. I'm recording that there's a big difference between those who have the usual sick pay and those who have to have the care. It's all the weakest, so here the Council of State should have thought that it could be a situation when she submitted the matter to the Stortinget. Another situation applies to those with a developmental disability. A 19-year-old who lives at home with his parents, who's going to a hospital, needs safe care. Is it true that parents should cover it with their own pockets?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2033	The mentally retarded people over 18 years of age will also have the opportunity to make use of the schemes that I now mentioned, such as care assistance, the aid scheme and other schemes that local authorities have. Many municipalities assist the parents in the type of examples that the representative Aasrud here refers to. We've thought that the sum of those arrangements will take care of these families in a good way. Then I register that Stortinget wants an additional safety valve for the families where you, among other things, has a relapse, and I believe that Stortinget has found a good solution. But the most important thing we do with the system now, in addition to reducing the disease requirement, including long-term sick children, raising the age limit from 12 to 18 years, enabling parents to take leave at the same time and allowing for the combination of care tasks with work, is a significant improvement. Between 8 000 and 9 000 children today are being excluded, and we're adding between 500 and 550 million. kr on the table, just to make the system better for families.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2042	It's interesting, as was said by the representative Bergstø here, that the system only comes after the election. You've spent four years investigating. There was a NOU lying there, so one could have been something faster to get it done. I reregister that the Council of State does not answer my question. A mentally retarded person who lives at home, who is 19 years old, and has not been in contact with the municipal auxiliaries – is it right that parents should take the time off and take the cost of accompanying that person to the hospital for treatment? Why could it not have been suggested in the proposition that it should have been like before for the less developed, that parents could have extended the opportunity to follow them there, that it should also apply after the age of 18?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2049	Let me first mention the NOU to which the representative Aasrud referred. It was nice in the drawer when we took over the government offices. In this way, the previous government had a good opportunity to start the work itself, but it chose the previous government not to do it. It was this government that took the sample report out of the drawer, and has proposed further improvements, which the other government never took. If mental retardants are in need of hospitalisation, arrangements through the municipality can be made. There is a full possibility of receiving care assistance through the municipality, with the full possibility of applying for aid – the state aid scheme or other schemes with which the municipalities can provide. The improvements we are now making in the care scheme and in the other schemes that both the State and the municipality have, we believe, lead to a significant improvement in the arrangements for families with sick children. There are long-term schemes, and I am glad that the Stortinge essentially joins the government's proposal. Except that it is a small improvement, a small safety valve, I believe the Stortinget now decides, is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2058	I want to start my line by saying that there are improvements that have come. As you can see, it's a happy day, because there's a lot of people coming under the care scheme. And the four parties joined forces and wished for these changes in the last period, but did not get through to them then. So that's how it's very positive. But I feel that the answers that the Council of State does not give to the representative Aasrud are economics. One has prioritised as far as one could, and longer one did not, while one far on the way shares the intentions. Therefore, my question is: does an estimate take on additional costs of sick pay, to institutions, all the extra costs – something that ends up in the municipality, something that ends up in the state – but does it have a set of total accounts for it? The most important thing is the human being, by the fact that for those who want to be at home, there should be an opportunity for that. But has a set of total bills for it, when one has done the priorities that the government finally chose?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2067	It is clear that for the community it will be far more expensive to expand the provision of institutions to many of the long-term ill children, and perhaps especially to those who are mentally retarded and are going to live in institutions. There is no doubt that there will be a great cost to society. At the same time, it is important that we also have good public relief services, care services, for parents with seriously ill children. We know that many of the children we're talking about here require advanced medical treatment, which you might have to be careful about instructing parents to take responsibility for. That is why we have been concerned that we should have a system that takes care of the family's need to care for their children temporarily. We are now incorporating the permanently ill children as well. At the same time, it is also important that families feel secure that when they need relief or when they need an institution offer, they should also receive it. I am pleased that the bourgeois parties have agreed on this arrangement. The previous government never prioritised it. It is an important reform that benefits families.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2077	I am very proud that the red-green government prepared the reason for the change that is taking place today, and that the matter was thoroughly investigated and reviewed in order to improve the care allowance system. It's because no child can support himself. Therefore, SV will provide parents with income beyond the first year, because it may be critical to go down as much when the prospects are unpredictable and the care tasks are large. But someone needs parental support longer than others, and especially for people with developmental disabilities. I listen to the debate, and I try to understand: Why does the Council of State think that people with a developmental disability cannot be exempted from the age limit of the care scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2084	There are several changes we are making to this scheme. In addition to adding more and removing qualifying days, the age limit changes from 12 to 18 years. In the case of 18 years, it is related to children becoming adults and receiving their own rights and income. When I read the consultation opinion to SV's own health agency, Inga Marte Thorkildsen, she fully supports the changes proposed by the government, and refers, among other things. to ensure that 18-year-olds also receive their own social security rights. But then we're concerned that many of them will also need to bring some if they're going to hospital or something. In this way, it will be possible to make use of the schemes that are available through social assistance, through social assistance and through other welfare schemes, and that is important. We believe that the sum of what we are doing now, along with the other offers you have, will significantly improve the offer for families who have not received anything before.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2091	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2096	Finally, Stortinget deals with this amendment of the People's Security Act, which improves the care system. Many parents of seriously ill children are in demanding care tasks and are subjected to heavy loads. There was also a strong emphasis in the NOU of the Kaasa Committee, which the previous government reduced, but unfortunately did not follow up. It happens now – finally, and very long-awaited. The week before Easter, the Remaining Alliance presented its survey of relatives, a thought-searcher of a survey, documenting the enormous effort that relatives make, not only parents of sick children, but all relatives in Norway. The message of the Alliance was clear: the most important thing we can do for relatives is to value their efforts, make their work visible and include them better in the future. Before Easter, after examination in the Health and Care Committee, the Stortinget adopted new legal provisions that strengthen the legal status of the relatives by clarifying the responsibilities of the municipalities for providing support to relatives with particularly burdensome care tasks, including: care allowance. That's Prop. 49 L for 2016-2017, on enhanced related support. In this, there is also an obligation for the municipalities of exactly the representative of Aasrud in his post: to provide family and family support. These are legislative changes that need to be seen in the context of the significant extension of the care allowance scheme proposed by the government and which the Stortinget will adopt today – a solid uplift, an estimated increase in the number of people receiving care allowance, by 8 000 to 9 000 people, twice as many as today. It's taking parents with seriously ill children seriously. Overall, with enhanced family support in the case of the Health and Care Committee and strengthening the care system in this case, our government has improved the arrangements for relatives, which has been in demand and extended for years. Of course, one can do more for parents with seriously ill children. Nor is it difficult to understand that someone wants more and that the government should go further. But it is very positive that many parties today praise the government to strengthen the arrangement. At the same time, it is a bit striking that the parties that almost kept the relatives at arm's length through their eight years and did not strengthen any of these arrangements, are still not satisfied and propose any more. Today, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left show that our parties are prioritizing a big boost to the care scheme, and we know that this will change the daily lives of many relatives in Norway. We also think it is very positive that the three parties propose an exemption clause which takes seriously the acute situation of parents of children who are seriously ill or who have relapses, may arise in – an exception clause that may occur in very special cases, but which may be absolutely essential for the few.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2111	In 2015 it was approx. 8 500 people who received care allowance. The total cost was approximately $480 million. kr per year. The proposal we are discussing today is a major extension of today's system. In fact, twice as many people are entitled to care on the basis of the proposal that exists, and enlargement involves a budget increase of 560 million. kr on an annual basis. For socio-economic reasons, it is necessary to provide a framework for the level of compensation and the length of benefits. Calculation of care and sickness benefits based on an almost identical set of rules is both neat and correct, and there was also an understanding in the committee. Both are benefits intended to cover loss of income in the event of temporary absence from work due to sickness. I would like to comment on the 18-year limit, which has been raised here in previous articles and also in questions to the Council of State. In the past, there were two rules that applied to care allowance, one for 12 years and one for 18 years, now they are combined into one rule, which applies for 18 years. When the child is 18 years of age, the child is considered to be an adult in the sense of popular security and is granted independent rights to income security in the law. It also applies to people with developmental disabilities. At that time, the parents no longer have the obligations under the Children’s Act. I understand that it is a difficult situation and challenging when a resident mentally retarded person over 18 years of age gets seriously ill, needs to be hospitalized and needs close care professionals around him to feel safe. When the State benefits are abolished, the municipal assistance service shall take over because it is a municipal responsibility to provide the necessary health and care services to all citizens. Based on a new care scheme, there will be plenty of time for parents of long-term sick children and the municipal emergency care system to work together, plan and agree on how to deal with an acute illness situation and possible hospitalisation – because I know that hospitals will have someone there who knows the retarded person and who can assist in care, which is important for the safety and also for communication with the sick person and for proper hospital care. I come from a municipality where this is solved by the fact that parents or other close persons are paid by the municipality in such a situation to enter such a temporary care role in a hospital. It must always be the best solution for the help needing, which is the guide for which help is to be inserted. I have great confidence that the municipalities will take this responsibility and get good solutions with the family or close care staff if such situations occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2122	Today, we received an important e-mail from someone named Kari Fjugstad Giske, who tells us how the new care scheme will affect families with home-dwelling developmentally-affected young people, adults, over 18 years of age. We are talking about young people and adults who are unable to respect their own rights and who, in the event of a serious illness, should no longer be able to deal with their loved ones, for example. hospitals, without this affecting the family economy. It seems little thoughtful and hits arbitrary and hard families who already have it difficult. However, the worst thing about this tightening is the consequences for the less developed person himself. Fjugstad Giske says this in a striking way. She writes: For a person with a developmental disability who is also very ill, it's all about safety. It is not easy to find any people who know the youth and who can follow him at hospitalisations. Unknown persons to protect him in a very vulnerable situation are not only unfavorable, it is also very irresponsible from a medical point of view. These young people will depend on someone to understand them, know their way of communicating, interpret disease signals, create security in a critical situation and know the background information. I guess it's more clear than this. I am pleased that the Workers' Party, SV and the Christian People's Party – I am a little uncertain about where the Center Party is located here, based on the signals given – is in favour of continuing to apply the rights to care allowance beyond the age of 18 for those with developmental disabilities. There is a lot of positive in the care area, and the government and the support parties have every reason to be proud of the work they've done, but that's why this tightening becomes special, and it becomes especially petty and incomprehensible in that context. However, in connection with the fact that we have just had Easter, there is something called mountain-wet rules, and they also apply in politics – so it is not too late to turn around. I also want to challenge the Council of State whether she knows how many of these things apply, because according to my information, there is a relatively marginal group, but it is going to hit hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2139	The reason why I take the floor is the problem that several people have been dealing with now, with the part of the proposal that is a tightening up. I want to say first that I think they are very good, the improvements that have been made. The government should be grateful that they have come, because these are very important improvements. However, with regard to the situation of 18-year-olds, a group is particularly vulnerable and is now experiencing a narrowing. They are in a very critical situation. The fact that the person with a developmental disability and a serious illness gets a misappropriation does not solve this problem. What we're talking about now is the possibility of being away from work or having an income while following up on your child, which in this context still has to be said to be a child. In the special care situation, one might be even more in need of a fixed arrangement by the state instead of having a system that varies from municipality to municipality, as the representative from right was up here and said. It is well and good that some municipalities do this in a good way. It may also be possible for some of these to plan this, but it may not be, because the situation for these children too can change very quickly. There may be cases of illness that have been present for a long time, and where it has been possible to reach such an agreement with the municipality, but there may also be things that are urgent, where the municipalities are in no way attentive or enable families to meet the great need for care that this child has, and which the health care system also says there is a strong need for someone to follow up. I wish that, at least on the part of the Council of State, one had a recognition of this problem and said that this is something we can look at further, and not reject it as a problem at all. For the enquiries we have received, it shows that this is a serious problem for some, and I am quite sure, like the representative de Ruiter, that this is not very true for many. I am also sure that the majority in this Chamber would support the government if they had made such an extension.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2148	I'm not going to go up the debate again, and I'm not going to repeat things that have already been said, but there are some allegations in the debate here that the red-green government wasn't interested in the issue of care money. The council said that the Kaasa Committee's setting was put in a drawer, and indicated that as the responsible state council she took it out of the drawer, where it was well buried. Others from the majority parties have been involved in the same thing. I have sat and looked a little online. The Kaasa Committee, which was set up by the Red-Green Government, gave its opinion to the Ministry and the Red-Green Government on 17 October 2011. So I got Stortinget Meld. Art. No. 29 for 2012–2013 – it was presented by the red-green government on 19 April 2013. Den has «Morgendays nurturing». The Committee gave an opinion on the Stortinget on 11 June 2013 and the Stortinget examined the report on 17 June 2013. Then we had choices in 2013. My question goes in a way: Why did it take as much as four years to get this case up to Stortinget? My next question is: What do the majority parties and the government think would be a reasonable trial period for the red-green government on this matter that deviates from what was the actual course? Now I see that the case rapporteur has signed up for me, so I expect that I will get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2157	I was not quite prepared to answer the question from Christoffersen. I was only going to respond to the recordings that have been made on the 18-year limit. I believe I said quite clearly in my post that when the state benefits cease, municipal responsibility should be included in the picture. With the new scheme, it is time to plan good arrangements for long-term ill children, who are at risk of development. It's a municipal responsibility. It is not only the municipality of Asker that does it, but also other municipalities that have to take that responsibility. I can't quite get away from commenting on what has come out of the Workers' Party and SV that we have now made changes, but they will come into force after the election to the autumn. The working party and SV spent eight years in government without doing anything about the care scheme. Yes, there was put down a Kaasa selection, there came a NOU, but there was no doing anything about it. So maybe something came up in 2013. But what the government of Solberg did was take it into the government statement and say that we would do something about the care scheme, and we are doing that today. So let's put that out. There has been a thorough process, there have been major hearings, and we have listened to the recordings that have come, and have received an improved version of what we are dealing with today. That's why I'm very pleased that the representative Lundteg actually stood up here and gave the government credit for today promoting this matter, which has become a much better arrangement than the one we have today. It is simply a matter of joy!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2164	I got a specific question about the number of mentally retarded exemptions that will apply. In this case, it will apply to home-dwelling mental retardants. It is a little difficult to give an exact answer, but we estimate approx. 100 people. I'm going to be the first to admit that for some people it's going to feel like a tightening up that you set an absolute age limit. At the same time, we have felt that this is right, also because there are many other good arrangements, which have also been explained by the rapporteur. There is support for care in municipalities, there is a government aid that can help, and there are various assistants in municipalities. In recent years, significant improvements have been made in many other schemes, so we believe that the sum of the schemes will also provide this group in a good way. With regard to the time we have spent on the matter itself, the economy was one of the things that had to be assessed in advance of the case being sent to the hearing. At the same time, we also received quite a lot of input into the matter itself, which meant that we had to consider the recordings we had received from the hearing bodies. This meant that we made significant improvements to the proposal that had been put to the hearing. It was probably an improvement of approx. 150 million. kr more than in the proposal initially put to the hearing. So what we're dealing with here today is a significant improvement in the system that the government originally sent out at the hearing. But again – I am glad that the Stortinge joins the government’s proposal. This is a joyous day for many of the families that are now included, who can now care for their sick children at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2173	There is no doubt that for most people this is a much better scheme than the existing one. It shall be commended to the Government and to the Cooperation Parties. But for some, this is going to be a worse arrangement. Maybe some of the most vulnerable and most vulnerable, because they're not just somatically very ill, they're also retarded. I appreciate the fact that the Council of State will sign it out with the number and say that it might be a hundred people. Then it becomes quite incomprehensible that when you make a good new system, you tighten up for the most vulnerable group. I'm sorry, I can't understand this. Nor can I understand that it should depend on where you live, when we know how these arrangements work in practice in the municipalities – very differently. We have experienced welfare refugees in this area – people who move from municipality to municipality because they feel that the follow-up of their children is so different and so random. So no, there's no reason to trust that every municipality does its job here. Some do it, but not at all. It's just to have a chat with those who have children, for example. developmental inhibition or other challenges in that spectrum. So to that with a care allowance, what is now called a care allowance. That's the exact same problem. It's just to go and see what kind of practice there is in the municipalities in terms of care pay. The law says that care pay should be offered, but some municipalities do not pay care in practice, while others are very generous with care pay. Some pay very little for care, others pay very much for care. Similar cases are treated very differently. So it's a system that works badly. It is perhaps one of the most functioning public schemes in Norway. In the case of aid, as previously mentioned by the Council of State, there could be a possibility: very well-known is aid which ceases when the child becomes 18 years old, when disability occurs. I guess children are not supposed to pay their parents to be in the hospital when they have so many other caregivers who can work in such a setting. I hope that this is a small loss in another good political craft, and that one does not close that door completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2183	Today we have learned that after a year and a half from a NOU, changes have not been made – one and a half years. It's critical, but that you spend four years presenting a matter that will apply after the election, that's very good. I am happy to go through the NOUs that are in the government apparatus, and see if there are any there that have been more than a year and a half. At least then I'm going to make sure that the government's representatives remember that it's critical. This case concerns one hundred people with developmental disabilities. I think those who are sitting here should know a little about their conscience and think about whether it is right that they should be left to a municipal auxiliaries or social welfare schemes that are not adapted to them, for example when they are going to. in the hospital, whether it makes sense that people who may not have had an offer from the municipality before must suddenly have a municipal employee with the insecurity that may result from the experience of an auxiliary. That's exactly where we should know a little bit after and maybe think about when we vote afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2190	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2206	No one has asked for the floor. Case No. 8–10 concerns the second processing of legal acts and the legislative acts 71–73. The President will propose that matters be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2248	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2264	In connection with the decision of the Stortinge in the context of the examination of Innst. 239 L for 2016-2017 on changes to the Health and Care Services Act, etc. there was an error in the provision concerning its entry into force. [[reinforced related aid]] In the case of an incurrency, the determination contained an overstatement. The legislative decision is therefore not acceptable, and on behalf of the Health and Care Committee I would like to make the following proposals: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: For IV, the following provision shall be adopted to be amended as follows: The Act shall enter into force on 1 October 2017.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2279	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has then put forward the proposal she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2302	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Ola Elvestuen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Bård Vegar Solhjell on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to change its practice so that all decisions to send Norwegian contributions to international operations are presented as a matter of voting for the Stortinget. This matter will not necessarily be replaced, but will complement any information in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence.’.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2334	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to anchor through debate in Stortinget if the government wants to send Norwegian forces into armed conflict beyond NATO’s borders.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2349	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to incorporate a firm practice of external evaluation after Norway has made significant contributions to international military operations.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an external evaluation of the Norwegian participation in the Libyan operation in 2011.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2371	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish its own legal system to ensure that prisoners held by Norwegian forces in connection with the armed conflict are protected and how the rights of persons held by Norwegian soldiers can be respected in our international operations.’ As far as the President is concerned, in the course of the debate, all the other parties have joined the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2396	The President has understood that the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left will now support the vote subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2422	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Mr Huitfeldt on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an indicative allocation key to be established by the government to ensure a predictable prioritisation of long-term poverty-oriented assistance and to propose such an ‘aid key’ in the 2018 budget proposal in the context of the restructuring of the budgetary structure. The starting point should be that about 70 pst. goes to long-term assistance [[excluding the vulnerability component]] The President has reason to believe that this will be a sharp vote. The Right, the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2494	It's written first over I, II, VI, IX and X. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2508	It is then added over IV. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2522	It is then added over III, V, VII and VIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2545	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2570	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party, proposal No 3, from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on public security is amended as follows: Paragraphs 9 to 12 are replaced by the following: Care allowance is provided by 100 pst. according to the calculation basis according to § 9-15 for up to 1 300 days per child. For each day of unupgraded performance, a social benefit day is counted. Days of rated performance are counted in such a way that the percentage of care taken during a week is deducted from the number of social benefits days. When two caregivers take out unupgraded benefits at the same time, two social benefits days are counted. If the total take-off is less than 200 pst, the number of days shall be counted proportionally after the second paragraph. After 1 300 days of social assistance, care may be provided to persons who are caring for children under 18 years of age who have a disease or injury and who need continuous supervision and care. An exception is made to the age limit for people with developmental disabilities. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on graded performance.’ The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2612	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on public security is amended as follows: Paragraphs 9-12, sixth paragraph, are replaced by the following: When, less than five years after the end of the granted allowance period, the conditions for entitlement to the allowance are re-established, a new allowance period of 66 pst is granted. from the basis of calculation up to 1040 days per child. When the conditions for entitlement to a care allowance are re-established more than five years after the end of the granted period, a new allowance period shall be provided.’;» The Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2634	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on public security is amended as follows: Paragraphs 9-12, second and third paragraphs are replaced by the following: After 1 300 days of social assistance, care can only be provided to persons who are caring for children under 18 years of age who have a life-threatening disease or injury and who need continuous supervision and care. Derogations are made from the age limit for people with developmental disabilities. Care allowance after this term is provided with 66 pst. by the basis of calculation. Children who have had a serious life-threatening illness and who have used up the right to a care allowance are given a new period of care if the child is retiring or has a new diagnosis that triggers entitlement to a care allowance.’ The Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2903	The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have now announced that they support the vote subsidiaryly where their own proposals have fallen, and the President assumes that the vote will thus be unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2914	It is then voted over the title of the law and the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2924	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2965	It is then voted over the title of the law and the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2975	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2984	Case No. 8–10 is the second time legal proceedings and concerns legislative acts 71–73. There are no comments on any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e2994	Case No. 11 is the second time the law is handled and applies to the law decision 74. During the debate, the representative Kari Kjønaas Kjos presented a proposal on behalf of the Health and Care Committee. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: For IV, the following provision shall be adopted to be amended as follows: The Act shall enter into force on 1 October 2017.’ There is a vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e3018	The legislative decision, together with the adopted note, will be set up until the third reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-18.ana.ud430e3073	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
