ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e37	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Ingunn Foss and Liv Signe Navarsete on leave from 8 May to 10 May, both to take part in a seminar chaired by the NATO Parliamentary Assembly on Svalbard from the representative of Mr Hans Olav Syversen on leave from 8 May to 11 May to take part in a seminar chaired by the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, on Svalbard and Oslo respectively from the representatives of Gunnar Gundersen and Svein Roald Hansen on leave from 8 May to 12 May, both to attend meetings of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee in Canada and Mexico; from the Workers' Group on the welfare leave of the representative of Ingrid Kjerkol from 9 May to 11 May On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For West Agder states: Benjamin Groenvold 9-10. May For the state of Hedmark: Rangdi Krogstad 9-11. May For Oslo County: Ann Kathrine Skreyshammer 9–11. May For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Jenny Følling 9.-10. May For Nord-Trøndelag counties: Jorid Holstad Nordmelan 9-11. May For Eastfold County: Wenche Olsen 9.-11. May
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e135	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e144	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for a very good statement on equality. That was a good input to the debate we're going to have today. It is not many days since the President of Saudi Arabia had an article in Norwegian newspapers that created a somewhat headstrong debate. He was a little annoyed that some criticised women's rights in his homeland, and that one should have respect for it. It should also be said that he pointed out in some areas where things went right – more women in business, etc. But what was a little difficult to take seriously was that it was seriously argued with freedom of choice, i.e. that women wanted to have authority, liked to have a private driver, it seemed like it was hard to go out alone and had to be protected by an old-fashioned law in order not to be penalised culturally. Instead of using the law to give freedom of choice, laws are passed to cement a culture that takes the freedom of women for their own protection. This is the opposite of what we've done in Norway. Here we have adopted laws that give greater freedom of choice and prevent discrimination. It has not always been the case that Norwegian culture has come as far as the law. But the laws are going to give freedom of choice to break what has been considered the usual until now. The Council of State made a statement on how much has changed in Norway only recently. Let's take a completely random number of years, for example. 1969, which was my year of birth. It's been 47-48 years. At that time, it was not common for mothers to be out in the workplace. My mother worked a little part time, but most were at home, and almost none of those I knew went to kindergarten. No one was divorced either, but not everyone was happy. The adults knew that, but they didn't talk about it. Sexual assault could happen, but then it was like someone brought you into a car. It wasn't parents or other adults who were close, who were doing that – at least they weren't talking about it. Today, I hardly know any mothers who don't work, and although more women than men work part-time, there will be fewer working part-time on a voluntary basis. Almost all children are in kindergarten, many more are divorced, and families become more diverse. Still not all are happy, but it's more openness, I think, also about unhappiness. Today we know that sexual abuse can happen, also by close caregivers, and fortunately there is more talk about it. But we still have challenges, and we cannot stop working on equality and discrimination. We have been working on several important issues during this period – gender equality notification, proposals for common equality and discrimination laws, proposals for changing the enforcement system, strategy against hateful opinions, action plan in the LHBTI field, action plan against violence, to name a few. The Committee has just begun work on new discrimination laws and enforcement. One area where challenges are reported for gender equality in employment is the period during which women give birth, and men and women are at home with children. They do not get their jobs back, they lose pay, and someone does not get a job at all, even if they are the best qualified. That is why it is good that the new law strengthens the protection against discrimination against pregnancy and states that both women and men have protection against discrimination on grounds of care responsibilities. But it's not just useful to be right – sometimes you also have to be right. And for the first time it's going to have economic consequences to discriminate. This is an important step to help those who are being discriminated against, and hopefully it will also discourage anyone from trying. Violence in close relationships is one of society's greatest equality challenges. The place to be safe won't be. This has serious consequences for those who are exposed to violence, for children and for society. I am proud of the work done in this period of government. Victims of violence are to be better protected, research is to be prioritised, all services are to be properly qualified and prevention is to be strengthened. It is also important that services and services are more coordinated. We can never be good enough to discover and investigate violence in close relationships. It is therefore important that this is high on the agenda – always and in all. Right-wing jobs to ensure all the possibility to choose freely and make your own responsible choices. We're not concerned that everyone should make the same choices, but that everyone should have the same possibilities. Gender, age, orientation or disability shall not prevent anyone from reaching their dreams. There are no simple solutions to achieve this objective. It requires that we, as politicians, do not stop having this high on the agenda and that we continue to set new goals. Maybe the next generation will be able to see past sex, age, legation or disability and into the nucleus of each other. Maybe they'll see that inside we're just people, all of whom have a right to a chance to reach their dreams.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e172	Let me first thank the Minister for Gender Equality for the statement that Stortinget had ordered. I agree that Norway is at the forefront of gender equality and that in recent years we have taken significant steps. So it's nice to say that almost all of the examples that the council mentions in its presentation of important and historic steps we've taken are examples of the red-green government period, and that we are now reaping the fruits of it. It shows that politics works. In our attitude to the equality field, we see that it is the will to use the tools available to us, which distinguish us from the right, which also repeats in this statement that most of this is to be left either to the individual or to the other, such as the business community, as the social partners, etc. – The Council of State shows little willingness to take the responsibility that she actually has. The Council of State claims that government's efforts in the field of gender equality are broad, and a number of cases were brought forward to substantiate that claim. Let's look at those things. One was the equality message. It was slaughtered from almost all teams – ‘historically unresponsive’, said UNIO, ‘empty for content’, said LO. ‘The female has spent two years getting a message that no one else would spend more than a few months cutting together.’ That's what Professor Hege Skeie said. Rarely has it been seen as such a clear example that the Storting had to take over the initiative when the government saw until those degrees failed in a field. What about the family message? With it, family policy was decoupled from gender equality policy, to major protests from both employers’ and employees’ organisations. There was no equality policy in the message. It was politics for families with extra needs, and it's good and good, but it just as fully shows a disappointingly clever view of what family policy is. The action plan in the LHBTI field is another matter the Council of State drew up. Well, it was not very well received either. On the contrary, the plan was slaughtered by those for whom it was intended. The organisations complained that the plan is not concrete, there are no new measures there, and it is not followed up in the State budget. The Council of State then believes that a common law on equality and discrimination is in favour of equality. Then it's nice that both Spectators, LO, the Federation of Education, NITO and many others believe the opposite. Among those who initially seem to have been fine with a common law, a large proportion believe that the government’s way of doing so ‘will result in a significant deterioration in the work to promote equality’, to quote the YS. The same applies to the proposal to split the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman. The proposal ‘proposes a serious deterioration of the Ombudsman and the fight against discrimination’, says the Ombudsman himself. At all: to the extent that government efforts can be called broad, it is broad in the sense that it eliminates equality as a political task in the field by field. Split and split, we're going in the wrong direction. On top of all of this comes the cut in paper, which is quite sure to cut the time fathers and children have together. The increase in cash support, which weakens the links of migrant women with the labour market in particular, is also an example. In addition, the government has created a work environment law that makes it more difficult for many to combine working life with family life, and they have cut back on part-time measures. The gender equality statement on Tuesday did nothing but confirm that what equality needs is a new government, because it's something that history shows us, is that equality does not come of itself. Gender equality requires a political will to bring about change, and today's Minister for Gender Equality comes from a party which, at the national meeting to the weekend, is prepared to repeat the wording of the principal programme that the relationship between sex and sex should naturally belong to working life, leisure and private life, without the involvement of public bodies. There, the Workers' Party stands for a willingness to use the policy actively to give everyone equal opportunities. I believe in and of myself Solvency Horne has made an attempt to make an effort and to try to convince her fellow Councillors, but she has failed. She represents a movement that will leave all such things to the individual and to the market. Here we see one of the greatest distinctions between the left-hand side and the right-hand side of Norwegian policy, the willingness to use the tools you can to give everyone equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e205	I would also like to thank the Minister for the statement we received in Stortingen two days ago. Not since Valgerd Svarstad Haugland was Minister for Gender Equality, there has been a similar statement in the Stortinget. I hope it doesn't go 15 years until the next time, because I believe that this theme needs to be highlighted more often. It might sound obvious, but women and men have the same value, and this is important to be told. Women and men have equal value, regardless of gender. Women and men shall have equal opportunities to participate in society and to influence societal development both formally and in practice. Equality is therefore a question of human rights and of human dignity. It is not all right for girls and boys to experience different opportunities, either in Norway or internationally. In Norway, we have come a long way towards equality between women and men, but we must not believe that we are on target. The challenges of equality both in Norway and internationally are great, and we as individuals, and not least as politicians, have a responsibility to be aware of this, and it is not possible to close our eyes to the major gender challenges we face. We know that women are subjected to violence and abuse. We know that women and men are discriminated against in the workplace, that women earn less than men, and much less have leadership positions. We know that girls and boys are treated differently and get different possibilities based on what sex they have. We know that in many countries it's much less likely that you're born at all, you get education, work and a good life if you're a girl than if you're a boy. It's not possible to say that this is going to take care of itself. We have to use political instruments to solve the gender equality challenges, and I think that's right and absolutely necessary, because equality and equivalency are about us, whether we're born as boys or girls, having the same rights and the same opportunities. Many argue for equality because it pays off for work. For my part, equality is primarily about human dignity. I'm convinced that equality is right because everyone is equally worth it. I think equality is good for women, for men, for children and for society as a whole. I'm in the family and cultural committee working with family and gender policies, and it's perfectly obvious that good equality policies are related to good family policies. One of the most important tasks we have as politicians is to enable parents to combine family life and working life. The right to work and not to choose between family and work has been central to women’s struggle and an important asset in today’s Norway. Therefore, good arrangements are so important as flexible parental leave, increased cash support, unpaid service provision, the right to be at home with sick children, breast-feeding and good-quality kindergartens and good-manning. The Christian People's Party will continue to work for a good and active gender equality policy in good combination with a strong and good family policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e220	All people shall have equal rights and equal opportunities to participate in society, irrespective of gender, disability, ethnicity, language, religion, outlook on life, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression and age. Compared to other countries, Norway has come a long way in gender equality, but we must realise that we still have major challenges. The challenges were well described in the Equality Communication presented by the Council of State Horne, but the measures were not in line with the reality description. The Centre believes that gender equality and anti-discrimination work are an integral social view. The best frameworks for gender equality exist in communities with small differences between people and safe, local communities where everyone has a place. The proximity to services and the short route between elected and elected people create communities where volunteering, individuals and municipalities cooperate well. I miss the very decisive effort of volunteering in the work on equality and against discrimination in the presentation of the Council of State. Equality work is laborious over time. In the school system, there are, among other things, to create a school for everyone. When Norwegian school organizes better for students with academic skills than for students with practical, yes, there is discrimination. Already here, the basis for further discrimination can be laid. The work on gender equality therefore starts already in kindergarten and school. In its statement, the Council stressed that the government has now promoted a common law on equality and discrimination. I record that the hearing bodies have had many critical comments on the legal work. Common law can quickly give a dilution and not a reinforcement. I have also noticed several heavy hearing bodies' objections to the government proposing that the law should not apply in the family and private life, as today's equality law does. They believe that this could conflict with the Constitution and human rights. I believe society must give clear notice that home and family are not a place where things can happen behind closed doors. The slightest doubt is that this gives very bad signals, although it is clear from other laws that violence in close relations is prohibited. That, and many other aspects of the bill, should be dealt with in depth in the Stortinget. I agree with the Council of State that it is important that hateful statements have consequences and are followed up by the police and the judiciary. I would also like to point out the responsibility we as elected representatives and politicians have to go ahead as good examples. Our way of communicating affects where the boundaries go for what is perceived as good in the public. Discrimination in the housing market, in the labour market, in the outdoors and elsewhere can lead to children and young people growing up without feeling that they belong. Elections have to take responsibility for more than making laws. We also have to take responsibility for the way we associate and talk about and talk about each other is marked by respect. It is a pity, therefore, that the party of the Council of State often whips up in moods that, in the next round, create discrimination. I think it's a political task to gather us and dampen the fear of what's different. The councils said: ‘As the Minister for Integration, I was committed to getting more immigrant women into the labour market. Work provides opportunities to practice languages and to be well integrated.’ I agree with this, but it does not seem to be concerned about this. When immigrant women are constantly turning into a hub for heated value debates, their opportunities in the labour market may be impaired. We have an increasingly tougher labour market for many occupational groups, which this government welcomes. The government is very clear on making demands, but less clear on how they believe weak groups in the labour market should be able to respond to these requirements. The centre party is working for a working life that allows for the fulfilment of the social contract ‘making your duty, claiming your right’. The desire for free movement and so-called flexibility are at the expense of permanent jobs, full time and Norwegian pay and working conditions. Now the labour market is becoming more crowded for many — in traditional women’s homes, for young people with low education, for refugees or for people with reduced working capacity. Many are also more vulnerable to economic fluctuations and downsizing if they have a foot within.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e259	First of all, thank you to the Minister for Gender Equality for the presentation in Stortinget. As the representative Mr Bekkewold pointed out, it was a long time ago. It is important that this issue is also discussed in Stortinget, that it is not just left as a topic for the representatives we have and for the social partners. For the left, equality is about freedom to be oneself. All people shall have equal rights and opportunities to exploit their abilities, to live their lives and to participate actively in society, regardless of gender. Therefore, as politicians, we need to make it possible for all citizens to shape and live the life they want to live, even when it goes beyond what we stand for. There are different lives, and we have to recognise them and facilitate them. The left believes that the gender equality message that was promoted last year gave some good answers to the challenges in this area. However, we believe that there is a need for new measures and have therefore promoted in our efforts to promote equality. These include: on the need for more knowledge about gender equality challenges for children growing up today. The Equality Ombudsman is little concerned with children, and the Children's Ombudsman is little concerned with equality, so this is where the children fall between two chairs. Early efforts also need to be made to achieve equality. That's why we need to look at equality and children. Equal pay is a classic in the equality debate, and then it's all the more remarkable how short we've come. According to figures from the Statistical Central Office published in December 2016, developments are still in progress. We therefore need to think anew and especially look at the women-dominated sectors. Why is it possible for private individuals to compete to carry out tasks for the community in man-dominated industries, but not in women-dominated sectors? What opportunities does a nurse have to invest in their own ideas and offer new services in the healthcare sector today? Can we make it easier to ‘found’ women-dominated sectors? And can it be that the gain will be both more career paths for women, higher wages and a broader and more diverse service provision? Can we, instead of hanging out the welfare professionals, cheer up the welfare innovators? The health and care sectors face enormous recruitment challenges. We will in the future need all the hands we can get, and we will need more men. When we dealt with the gender equality message last year, the Left proposed that a plan be drawn up to recruit more men for health and care. The need for such a plan is no less today. Women's domination cannot continue, and we must seize to attract more men. Last year, the left proposed to put in place gender-neutral titles to replace the health sister and midwife, but was downgraded – simply by everyone else. The Norwegian Nursing Association, which itself has had the effect of changing the title of nurse to nurse, supported the proposal. It's not just about recruiting, it's about all the positions that should be open to both sexes. We're no longer recruiting firefighters, we're recruiting firefighters. In the case of health sisters, I think a lot of children would have enjoyed having more brothers in health. The government has been asked to investigate the design and introduction of credits for boys and girls applying for studies with 80 pst. or more of the opposite sex. It is relevant for the psychology study, where the girls dominate, but also for others in the health and care sector, to point to that sector: Seven out of ten medical students today are women, eight out of ten psychologists are women, and nine out of ten nurses are women. That we train so few male psychologists is unfortunate when we see the major challenges we face in mental health. For many patients it will be of great importance to talk to a man, not always a woman. Gender equality is not only about women and men, about him or her, but also about her. For some it makes no sense to be him or her. They do not want to change sex, because they neither identify with one or the other. We politicians must have respect and understanding that someone doesn't feel at home in one of the two genders. We have to give room to someone who wants to create his own gender expression. That is why the Left believes it is time to introduce a third gender category, where, as other countries have done before us – for equality is about the freedom to be themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e278	I would like to thank you for the statement that has been made, and I would like to thank you for this debate. The fact that we have a big deal about gender equality being under development is most necessary with today's government, because the Progress Party has never had a policy on gender equality – in addition to reversing gender equality policy and weakening what we have been able to work on. That's why it's actually a pleasure to hear the Council of State mention former governments' efforts for equality as important progress, not least the red-green effort to enhance equality here in the country. We see that there is a total mass rise that is needed to force the policy in the right direction. In particular, the examples chosen by the Council of State to draw attention to the government's policy on gender equality, where cuts in the spring quota, the strengthening of cash support and the weakening of the Working Environment Act are produced as gender equality policies. We must welcome you to the up-down country. To highlight what is a weakening of the Working Environment Act — which attacked both the equality Ombudsman and the trade union movement to be an anti-equality policy — is to say look-a-day from reverse countries — or from the Progress Party. In particular, the increased protection of the discrimination of pregnant shadows is brought about precisely by changes in working life and by attacks on the work environment, because when you are temporarily employed and have a growing amount of coal on your stomach, there is little chance of getting the contract renewed – even if you increase the protection of pregnant women in your working life. Being temporarily employed is too much to wait for life – both in housing, because you don't get a loan, and in children, because you don't dare. It is also particularly important to believe that cash support strengthens equality, while at the same time the aim is to get women to work, and especially women with a minority background. It is also particularly important to say that cash support is important, but that through living requirements, people who have not lived long enough in the country and are far from working life should be deprived of the opportunity to participate in it. The red-green government had a plan for gender equality. There was a systematic plan to improve equality in our country, because you saw that gender and power are hanging together. You can see that there are structures that make people take the choices they make. You see that there are gender roles that are involved in defining us. Therefore, systematic work is needed to break up the structures – what we cannot see, but still do. That's why a sample was put down to get thorough knowledge on the table about what's actually needed. It doesn't hold true for vision, you have to have an equal reality. Why is it that you have equality in the law, but not in life? The Equality Committee provided a thorough investigation, which is absolutely possible if there is a will for a more equal society and a more equal policy. One of the proposals SV has made several times in this room is to have a 10-year programme to combat sexual harassment. It's just that you have to see the system at work. We need to change gender roles and attitudes to change actions. To increase the effort in the fight against sexual harassment is to take young people's everyday lives seriously, that is, young girls are to be taken seriously, not on their buttocks. Violence in close relationships is also one of the big equality struggles, it's also about the struggle for gender, about how we see that our roles have to change, because equality policy is always about trying to change reality. That's how the choices we make are determined by what choices we actually have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e291	I want to thank you for a good debate so far. I think the representative Bekkewold said it so nice that equality is important because everyone is equally worth it! And that's what's the basic idea of the work we're doing on the equality field in the government. In the presentation, I presented the status of equality and diversity in all sectors. I also used the opportunity to refer to the broad range of efforts on all grounds of discrimination, with a focus on equality between women and men. I would like to stress that the government is building on existing structures. But when the representative from the Workers' Party can no longer say that the government has ruined equality, and that the gays go back into the closet again – there was no way how much horror propaganda came into the 2013 election campaign – they have now changed rhetoric and say that it is because of the Workers' Party that it is going so well in Norway. I'm not going to stand here and say who should have the credit for it, but at least it's important to say that Norway is one of the world's most equal countries. It's going the right way. Much of gender equality policy is also linked to family policy and the good arrangements we have today, which enable families to combine family life and working life. I also want to remind the representative of Grande that in terms of the great change we have seen in the construction of kindergarten, it is SV and the Progress Party that have the credit for the great promise that was made at kindergarten. Several have been involved in the gender equality message that the government announced last year. The gender equality message is based on the major challenges we face, and on the areas where we face challenges in the field of gender equality. It is an equality message with over 70 proposals, which was unanimously adopted here in the Stortinget. Then came some request decisions, but I believe that a message can be even better with good proposals from Stortinget, and we follow this up. With regard to the new law currently under consideration, I hope that the representatives will take the time to get involved in that legal work, because it must be the content of the law that is important for us to bring equality and the protection of discrimination forward – not the number of laws, but the content. And the government strengthens the protection of discrimination, especially for women, in the new bill. So for the first time it's going to have consequences to discriminate. It had the previous government's ability to do something about when they promoted matters in the previous period. They didn't. But we know today that very many people who are being discriminated against, especially in the workplace, have to take the case to the court if they are to be compensated, or if it is to have consequences. Today, we are strengthening the new denominator, and we also make it clear the role of the gender equality ombudsman as both a driving force in the field of equality, a clear guide and – not least – the supervisory tasks they will have. Then more people have argued that the Working Environment Act is an obstacle to equality. I will strongly reject that. The Working Environment Act has in itself a flexibility to enable families to combine family life and working life. Being able to have breast-free, being at home with sick children, having a reduced working time is something we should be proud to have in the Working Environment Act. The changes that the government has made up to now are greater access to finding local solutions, greater access to having longer shifts and perhaps more time off, and this also helps to create flexibility in family life. As regards the change in the Working Environment Act, it shows that there has been no increase in temporary employment, and pregnancy protection also applies to those who work temporarily, just to emphasise it, and we also need to evaluate the changes in the Working Environment Act. It is also important for me to stress that it is going the right way. Compared to when we took over, there are fewer people working part-time, there are more people working full-time, the difference between women's and men's average wages is reduced from 2015 to 2016. There are 22,000 more female leaders in 2016 than when we took over, and this figure includes all leaders, both in the private and public sectors. Several children go to kindergarten, fewer use cash support, and most women with children work full time. It shows that good welfare arrangements for families with children help to combine family life and working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e312	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e317	Governments concluded that a lot is going in the right direction. An area where the direction is wrong is the extraction of paperwork – a very accurate grip from today’s government to reduce the time fathers and children have together. The Christian People's Party has realized that what they were involved in was wrong and has assumed that they want to go up to 14 weeks' spring quota again. It's a good trait to realize that you're wrong and trying to fix it. Is the council open to take the same reflection, and see that this actually led to less equality, less time together for fathers and children, or is she comfortable with being the first state council to actively go in and make sure that there is less fatherhood?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e325	I am of the opinion that equality is about more than four weeks of paperwork. For me, it has been important to ensure that children have the opportunity to be able to stay at home longer with their parents in their infancy. Then I've also recognized that the families are different, children are different, and I want to leave the disposal of the parental pension scheme to their parents, so that they can find the best solution. The government, along with the Left and Christian People's Party, has increased the common share, and then we have reduced the quota. We have done this so that more children can have the opportunity, and parents should have the opportunity, to distribute their weeks in the best possible way. We have one of the world's best parental care systems today. There is nothing in the law that prevents fathers from taking more than the ten weeks, and I would encourage more fathers to take more than the ten weeks, and business to work actively to make fathers use more of the parental pension scheme than they do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e334	Some of the major progress made in the field of gender equality in recent years has been through tripartite cooperation, and both LO and NHO have shown that the cut in the paper has been very unfortunate. I have been in the debate with the Council of State where the LO complained about the lack of dialogue with the Council of State in this area and gender equality in general. The NHO was clear that the government does not listen when business is also critical of cutbacks in the paperwork. Is tripartite cooperation for the government a real collaboration, or is it for Horne just a tea company where you exchange opinions, and then the government walks forward as if nothing has happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e339	Tripartite cooperation is very important for the government, and at several of the meetings we have now raised equality as a separate field in the meetings that we have in tripartite cooperation. That's something the government wants to continue with. We have good dialogues on policy development, and we have our own working group under the Gender Policy Council discussing issues that they want to raise for the government. We have also allocated additional funds this year, so that the sample, or tripartite cooperation, of that working group, can come up with good projects that may be useful for promoting equality in the labour market. But I want to stress that it's not just calling on the state immediately it's a challenge. Much of the work on gender equality is also about working life taking an active hold. And as I've said before, when I've discussed it with the representative with the father ratio, a value for this government has been that parents should be able to get flexibility and choice to set up the best for each family.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e346	When we dealt with the gender equality message, Stortinget decided to ask the government to establish its own tripartite cooperation for increasing equality for the social partners. So far we have not registered that it has been followed up. Governments indicated that the government has had various discussions about this, that they have had meetings in the Labour and Pension Policy Councils. But that's not what the Stortinget asked for. The store asked for its own tripartite cooperation, and that money be spent on that work. When does the Council of State intend to follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e351	The government has active tripartite cooperation. We have discussed the request decision of Stortinget with the social partners. The social partners and the government agree to continue the good tripartite cooperation we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e356	First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Gender Equality on the national meeting of the Progress Party, which is to be concluded this weekend. I hope that the gender equality challenges will be given a good place in the discussions there and that good gender equality policy decisions will be promoted. Two consecutive years, the government has provided a budget in which they have cut support for the equality centres. Two years in a row, the Christian People's Party and the Left have had to correct these cuts. Are these cuts a sign that the Minister for Gender Equality believes that equality has come so far in Norway now that there is no need for the important work done by these equality centres?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e363	For the government it has been important to build on the structures we have. There are three equality centres, which the first year got a cut of $200,000, and as the Left and Christian People's Party added $2 million. Extra kroner. In budgetary cooperation, it is also a matter of prioritising, and in the case of the budget cut of DKK 200000 for the gender equality centres, the government chose to spend the money to expand the Jenter and Technology project, which helps to get more girls to apply for the technology subject, and also to build cooperation with Western Agder companies in order to establish a gender equality certification, which has been a collaboration between business and government. Budgetary work is also about priority, and I want to emphasise at least that the structures that are there today are firm, and then we get back to enlargements when we discuss budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e372	Governments have said several times that she wants to build on existing structures. If only it had been to strengthen or further develop existing institutions or functions, it would have been one thing, but when the Council of State promotes local agreements in the world of work without harsh confidence elected as freedom, it is a policy that actually builds on existing structures, understood as social structures, understood as existing power relationships. To try to balance the imbalance in power relationships, a policy is needed for that very thing – to strengthen, to balance. Does the Council of State think that there is a goal of balancing the gender imbalance, power, opportunity that exists, between women and men today? And how in the world should a policy of power be pursued?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e379	Equality is about equal opportunities, it's about having rights, but it's also about the ability to get those rights. Today we have a good piece of legislation, which, with the proposal for a new law on equality and discrimination, we also strengthen, in view of the rights of women. It is important for us to be able to ensure that they are able to do so, and strengthening the enforcement apparatus is also important in this work. With regard to the challenges we face in the field of equality, the solution is not just to have new structures, new bureaucracy. It's not a job that the government can do alone, but we need to do it with the work force. We have a flexible work environment law that allows you to find solutions locally. Many people want to, and this has also been important for the government to be able to strengthen the local level of negotiations outside the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e388	Tonight I'm going to an open meeting about a fountain house building at Gjøvik, in my hometown. For the first time, the Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association shall cooperate on the establishment and operation of a fountain house. Fontenehus is, among other things, an employment agency for those with mental health disorders. They get to work, and there are many in the private sector, in particular, that facilitate the reception of workers with those challenges. Fontenehus is also a welfare innovator, but – and I was involved in it in my post – in that sector, and for women, being a welfare innovator is a major challenge, especially if you may also have some mental health problems. Then it's double up with challenges. What will the Council of State do to facilitate more women entrepreneurs and even more entrepreneurs with some mental health problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e397	Several women entrepreneurs are important because there are too few in Norway and women can create their own jobs. It is also important in the work of the Minister of Industry. So I believe that the representative addresses a very important topic, and that is those that have challenges of mental health, and that may need a slightly more flexible working life. The efforts of the government in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party in the field of mental health also help to strengthen this work. NKS, Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association, and volunteering in general is doing a good job in this area. I also believe that the change in the Working Environment Act regarding temporary employment is important in order to be able to get some groups who are struggling to get into the labour market, the opportunity to be able to show up. It is also important to be able to have flexible working hours in the event of illness in order to get more women and those with mental health challenges into the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e407	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e414	We've had an okay debate that at least makes the differences between the right and the left in Norwegian politics visible: the government parties are laying down behind, making themselves a spectator, observing developments in the field and giving in and of themselves a proper description of reality, but are careful to establish that things are going well, and that you don't see any reason to do anything. But we who meet people in the workplace, talk to young children's parents who are in kindergarten queue, meet women who fear their job opportunities during pregnancy and talk to people who experience everyday challenges, see that despite the fact that Norway is well ahead, there are trends that give cause for concern, which cause increased pressure on families, and where in some areas we see that gender equality is unfortunately put in reverse under this government. It is really alarming that the Council of State in the change of line only smoothly cancels one of Storting's decisions. I believe that there is no room for interpretation by the Council of State of what the Storting decides. We have clearly stated that we want our own tripartite cooperation for equality, and that it must be used to carry out such work. It could have been obvious that the Council of State appropriately warned Stortinget that it would not be possible to follow up a quite clear decision on size, so that we know how to deal with it in the future. The Council of State itself points to the great undissolved potential that lies there if more women are given the opportunity to work full-time where you are either out of work or working part-time today. It brings us to some of the core policy tasks, namely protecting the family, giving the family the opportunity to combine work and care, facilitating the provision of childcare space, protecting overtime, not increasing the pressure on workers through increased access to temporary jobs, and having a government that works more actively to create more jobs than what we see from today's passive government. This makes me really happy that we can get a new majority, which not only describes equality policy as a problem, but describes it as an opportunity for Norwegian society to achieve ever-new goals for society and individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e425	In my reply to the Council of State, I challenged the understanding of power relationships, and that a policy is needed that actively alters and challenges the power of society if we are to achieve more equality, if more equality is actually an objective. Then we came back to the weakening of the Working Environment Act, because when you strengthen the employer's position and push trust-chosen people aside, the conditions of power shift in the wrong direction in the world of work. People who depend on a salary are also in a power relationship with the employer, and therefore we need the union that the union provides, and the security that is in place. But there are some groups that are more vulnerable than others, and there are women who get pregnant and who are on temporary contracts. I'm very happy that the protection of pregnant women's sharpness in legislation, I'm very happy that strong initiatives are being taken there, but I really miss a good explanation on how to have a law that actually protects those who are temporarily employed and pregnant. It's putting people in a vulnerable situation, instead of saying that you should have a safe starting point through regular employment where you don't get life on hold, but dares to take the steps you need. Then it is repeated that temporaryity is important for those who are outside the labour market to come in, and that those who are not in work today will have the opportunity to do so. I miss documentation, I miss numbers, that's actually what's going on. Here we see that the development of working life is that fewer people get fixed jobs, fewer people get a safe job, but there is no indication that more people necessarily get a job. On the contrary, we see that more and more creative forms of redundancy are spreading, and it puts people in a very difficult situation when we come back to power, because then you rarely dare to organize, and you don't dare to talk to trusted people in the daylight. Having a basic structure involving fixed employment is a security within which it is possible to create a level playing field.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e434	The representative of Grande shall request the follow-up to the request decision. Of course, all request decisions are informed about the follow-up of the Stortinget. But I just want to stress that we have a tripartite cooperation today, and it's a collaboration that the government is very happy that we have. We agree that the structure that is established should continue, and equality should be addressed on a regular basis at these meetings. EUR 500000 has been allocated to projects to increase equality in employment within this tripartite cooperation. The working party likes to use words like equality goes in reverse, and then I can't see it any other way than that it's the increase in the common share and the reduction of the allowances that is an example of it. All the other statistics show that equality is going the right way. There are more people working full-time, the pay gap is reduced, the proportion of women leaders is increasing, and there are considerably more girls than boys taking higher education, to mention something. It is also important that we focus on the challenges we face. We are one of the world's most equal countries, but we have major challenges, especially in the area of violence in close relationships, which is a major challenge for equality. We see that we have an untraditional professional choice that is also linked to a gender-based labour market and that we have to work with in the future. I am very pleased that the representative from SV is pleased that pregnancy protection is now strengthened in the new Discrimination Act, and I hope that it is reflected in the vote and that this is something that is also supported by SV. The representative of Bergstø is also concerned with the power of society, and that employers have such great power that it affects employees. Then I would like to remind you that it is a matter of being able for the first time to give up in matters of discrimination in the labour market, and that is a strengthening of the rights of workers. For the first time, the subject of discrimination must have the opportunity to provide economic upliftment, and it will be a strengthening and milestone in the protection of discrimination in Norway, which I hope will also be supported by SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e447	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e463	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e472	The proposals for amendments to the Children’s Act form part of a comprehensive review of the rules on child contributions and contributions after the age of 18 in the Children’s Act. The overall review has resulted in proposals for amendments to both the legal and the central provisions of the regulation. The present legislative proposal responds to the need of the Labour and Welfare Act, Nav, to be able to obtain information from educational institutions on the status of youth as a student and on any progress, in order to re-establish contributions after the age of 18. The information to be obtained includes information on the range of lines and the scope of the study, but does not include information on characters. Secondly, this amendment involves an extension of the right to set-off, which is now limited to cases where a contribution is reduced under the Children’s Act. The change implies that the right to offset overpaid child contributions in future payment deadlines also applies in cases where the child benefits are reduced on complaint or on application. The Committee expects that both of these legislative changes will lead to more effective Nav procedures. In addition to the legislative amendments, the Ministry also proposed several regulatory changes, but in the light of the consultation opinions, the Ministry chose to go ahead with only one of these three proposals, the proposal that school income above DKK 45 900 should be given more direct importance. The Committee has noted that the Ministry has tried to meet the objections of the hearing bodies by modernising its original proposal and proposing that only a quarter of the child’s income above NOK 68 850 be deducted from the amount of the intended contribution. The second quarter is paid to the second parent, since the costs of young people are to be shared equally between parents. Just a little comment on the solution proposed by the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party refers to the hearing opinion of the Legal Service, which points out that it can be considered unpleasant for the individual to have Nav contact the educational institution without his consent, and will therefore make the following proposals: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that young people are informed if Nav contacts their educational institution for information on their study situation.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e486	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e491	I take the floor for a moment to mention that the proposal that Mr Becquerad took up from the pulpit has the support of all the parties in the committee, so that one takes it into account in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e496	The proposals for amendments to the Children’s Act are the result of a comprehensive review of the rules on contributions and the scheme of contributions after the age of 18. It is important to have arrangements that are perceived as fair and reasonable by those affected by them. The legislative proposals in the legislative proposal contribute to this, at least in my view, and I am pleased that the committee supports the legislative proposal that we have now promoted. When a youth seeks contributions after age 18, questions can often arise as to whether or not the youth actually attends school. Means for Nav to obtain the necessary information from the educational institution itself will prevent a conflict between the youth and the contributor when they disagree on the conditions for contributions after the age of 18. Furthermore, it would also discourage the misuse of the scheme, prevent the contributor from incurring contributions debts or unfairly reject applications for contributions after the age of 18 due to a lack of information. In addition, quick and easy access to information on student status will simplify the process and contribute to more efficient management of the scheme. In practice, the contributor has often paid too much in contributions when the contribution is changed and reduced. The bill we are examining now to extend the right to set off will, in several cases, provide contributors who have paid too much in child contributions with an easy and effective way of meeting their outstanding claims. We know that, too, can be anti-conflict. Another reason I took the floor was that in the proposition there was a change in regulation that the school's own income of NOK 45 900 should be given more direct significance. The Government, after a complete and renewed assessment, has concluded that the proposal will not, however, be followed up by an amendment to the regulation. The background is that the government has changed the Social Services Act so that the income of young people is not included in the measurement of financial benefits to parents. It has been done both for social policy reasons and also because we want to strengthen the motivation of young people for work. So a little comment on the proposal of the Christian People's Party. It's a proposal that's perfectly good to send over to the government. There's something that you're basing on in today's practice. It also follows from general rules of procedure that Nav should always give advance notice to the youth when the contributor informs that the youth has left school. Nav will also be able to use it to obtain information directly from educational institutions, including in combination with the information that the young person himself submits to Nav. So this is something that we can clarify in the Nav circular. But the government will follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e515	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e531	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e540	Let me first thank the Committee and the Council of State for a good cooperation on this matter. The Council of State has put forward a proposal with unanimous agreement within the Committee. There is reason to stress that the background for this is that the proposition takes several steps towards a more equal parenthood, not in the interests of parents, but in the interests of the child. The main changes are that one of the legal texts should clarify that the parents can freely agree on the distribution of the parental killers themselves, after a break in life. This does not come out of today's legal text, and it will be an important clarification that will help one to achieve a more equal parenthood in practice. In addition, a change is proposed to ensure that fathers may require the withdrawal of their parental allowance on the days of their care for the child. It's also an important change in the direction of a more equal parenthood. It is essential for the child — in most cases — to have good contact with both parents. Facilitating good practice, facilitating good dialogue between parents in order to ensure that the child is taken into account, including in the case of parental leave, is a pleasure for the Committee to do so. So it's good that we have a unanimous attitude in this area. In addition, the proposal contains some technical amendments to the Municipal Crisis Centres Act. I'm not commenting on it any more, it's purely technical.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e553	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e571	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for Children and Gender on the status of promoting equality and diversity in all sectors be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e579	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that young people are informed if Nav contacts their educational institution for information on their study situation.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e645	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e655	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e722	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e732	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-04.ana.ud478e757	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? That hasn't happened. - The meeting's been cancelled.
