ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e28	The called alternate of the More and Romsdal counties, Tove-Lise Torve, has taken the seat. Applications for the leave of Mr Åse Michaelsen to attend conferences in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly on 22 and 23 March in Vienna and on 28 and 29 March in St. Petersburg, respectively, are submitted by the Progress Party’s Group. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Kjell Ivar Larsen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e53	Kjell Ivar Larsen is present and will take the seat. The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e60	On behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Abid Q. Raja and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ensure that all living quarters and communities are given the opportunity to charge their electric cars, as well as the escalating schedule for the sale of zero-emission cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e65	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e81	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e90	The Prime Minister took part in yesterday's hearing on the government's serious failure to secure vital buildings and facilities against terrorism and other threats. In 2015, the National Audit Office found that there were very serious deficiencies, and that it was very serious that neither the police nor the defense, together or individually, were able to secure public buildings well enough. ‘Very serious’ in the Riksrevision vocabulary means that life and health are at risk. Now the hearing will reveal what has happened and not happened, and it will be summarised. We, here, need to understand why, and one has reason to ask if the deficiencies that have been revealed are now corrected, so that we have reason to feel confident that the situation is not «very serious». Then we go back to 2012–2013 and the time after 22 July and the Gjørv Commission, a Commission that, in full transparency, revealed the challenges – it was honest and sometimes brutal – and was given instructions and plans to correct them. Erna Solberg then spoke about the importance of having an executive role in the preparedness process. That's what's interesting to look at right now. On 9 March 2013, Erna Solberg said that she would set up an emergency service at the Prime Minister’s office, because “the country’s top political leader is finally seventh and ultimately responsible for Norway’s preparedness” – at last. To VG Erna Solberg said: ‘The experience of the 22nd July Commission shows that this is necessary. You need a Prime Minister who is in charge of these matters." My question to the Prime Minister is, in concrete terms, in the light of what we heard yesterday about the conditions in the follow-up to this work and the situation in the two departments: Will the Prime Minister say that she was in charge of these matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e106	I'd like to refer to my detailed response in the 1 hour and 15 minute questioning of the Control and Constitutional Committee on exactly the same topic yesterday. It gives a little bit more space than two minutes on this platform. The main challenge for the Prime Minister's office, and the task of the Prime Minister, is to ensure that responsibility is clearly placed and that coordination is well organised in the government. When this government came into the government offices, we saw that there were some challenges in the field of object security, and there were some unclear areas. These were in particular civil sector institutions and the relationship with the current safety law. This has meant that we have made two significant steps in this area. One is that last year the Storting adopted amendments to the current safety law that allow for any other type of requirements to be imposed by the Safety Act in order to improve some safety components that are to be in the civil sector, as we revealed in the work we did to look at unexplained areas. The second is that we saw that the Security Act was not dynamic enough in view of the challenges that object security currently requires, because the objects we secure will change. They will change in relation to the crisis and conflict picture we see, in relation to the priorities they want – some objects go in, and some objects go out. I answered this in detail yesterday. That is why we have set down a public body, which has submitted a proposal for a new law, a new safety law, which will be dealt with in Stortinget this spring. These are among the things we have done to address the very issue of object security, and to ensure that we have a good regulatory framework related to the treatment of vulnerable installations in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e119	I didn't ask for that statement. I asked if the Prime Minister was in charge. What we heard yesterday gives us reason to doubt that. The Prime Minister said that there was no awareness of this situation before the Riksrevision report. A little later – and I followed the hearing – the Minister for Defence said: we were aware of what we were aware of. The Minister of Justice said in a way that they were aware that it was difficult. Together or separately, they were unable to solve the problems, and it's very serious. Finally, the Prime Minister is responsible, said Erna Solberg. You need a Prime Minister to be in charge of these matters, and I repeat the question: Did the Prime Minister control this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e124	The Prime Minister was in charge of what was the tasks of the Prime Minister's office, and we were in charge of looking at where the gaps, the responsibilities challenges, were. But, as I also said yesterday at the hearing, where, moreover, the Minister of Defence spoke before the Prime Minister, it was therefore that, as a government as a whole, we were not aware of the whole of the complex and deficiencies that had been made in individual ministries before we received the Riksrevision report. But we were aware of challenges in individual areas. That is why I replied yesterday in my post that e.g. in the case of the powers – the constitutional powers – the government’s Security Committee has addressed it and looked at the various related security measures. But the responsibility was clearly placed. In one department, the challenge was that there had been indications and reports that the task had been solved. Then it changed gradually, and then you informed the Storting about it. The second is that it took longer, and we were aware of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e129	Follow-up questions will be raised. The president would point out that the Labour Party has not asked follow-up questions, that is, the party that has main questions. No one's ever drawn. - Jette F. Christensen must have follow-up questions, please!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e138	In yesterday's hearing, I learned something new from the Prime Minister. I learned that it is ‘Norway’s main strategy in the North Sea to stop oil production in the event of a crisis. I learned this when I sat in the Willoch Defence Commission in 1990» – as the Prime Minister said. In the VG today, it turns out that I was not the only one who learned something new yesterday. This is information that is unknown to most people — no one can remember this strategy before mentioned publicly. Professor Dag Wiese Schartum of the Center for Legal Informatics at the University of Oslo tells the newspaper that «the community must have plans to resist an attack, but that they may lose their value if they are referred to publicly». Member of the Control and Constitutional Committee, Hans Fredrik Gruvan of the Christian People's Party, says that he bases – and I quote – «the transparency of the closure of oil production in the North Sea has been assessed and clarified». These are important questions that we need to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e145	Sometimes it's that in the pursuit of listening to something sensational you don't see the forest for just trees. The main strategy in terms of preparedness and safety is governed by Sections 9-2 to 9-5 of the Petroleum Act. Paragraphs 9 to 5 tell you to shut down if there is a crisis situation. So this is completely obvious, it's completely public, it's completely accessible, there's never been any secret craziness around this. It is regulated by Stortinget how to deal with oil and gas installations in an emergency situation, so I was very surprised that you were so surprised. But I realize that in the pursuit of what is exciting, and which looks secret and sounds different, you don't see the forest for just trees. Here there is an open regulation in a Norwegian law, which states in Section 9-5 that we should shut down in the event of a crisis and that it is a responsibility. That is our main strategy in the event of a natural crisis. In the event of a man-made crisis, oil production must be stopped in such a context, in order to ensure that we do not suffer major environmental pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e152	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e157	On 22 July 2011, there was a crossroads in the view of taking both preparedness and object protection seriously, and we saw that there were significant weaknesses in our preparedness. The government of Solberg announced early that they would take hold, and they also took hold. Then we see that the Riksrevision in its report to Stortinget in 2016 pointed out that it is still very serious about the object protection we have. Enough of that responsibility gets POD. So was it that in the debate we had after July 22nd, we were very concerned that we should not get responsibility powdering on such important issues. So my question to the Prime Minister is, who is now responsible for improving object protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e167	Responsibilities are clearly placed by the Security Act also in respect of those features. And it is important not to make vacuum around who is responsible. With regard to implementation, and with regard to the designation of the objects, it is the responsibility of the action holder. This is where the police and the judiciary have been responsible. There are some different systems, and it is difficult to address some of them because something is particularly vulnerable institutions, and some objects are to be notified under the Security Act. Some of these displayable objects are reported under the Security Act, and others are things that are completely critical and necessary in a crisis situation. It is the responsibility of the individual to follow it up. Of course, the total responsibility of the government is to ensure that the systems are in place, that they are implemented. And we have said that it is serious when we see that the pace has led to that it has taken longer, but it is also an explanation that the timeframe set for implementing it was too short. It takes longer to get proper action. It's like it's a hedge of everything, but it's not good enough, and it's not permanent hedge on all of the objects.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e174	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e179	At yesterday's hearing in the Control and Constitution Committee, the Prime Minister said that object protection is not satisfactory. The characteristics of the national audit are ‘very serious’ and are the strongest criticisms they can make. Why has it become like this? Prime Minister Solberg said yesterday that there are no weaknesses in coordination between departments. The hearing concluded that the government was not familiar with the situation before the Riksrevisions report, among others. because the report of 18 May 2015 from POD to, inter alia, The Minister of Justice was wrong. It is unknown to me whether it has had consequences for some of the employees, but it is not mainly now. So knowledge of the actual situation has failed. The government is proud of its own control system and reporting, a system on which the entire state apparatus is based. Is the lesson that we have a great system error and that there must be supervision in the real world hereafter? Only it will determine whether the object protection is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e188	We build supervision based on two different measures. One is the responsibility of the NSM for pointing out and notifying the individual action holders that the protection is not good enough or that the object should be secured. The second is the system supervision carried out in respect of each department and each department, primarily by the DSB — by the Health Authority, the DSB’s underlying office — but by the Ministry of Justice. The government has made changes to these inspections, which I believe have been very important. We've changed the philosophy of supervision. We've said that instead of having a plan to do something, accept it, close the deviations and say that it's okay, we're now waiting for the deviations to actually be closed, and then we'll publish it. Now we look at the later reports that it has had a great impact on closing the measures that have been needed, and we see that the new supervisory philosophy also has a good impact on the implementation of improved supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e195	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e200	If there is one batch on the Stortinget that, in addition to the government parties, must be careful to criticise the lack of object protection in times of crisis, it is the Workers' Party. They have, together with the Right Party and the Advance Party, decided to reduce Homeland by several thousand soldiers and to put down the entire Sjöheimewert. How to ensure our oil and gas installations along the Norwegian coast is thus highly uncertain. Another question is that the Prime Minister would not answer me in the hearing yesterday on whether it is true that the Ministry of Oil and Energy has not pointed out any objects for protection, despite the fact that the department has said this publicly to the VG. It is very alarming that only a few months ago the Swedish Defence Research Institute said: ‘A well-planned attack will have been carried out before the forces of order have exhausted the mobilisation of sufficient resources.’ This applies to vital installations such as Mongstad, Melkøya, Kollsnes, Kårstø, Tjeldbergodden, Nyhamna, Sture, etc. How will the Prime Minister explain that she cannot explain anything to Stortinget, while the department communicates information to VG? And how does she want to assure us that our main industries have adequate object protection along the coast as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e214	Often, questions asked, both here and in a hearing, have several points. This may make it difficult to answer without affecting, among other things. theme related to classified information. It is true that the Ministry of Oil and Energy has not reported any objects to the NSM on protection under the Security Act, but it is only part of the complex around the objects in the energy sector. The defense makes its own assessments of key objects based on defence capabilities. The police pre-designate additional objects and have responsibility in their own district for the objects they designate. So when it comes to the assessment of objects in the oil and energy sectors by the defense and the police, it can't be answered unsolicited, as I pointed out in the hearing. That's why this is a complex. And when Abid Raja draws both of them together in a question in a hearing, he can only get one answer, which is that this concerns classified information. This is also one of the reasons why we thought it might be a good idea to have these hearings in a graduated framework. [[President clubs]] Then you could easily go into the challenges that lie between what's open and what's graduated. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e225	Board Vegar Solhjell – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e230	The Court of Auditors' report has been graduated. So they've compiled a short summary where all the concrete referrals were removed, which was supposed to be public, but which is kept secret. It's short, but it gives a sound and very strong criticism of the situation in 2015. Why was it important to publish it? Well, first of all, because with the July 22 Commission, a particularly high standard of openness was set. Among other things, the existing government upgraded the document from the government's security selection. The second reason is that openness causes more criticism, which can lead to more pressure on change. I am not a professional – neither of us is – but I have read many classified documents. After reading this, it is impossible for me to understand why it should be secret, especially after the hearing, where there is far more precise and concrete information about the situation in notid than what it says there. What goes well in notes can be open, but what went bad two years ago keeps a secret. Does the Prime Minister understand that, through this, there is once again a suspicion that one has used the Security Act... to avoid criticism? [[President clubs]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e239	Prime Minister Erna Solberg, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e244	Against the Storting, the government has full transparency on the classified issues. This means that it will be fully possible to implement all these questions for the control function of the Storting, and it will be possible to decide on the classified questions as well. I understand that it may be a dilemma, but it's a safety argument why it can be easier to say what's in place, and what's secure, than to show what's the vulnerabilities. The vulnerability is the safety risk. That is why it is more difficult for them to be public. When it comes to the question of grading, it is that the Security Act is very clear in terms of responsibility – who can be graduated. It's the owner of the information, which degrees, initially. Here the Ministry of Defence has said that this is classified information. They have wanted to give a different and shorter version of what might be publicly related to this. I don't think this means that the government gets less criticism – I think we've had a lot of criticism in the last few days. It actually makes this whole situation a little bit more difficult for the government, because there's a rug of suspicion over why this is. But it is the Ministry of Defence's opinion that the information contained in the summary of national audit can't be downgraded either.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e254	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e259	Two days in a row, the NRK has had critical news items about foetal reduction or ‘twinning away’. Yesterday, it was reported that the lay at St. Olav's Hospital, which is the only one that can carry out twins away from Norway, has sent a letter to the Health Directorate asking for the Justice Department to review the abortion regulations. It's because of ethical discussions in the professional community. Section meeting Torbjørn Eggebø says to the NRK: ‘The Lawyers of the Ministry of Justice have interpreted the wording of the abortion law carefully but have not considered medical-technical matters.’ Today we hear that the leader of the Ethical Council in Denmark argues against Norwegian practice and expresses surprise at the liberal interpretation in Norway. Since the Law Department in the Ministry of Justice of Norway interprets abortionlova, the Ethical Council in Denmark conducted a hearing on the same practice should be introduced in Denmark. The conclusion in Denmark is different from that in Norway. ‘We believe that there is a difference between killing one fetus and interrupting the entire pregnancy.’ That's what the leader of the Ethical Council said in Denmark. I want to make it clear that this question does not apply to sick fetuses. I think there are a lot of people who experience this as a difficult value question. The conclusion of the government has been to open up to twins away from one or more healthy fetuses. My question to the Prime Minister is: has this been a purely statutory assessment of abortion laws, or has it been an ethical assessment of whether we should say yes or no to twins away in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e280	This is an ethically difficult matter. This is a matter that has been lying for many years without having been treated. This government thought that we actually had to do a treatment of it. We then asked the Ministry of Justice's law department for an assessment of today's abortion law to look at the legal basis for foetal reduction also in the case of twin pregnancy. The law department's review of the abortion law, which is a legal review of the requirements imposed by the abortion law, said very clearly that today's law allows for this to be done. It is not possible to interpret the law to that effect that the twelve weeks of self-determined abortion are a restriction in view of selective abortion on one of two twin fetuses. So it's not a political or ethical treatment in the government, it's an understanding of the law of the day. The alternative would have been that we had to promote a new amendment to the abortion law, and that has been decided by the government, and we don't want to do that to prevent this. I also heard about the posted ones, among others. with Professor of Ethics Berge Solberg, who spoke, among others. on the medical-ethical issues related to the difficulty of implementing this type of abortion in a form that was safe for the second foetus before reaching 12 weeks. Then it is important to be aware that the third paragraph of the abortion regulation says that self-determined abortion can also be carried out shortly after 12 weeks, if there are medical-technical reasons that make it impossible to do so before. It has been interpreted as allowing, within the self-determined abortion provision, intervention in the 13th week of pregnancy to be carried out in this context. It is also evident from the guidance provided by the Abortion Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e289	I want to thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Prime Minister emphasises that this is a very difficult ethical issue. Then I am probably surprised that the government has chosen to make this a purely legal question about how to interpret abortion laws. Abortion laws came many years ago, and we have had a technical development that means that the promise is not as modern as it should have been. There's been a development here. We know that in 10-15 pst. Of the cases, the other fetus could also lose the life of a twin away, and that's why there's such a big discussion now in the professional community. So my question is, when a purely technical and legal assessment has now been made, will the government also make an ethical assessment, a political assessment, of such a question that, as the Prime Minister says, is so ethically demanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e296	I would like to stress that although it was a legal assessment of the abortion law, it was also an ethical work that was the basis for the law department's work. The Health Directorate has obtained information on the medical conditions related to foetal reduction, and there were organized trade meetings and meetings with the professional communities, where both the Medical Ethics Council and the Medical Ethics Centres participated in that process, and all the minutes and views were presented to the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice in that assessment. What is our opinion is that we had to change the law and, if necessary, make exceptions and restrict women's rights in the first twelve weeks, if we weren't to do so, and the government didn't want to do that. That's a big ethical question. The big question of abortion and self-determined abortion is who is going to make the ethical assessment. Should the woman and the family do that? Are those who are best to make those decisions, or are there any others, outside, who are going to do it? That choice I think is quite clear in the beginning, that women themselves make ethical, moral assessments of these questions, and then it is important that everyone is well informed, also about the danger of complications.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e303	It opens for follow-up questions – first Marie Liones Breek.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e308	What we often refer to as the Abortion Act is called ‘law on Abortion’. How does the Prime Minister think that killing one or more children, but continuing pregnancy, can come under this law? And what does the Prime Minister think about Norway becoming a country to which women come to carry out these abortions, because they are illegal in our neighboring country?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e313	The question of whether this is part of the law is precisely what I have explained, namely that the Ministry of Justice has been assessed in the light of the law we have today, that even the reduction of the unborn child by twin pregnancy is allowed to be self-determined in the first twelve weeks, and that one can then decide to do so. So I kind of think that's legally clear. I don't think it's good if we import people from other countries to come and have selective abortions carried out in Norway of this kind, related to foetal reductions. It's a difficult ethical question, but the basic theme is of course: do we think that the ethical assessments are best done by a denominator, or do we think they are best done by a woman? I think we have the answer for the first twelve weeks, that a woman and the family make the best choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e320	Torgeir Micaelsen – to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e325	I am pleased that the Prime Minister agrees with me and the Labour Party on these questions and has stood firm on a matter that is ethically difficult for many. It's also for me. I remember the first time I heard about -- what should I say -- this opportunity, and I knew right away that it pushed in me, because it's a very intolerable thought for many of us that you have to go to the step of taking abortion in itself, but also to go to the step where you have to remove one or more fetuses and go on pregnant with those who are left. The Prime Minister is right – when we in Norway have chosen to have a self-determined right to abortion, we must also respect the fact that there may be many reasons for what is the personal reason why you choose to do what you do. I would therefore like to say that I now urge everyone to be sober in this debate. What the Prime Minister might have been able to inform the Storting about is: Is it true that there is no occasion for foreign women to come to Norway and get this done on their behalf, as some have suggested? I can answer my own question, because that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e332	It is good that the questioner could answer his own question. We don't have a publicly funded health service because people can come from other countries and get intervened or get help. It requires quite specific decisions if this is to happen. Then there's an access to some areas for some to contribute and pay for it, but it's very little use in public health, and it's not a natural part in this area. I fully agree that this is perceived as ethically difficult, and it is – I think – incredibly important in such a context that you get good information, that you meet health professionals who can talk about risk, and that you can have the conversation that makes you know that there is a risk to the other fetus if this happens. But basically, it is ultimately a responsibility that must always be with the woman in these first twelve weeks, I believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e340	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e345	There is not one single country in Europe that has stated that the right to self-determined abortion implicitly means that individuals are entitled to foetal reduction. In Norway, we have allowed this practice by allowing the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice to interpret this and make the ethical assessments without giving us a case for the Stortingen to do so. Now, the scientific community calls for caution, because what the government has decided is forcing games to enter too early, so that the risk of the remaining fetus becomes incredibly much greater. Can the Prime Minister live on the fact that the government has taken a decision without involving the Storting, which the entire professional community is very critical of?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e352	There's been an interpretation of what the law of the day is, and the government has decided that we don't want to propose changing the law of the day. It's free up to the Storting to make proposals to change today's law, and get a majority for it, but I feel that what we've done has a broad majority in the Storing. I assume that all parties can make ethical assessments without the government sending messages to the Stortingen related to these questions. Since we do not propose any changes to the law, I feel that we have a majority behind us – when we have no wish, from a majority on the Stortinget, to make these changes. Then I agree that these are difficult ethical assessments for those who work in health care. But I heard a statement yesterday that was about the transition around the 12th week and the medically sound, and as I pointed out, according to the abortion regulation, it is possible to carry out self-determined abortion any later than the 12th week, just for medical reasons. It will be possible and an assessment that can be made by the doctors and by the individual abortion seeker.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e359	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e365	In the last year, I have traveled and visited defence bases all over the country. I've had the pleasure of talking to and learning from soldiers and adding to the Defense, which all burns for the Defense and ultimately is willing to sacrifice their lives for their country. What strikes me is the despair and despair of the people of the Army, the Home Office and the Coastal Defense over the government's defence policy. The Right Communication Department is trying to sell the construction of the Army, the demolition of the Home Guard, the decommissioning of the Sea Home Guard, the abolition of coastal corvettes and the decommissioning of the Andy Island Air Base and the helicopter base on Bardufoss as a historic defence effort. As well as all the solar data I'm talking to, either shake your head or tear your hair. Despite the fact that at the last national meeting, the Right decided that they would in the long run increase the rights of the Defence to 2 pst. of GDP, in line with the Prime Minister's promise at the NATO meeting in Wales, both the Prime Minister and I know that with the long-term plan they submitted last year, guaranteed will not achieve that goal. One consequence of the weak long-term plan is that there is not enough money for investment in the Army, which the government itself thought was absolutely necessary half a year ago – a long-term plan that Right broke the settlement negotiations four years ago, because one should be much more committed to land power. One of the many decisions that have weight despair is the closure of the airbase on Andeya. A Consolent Committee concluded last autumn that the government would return to the Grand Duchy if there were substantial changes in the decision-making basis for Andy Island. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that the cost estimate for Andøya and Evenes is correct? If the Prime Minister cannot guarantee the cost estimate, will he follow up and make sure that the government returns to the Stortinget with up-to-date figures in the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e374	The government presented a long-term defence plan adapted to the new security policy challenges, which meant changes in structures, but which was also a massive increase in defence efforts in the years to come. The government has already begun the increase and investment in the budgets that we have behind us, and we now have a significant increase in the budget in the years to come. I respect the fact that other parties may believe that there are other objectives and other areas of defence to be given priority, but we have followed the defence policy council we have received from our most important advisers, the Chief of Defence Staff, for how the main priorities should be for shaping the defence of the future. In one area, we have said that we need longer time, and that is why we are conducting a land-use study to review the future structure and location of both the Army and the Home Office. But that doesn't mean that there's no investment money for example. Army in the long-term plan. That's it, it's committed to significant investment in the Army, also in the priorities that have been made. It is also the case that we increased the number of civil protection forces beyond what was the professional military council, because we thought that civil society assistance could require more of it, and that we wanted to have a greater degree of robustness. What happens this year is that the first steps on this are now being experienced. We fill in, we practice more, we ensure that there is more robustness in our entire defence structure, and we also have good experience from that. Now we're practicing in a way that we haven't done in the Defense for a long, long time, and we see, for example, that the Marine has a much stronger operational capability than they had when we entered the government offices. As for new estimates, we don't have any new estimates now, but we're going to follow up on Storting's desire to get feedback on these issues as we move on to the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e385	The last two days of hearing have shown that the government is now building down the Home Office – 6000 will be disarmed, and one is already moving into the vessels of the Maritime Protection Agency – is not the way to go. In order to cover the lack of funding and weakening of the Army and the Home Office in the long-term defence plan, the government was given a land selection, including the Prime Minister. The mandate of the selection is to be within the economic framework of the 20-year perspective underpinned by the land authority in the long-term plan. So one's building down the Homeland Protection Agency, one's putting down the Maritime Protection Agency, and it's a big worry. Can the Prime Minister cancel the leak that the whole purpose of the estate is to merge the Army and the Home Office? Can she guarantee that it's not the intention of the government, and so maybe calm down a lot of the turbulence that's now around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e390	For the government there is no lead that there should be a merger of the Army and the Home Office. You have to look at how to use our land forces as efficiently as possible and as efficiently as possible. All we do about the defense is to get as much defense as possible. We have to see how we use these forces together, how they work, how well they're trained, and what equipment they have. That's how you can have a lot of people, little equipment and bad practice. For many years on paper, we've had a lot of people in Homeland, but they haven't been trained. In 2009, no part of the area structure was trained at all. Then Liv put Signe Navarsette in government and did not retrain the Home Protection Area structure at all. Now we've trained this considerably to make sure it's functional. I fundamentally disagree that yesterday’s hearing showed that what we have is a danger in the future in terms of security needs. We have better trained forces, more trained forces, which will be more accessible and will be able to do a better job than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e397	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e402	The Agder County and Rogaland Home Guard, HV-08, get the biggest cut from the government. Almost half of today's soldiers in HV-08 are missing. Large areas will stand without home protection, so important goals will no longer have to be protected by Home Security. 2 800 motivated soldiers are told to bring in uniform and weapons. This is a real human being, not a human being that only exists on the paper. The size has said that one should wait for the land bill. Despite this, work has been done to cut the HV-08 in full. My question to the Prime Minister is: Will the Prime Minister stop this process until the Landmaktaugration is dealt with by Stortinget, as Stortinget has requested?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e409	It is such that the Storting has adopted a reduction in the spatial structure's plan from 42 000 to 35000 people. This is to be implemented gradually, but we maintain the level from 2016 also in 2017. It's important to remember that we've been given a professional-military advice on what's the threat and our challenges in the future, given different scenarios. That's where we're going to optimize the use of the money we have, and the resources we have within the public sector. We have chosen by the government to propose to Stortinget that we have a slightly larger protective structure than the defence chief's recommendation. And we've been busy – from the time we got into government, when changes in the revised national budget already in 2014 – securing more money for exercises, just to train not least the effort forces, which have not been trained or used for a long time. Having a shelter that doesn't train and doesn't practice is at least wasted resources. This government has done something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e419	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e425	The government wrote in the long-term plan that it would not be cut in the number of HV soldiers, but that it would reduce the target numbers from 42,000 to 35,000 to adapt the area structure to the real situation. Now the big cut is going on all over Norway. When we agreed with the government, we were busy increasing the funds for Home Affairs, so that there was more time for practice. One of the central tasks of Home Security is the protection and security of military and civil objects and infrastructure, object protection. Will the Prime Minister, in the light of the National Audit Office’s observation of very serious deficiencies, now increase the number of Home Guard soldiers?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e432	I believe that object protection is not primarily about Home Protection, but Home Protection is doing a good job within parts of the object protection. As I also said several times during yesterday's hearing, you secure objects in a lot of different ways. We have had periods when measures have gone into and out of these object protection lists, depending on what other alternative methods you have. For example, when we switch to digitizing and using other methods, for example: on a part of monitoring, intelligence and communication installations, the need to secure antennas and others will be reduced. So it's a very dynamic picture, and it's not like I think yesterday's hearing or the Riksrevision's report suggests that we should increase the number of Homeland soldiers in Norway. But I think it's very important that the soldiers we have, whether they're Home Security or others, are well-trained, have good material and know how to solve the problems. That's when we get the most effect, and that's what this government has done, as opposed to what the situation was like when we got into government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e437	Hans Fredrik Gruvan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e442	As many have already affected, home protection has been and is strategically located across the country and has been assigned a central role in the work on object protection as part of preparedness. However, in the field of law enforcement, there are strong concerns expressed by several highly qualified teams that the mandate does not address sufficiently the challenges identified by the National Audit Office’s criticism of object protection. Therefore, my question is: can the Prime Minister promise that, in the future, there will also be sufficient volume and equipment for the tasks assigned to HV to be carried out in a credible way in terms of object protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e449	I'm very concerned that we should dimension our forces according to the tasks we're doing them. Therefore, it is quite natural to answer yes to this question. We're going to make sure that we have volume to cover the problems that are. Then I have recorded that through the consultation there has been a major focus on the role of Homeland Protection in terms of object protection, they have an important role to play. But if anything happens, the first response is the police, not the Home Office. There are also often other services that need to be quickly out in a type of crisis and conflict. Home Security has a function, which was also well described, which is an important part of the long-term plan, and for the first time has a separate chapter on the defence contribution to civil society, where also Home Security has many other important tasks. We have to look at the sum of these problems when we dimension the volume of Homeland Protection. That's one of the reasons why we chose to increase the number of Homeland soldiers from what was the defense chief's proposal by 30,000, to 35,000 plus 3,000 intervention forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e456	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e461	We in the Left are deeply concerned about the position of the country power in Norway in the years to come, in particular in the light of the investment decisions made by the government, together with the Workers' Party, in the long-term plan, and not least, as was mentioned here, the move from Andøya to Evenes and the completely unknown costs that lie there, and that this is an automatic down-priority of land power. But now we're going to have a land-use study, and it's amazing with many of the changes that are now taking place at the forefront of it, among other things. what happens to the Protection of the Sea and the Protection of the Home. The Prime Minister earlier pointed out the importance of a professionally-military council, on which there may be disagreements, but it will also be a professionally-military council on the country's power. It is important that we have a public debate, and will the Prime Minister ensure that we have a good public debate, public opinion, about the land-use study, in time and in good time, prior to the decision to be taken in connection with the 2018 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e468	I am absolutely sure that when the land estate comes, there will be good publicity around the discussion. I am absolutely sure that the Storting will have a broad discussion, and that the rest of society will have a broad discussion about the changes that are taking place in the field of law enforcement. When it comes to the question of professional counseling, I want to say that it is now important to think about what crisis and conflict we see for ourselves. The investment decisions that a majority on the Stortinget are behind – about new fighter aircraft, about ensuring that we still have surveillance planes in the north, about making sure that we build new submarines and others that are an important part of the large investment structure – are because we see a risk picture that makes it important, not least the maritime area, that we have control over our coastal space, with maritime strengths, it is important to have control in a given crisis and conflict situation. And so it's that we have to constantly develop Defence with new functions and in new areas, and one of the most important challenges we're going to have in the future is related to cyber and cyber technology, and it's important that we follow closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e477	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e482	In the previous elections, we made a choice to make a teacher's vow. We've done the teacher's vow. It's been a success. Almost all of the teachers who've been through it seem to think that this was very useful, and that they've become better teachers at the other end. But throughout the teacher's promise, there are skills that have had a lot of focus. There is the breaking of read codes and the breaking of math codes. We know that we are now living at a time when populism is emerging in Europe – and in Norwegian policy. We see big changes, so we're going to train students who are going to be able to go into a business and a working life where they're going to help change their own jobs. We see that we are at a time when maybe education and education as history, as a social science, as religious knowledge becomes more important and more important in order to be active citizens of a society. We actually need to build whole people, entire citizens of society, who can participate and participate in the development of society, participate in and change the work they're going to get into, participate in and get new ideas and creativity and use new technology. That's pretty much a requirement. We really should have extended the focus on the teacher's promise not only to skills, but also to a learning perspective and to creative competence. My question to the Prime Minister is: shouldn't we now have a teacher's vow 2.0, which is about raising the education perspective and the creative and the whole human being in our education system?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e492	Firstly, I agree with the representative of Skei Grande that we have implemented the teacher's promise and that it is a success. There are now historically many teachers – we have tripled the number – who have received further education. We have completed five years of teacher training. It also provides room for more subjects and other combinations of teacher training. So I want to say that I very much agree that in today's society it is extremely important to learn critical thinking. Because in the information society that bombards us with different claims and different news, which are both ‘real’ and ‘true’, and with angles and everything else, it is about having a critical sense and a source of criticism, and that it must have as much as possible. But I don't think it's a shame to learn to read and write, because it's the beginning of the whole thing. You don't get much critical thinking about not being able to read properly, write properly, crack the math code or ask questions about technology. So it's important to have a subject focus at the same time. About this means a teacher's vow 2.0: It will be that once we have raised enough teachers through to reach the professional requirements we have, it will also be possible to fill in other things. So I believe that part of the continuing training strategy around the municipalities must also be to fill in the subject content and make sure that we update on new things. And then I mean we also have to work a lot with digitization. The biggest challenge of digitisation and the work with our children in school is the lack of teachers with skills leading to it. But if you ask me what is the most important reform, we launched it on Monday, me and the knowledge minister Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, and it's systematic early action. I believe that systematic early efforts are the beginning of everything. Making sure that 10,000 children do not leave Norwegian school without being able to read, write and calculate so well that they can take part in further education, which is a challenge for the future, is perhaps a task no. one. For the more people with a sense of abstinence because they are unable to participate, the greater the challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e503	Yes, we're happy to see what's in that message and what we can do to make a majority for it here. Over the last few years, we have had a great professional ‘backing’ of teachers: we have a reform of continuing education, we have introduced five-year teacher training, there are many demands for teachers, and we have also raised the requirements for getting into the study. But still, anyone in this country can call themselves a teacher. If you've got a teacher's position, you could say you're a teacher. We have many important professions in Norway that not everyone can claim to have and that are crucial to us. You can't go anywhere and call yourself a doctor, because it's an important profession, which not everyone should be able to claim to be a title. But teachers can all call themselves, no matter how low education you have. My question to the Prime Minister is, Shouldn't we protect the teacher's title?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e510	It is rare that I get questions in the questionnaire that I have not heard or thought about before. I'm going to admit that I got it right now. I have not thought that protecting the teacher's title in itself is a challenge. We have chosen the other way to do it, that is, to say that those who are going to teach our children in a classroom must have certain qualifications in the subjects they have. And then you can be a teacher in many other types of institutions – and work like that. But I want to say that I'm going to meet this with curious interest to see if this is something you need to protect, or if we really reach our goals by just setting the professional requirements, which are done in each school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e515	There will be follow-up questions – first Iselin Nybø.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e520	We agree with the government that we want more teachers, we want many good and motivated teachers into the classrooms, and we want to raise the status of the teacher and the teacher training. The fact that pay also has a meaning to it, there's a lot of people who cheer up. We have made a number of demands over this ageing period for those who are going to be teachers in school: we have introduced a five-year teacher training course, which the Prime Minister was also involved in, we have made demands on the number of study credits to teach Norwegian, math and English in high school and high school, we have set character requirements to enter the teacher's university, and we expect teachers to continue their training and stay up to date on a professional basis. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister agree that increased education and competence should pay off?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e527	I believe that increased education and skills should pay off, and that is by getting higher pay in the tariffs negotiated between the community sector and the teacher’s organisations – also depending on the level of skill you initially have. It has sometimes been pointed out as a challenge – before we made the skill requirements – that some of those who had master’s education experienced that getting a job in some municipalities was more difficult because they actually had higher pay. But first of all, I believe that we should stick to the fact that wages are negotiated between the employer and the employee, and that in the future as well. What we've been working on are the alternative career paths that enable teachers to be teachers, but at the same time experience a career path, and a development in it, which means that you don't always have to be transferred to administrative tasks. In this context, and for those projects, wages and salaries are also linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e534	Christian Thinning Bjørnø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e539	We live in changing times – political, democratic and demographic. The Labour Party will have a strong public common school and not least teachers who are both professionally solid, good at learning away and to interpret the news picture and the society in which we live, along with the students. But unfortunately, progress is in the wrong direction. There have been no more unqualified teachers in Norwegian school in 15 years. Since primary school teacher education was established in 2010, there have also been few students attending and wanting to teach at primary school. We're about to make teacher education five years old and master's education, but we're still worried about recruiting. These are serious figures on the vagaries of the Prime Minister's reign. It is with impatience that I ask the question: When should the government's alleged commitment to teachers really produce results?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e544	It produces results every day in the classrooms where teachers who have been in continuing education and who have new ways of working with their subjects. Because we make such a big deal, there will be a lot more temporary courses and people who are unskilled, who are in periods, but part of the big promise, that we systematically ensure that you receive further and further training as a teacher, increase respect for that subject. The fact that we have increased the intake requirements makes it hopefully less likely to fall out of the education cycle, and it also helps to lift it. This is a strategy to increase respect for the teaching profession, to raise the level of competence for the teaching profession, but the results will be read when we see the students who leave the school they are now in, at their professional levels. Investing in people is among the most important investments that take the longest time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e549	Anders Tyvand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e554	I think the Teacher Lift 2.0 is a good idea. We have just completed a renewal of the Knowledge promise, i.e. We have dealt with it in Stortinget, and the government is doing that work. There Christian People's Party was given, among others. I believe we're going to implement a valuelift at school. We need to raise the values more clearly in teaching. We're going to focus our education perspective more on what we're doing today. But for us to succeed in that, it's important that teachers have the skills to do so. In that case, it must be able to take part in teacher training. Then I might feel that the government has a slightly different focus on teacher training. For example, you now have to have the fourth grade in mathematics to get into the teacher's study, even if you're not going to teach mathematics. Even those who are going to teach and study the classical education subjects are now first and foremost measured by the math character. Does the Prime Minister think that there is a good strategy to give greater emphasis to education in teacher training and in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e562	It is very important that students meet qualified teachers who can help them crack the codes in the important basic subjects. One of the challenges we face in our country is poor math skills, among other things. Algebra skills. Even though they're getting better, we're bad in algebra. It goes in circles. In 2008, a major teacher competence and exercise study was carried out which showed that Norwegian teachers who taught mathematics cut poorly in algebra. When they cut bad in algebra, the students also cut their bad in algebra. That means you have to have a certain depth and understanding, and one of the subjects of teacher training where there has been a large percentage of ironing has just been math. I'm always going to defend that we're setting that character requirement, because I think it's incredibly important that the teacher who's teaching in that subject, actually himself has understood the subject, and I think it will do something about the ironing percentages. It is not to be demeaned that we should have a good education perspective for the rest. We have to work on that. When we have five years, we also have more room to immerse ourselves in more themes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e567	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e572	I share the government's goal of early work and the emphasis that all children in Norwegian school get a well-qualified teacher. So it's just that the proportion of unskilled teachers has increased by almost 40 pst. under this Government. Does the Prime Minister think this is a successful teacher's promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e577	The government's teacher's vow is to raise the further education of teachers, and we have three times as many in further education every year now as it was under the previous government. The government’s teaching commitment was to make more stringent professional requirements, to provide new career paths and to raise five-year master’s education. We've done all of that. For a period of time when people go on education, it's going to be a little less educated, and then maybe it'll be filled up with unskilled teachers. Then it's important that we build a significantly higher level of the teachers who are in the classroom over time, and that requires investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e582	We move on to the next main question – from Audun Lysbakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e587	Tax evasion undermines the welfare state and the income of the community and is a blow to Norwegian industry and labour. When people from the economic elite move their money out of the country to avoid paying taxes, they in many ways turn their backs on the community. Money that disappears, could go to health, to people who have little, or to teachers' level, that we just talked about, and it also has the consequence that others have to contribute more, because someone with a lot does not choose to contribute. If we're going to do something about this, we need international cooperation to prevent tax competition. We politicians must also show our attitude. So I wonder, what has the government done to prevent tax evasion, and what is the Prime Minister's view of tax refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e594	People moving out of the country to avoid paying taxes are unfortunately something happening. I have seen it in my hometown over many years that there are people and families who have moved out and still do business. I am pleased that the business continues to operate in Norway and creates ring-effects and jobs. If I ask about the main reason they're moving out, it's that they feel they'd have to clear the business so much through the tax rules that it would be difficult to implement housing. It is one of the challenges in our system that people move out of the country based on the fact that we have special tax rules that make it difficult for them to take care of the jobs in Norway. I agree that tax competition is stupid, so I bring this up very clearly in the international forums. I say it every time I'm out, I say it both in terms of the state of development, and I say it in terms of our countries. I was therefore also clear that although we have reduced corporate tax, it was not our main priority, but something we have to do to be competitive with neighbouring countries, and we have to do it in a room that makes us competitive for investment in the future. But that's not something I'm applauding, because that's a result of many countries now reducing the taxation of companies. So it's a challenge – and we have to do this at European level – and it's working more to get the big multinational companies to actually pay taxes, to participate in the country. That is why it is a clear message I have in every context where I also meet international businesses in relation to sustainability goals, that it is important. When they ask what they can contribute, I always answer: they should contribute to paying taxes to the countries they are in, they should contribute to being non-corrupted and paying taxes, because that is what helps to create the basis for development in developing countries. In this way, it's not different from us, but we need more international rules related to this. Some of the things that are good, and what it's been working through the OECD, are much more transparent about tax rules and placements. Panama Papers had a good effect on it, it became very fast that Panam also signed up and had openness about... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e603	That was a clear message, and although we disagree on fiscal policy, we obviously agree on tax refugees. But that's why I have a follow-up question. On the party financing page.no, a few insights into who gives money to the parties' election struggles, and with it both who supports the various parties, and from whom the various parties agree to receive support. It turns out that one of the Right Donors for the 2017 election campaign is a person who lives abroad and makes no secret that it is to let go of paying taxes to Norway. To VG in 2008, this person said, as a reason why he had moved out of the country, that his new home country has the best framework conditions for business activities, and that there is no tax on income, capital income or wealth. Does the Prime Minister really think it is right that her own election campaign is financed by someone who has moved his money abroad in order not to contribute to the community she owns?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e610	There may be many motives for moving abroad. Among other things, I have quoted the motive I have heard in my hometown, which is also the representative of Lysbakken's hometown, from some of those who own companies, that they have moved abroad with the family in order to be able to operate business also on the basis of Norway, because if not you would have emptied the companies too much in wealth tax. The wealth tax also creates the movement of people, and it is a challenge that I think the left-hand side of Norway should look at more. I believe that long-term, present capital is incredibly important also for the development of industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e615	It opens for follow-up questions - first Snorre Serigstad Valen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e620	Is it common in European context that a government party receives large sums of money for the election campaign of tax refugees, and does the Prime Minister know any other examples in Europe that this has happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e626	I do not know which person it is, and I do not know what amount it is. I'm not going with...
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e631	That's not what I asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e636	No, but I don't know what the rules are in other countries either. But contributors who are citizens living in other countries will probably be able to find out in several other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e641	Truls Wickholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e646	Interestingly, the Prime Minister has no active relationship with whom she receives money to implement her policy. But part of this picture is also a government that may not have been so active in combating tax refugees, tax evasions, as it could have been. The majority decided in 2015 to set up a ownership register to get a register of actual, real, owners. We still haven't seen anything like that. The follow-up to the points of the tax settlement to prevent large multinational companies from exploiting our tax rules is also not followed up to the extent that it could have been done. What does the Prime Minister think of her now, in the light of what former representatives here are referring to, being also seen as a prime minister who just doesn't have an active relationship to fight tax refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e651	I think I'm going to be perceived as a prime minister who has an active relationship to fight tax refugees. I think all of my colleagues who hear me keep posts internationally, know we do. We are also working on the follow-up of a register – it is a complicated and difficult question of how to do it, and therefore it requires a lot of work to do – and we are working on all the follow-up to the tax reform and the decisions taken to find out good practices. However, it is difficult for an individual country to have its own rules relating, for example, to: how to tax multinational companies etc. Very often, what concerns these issues needs to be done in an international context, for example. through work in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e656	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e661	The International Energy Agency, IEA, and the International Renewable Energy Agency, IRENA, have just presented a report entitled ‘Perspectives for the energy transition: Investment needs for a low-carbon energy system’. The report reviews how the world needs to develop its energy systems in order to achieve the two-degree target and the 1.5-degree ambition to which Norway has joined. Both agencies strongly recommend that the G20 countries should soon become friends with fossil energy and stress the significant economic benefits of a rapid transition to renewable industries, while stressing the very great need for international investment in renewable energy. In this situation, the government of Norway is doing the opposite. The Minister of Oil Søviknes has said something in the direction of the fact that it is now time to talk, and for the 24th round of the concession, the announcement of far more than 100 new exploration sites plus TFO areas has been announced. This is – as far as I can see – the very opposite of what the International Energy Agency and the International Renewable Energy Agency recommend. Does the Prime Minister think that these two agencies are completely wrong in their analysis and recommendation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e670	The report with contributions from IEA and IRENA states that in order for us to be able to limit the temperature increase to well below two degrees, it will require major conversions within the energy field. At the same time, it states that the world will also need oil and gas in 2050, among other things. because gas is needed to replace coal and because it contributes to flexibility in the power sector, while oil above this time horizon cannot be replaced in many areas. These are images from the same report from which the representative Hansson has now referred. According to the report, fossil energy sources — especially gas — will also be needed after 2050. Fossil energy sources will then cover around 40 pst. of energy demand, i.e. about half of today's level. So it's not that there won't be any need for it, or that it's not possible to adapt within a level of well below two degrees. Norwegian petroleum production has low emissions. It plays an important role in European energy supply. Gas to replace coal is a fast and efficient way to get large emissions cuts, and it is part of the solution for European countries to achieve their climate targets. So I believe that gas is going to be an important part of security of supply, in support of non-regulatable, renewable energy sources, such as wind and sun. In the case of oil, the report stresses that investment in new expansions will be important because production in existing fields is falling more than demand. So I don't think there's any basis for saying that there's any contradiction between what we're doing in terms of new search sites or new fields in Norway, and the report that came from IEA and IRENA.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e681	The Prime Minister is quite right that the report points out that there will be a need for oil, in the order of 40 pst. of today's demand, in the future, and that it refers to gas. What the report says about gas is that it strongly recommends that the export and use of gas take place with carbon capture and storage, and that is not at all part of the price picture or plans for Norwegian gas exports. In the case of the remaining 40 to 45 pst. of the oil that the world is supposed to need, there is a problem that it is happening in a market with a high oil surplus, and that there are many actors who want to deliver that oil, including many countries that have not contributed to climate change at all today, and who have not made any money on oil at all, unlike Norway, that have contributed enormously to climate change and earned enormous profits on it. Does the Prime Minister feel that it is completely irrelevant to introduce some form of justification, historical and political, into the assessment of who is going to produce the last oil?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e690	I think we need to base the main objectives, which are the climate objectives. And if we have the best technology, with the lowest emissions -- we have some of the lowest today, and we're still going to focus very strongly on having low emissions on the road -- there will be room. So it's important to remember that Norwegian oil and gas industries are going to be smaller in the coming years. It's going to be found less, it's going to be more expensive to develop. But the question is, are we still going to let development go down slowly, or are we going to hurry it up? I believe that there is room also in the perspective drawn up here, so that we can make sure that the change that is taking place in Norwegian oil and gas industries does not happen in a politically controlled faster way, but on the contrary by opening up new areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e696	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Anna Ljunggren.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e701	Norway is in a special situation because we have nearly 100 pst. renewable energy. We know that the world will demand more renewable energy in the future. Norway can produce new renewable energy to a greater extent than what we are doing today. We can export something, we can use something in increasing industrial production here in the country. The most effective way, as I see it, to increase the production of renewable energy in Norway is to reinvest in existing hydropower plants. Does the Prime Minister think that this should be pursued in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e708	Yes, I believe that reinvesting in existing hydropower is an important measure, in addition to what we are doing now in dealing with exciting new forms of energy: wind power and offshore wind power. There is a lot that will be energy suppliers in the future, where we have space and technology to make exciting solutions. Reinvesting in existing hydropower is important, but it must be done in accordance with commercial rules. We must be able to bear this in the future – in terms of price. If we are to export renewable energy, we must build more cables, and I have not heard that the Workers' Party has been strong spokesmen for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e715	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e720	The government, with the Left and the Christian People's Party, has spent weeks traveling around with leaks from the coming news of the National Transport Plan. So far, the leaks have raised more questions than answers, and many have been a little disappointed. The timing of the railway operation proved to hold little new, but the more releases: the Ringerix Railway has been delayed, the InterCity routes have been delayed, the Trunder Railway has been delayed, the Arna–Stanghelle is delayed. According to the Prime Minister, the project Arna–Stanghelle is a priority in the NTP. At the Arna station, the Prime Minister said that ‘development has put this project in line in the future due to racial and serious road accidents’. The truth is, the project has come further in line. The transport modes proposed to start in 2021. Now the project has been postponed to 2024. This release has strong reactions. I understand that. I'm from the county myself and get a lot of recordings from people who sometimes run the route, both by train and by road. So the government in its press conferences has boasted of having concluded an agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party on the National Transport Plan. But on March 19th, we can read in Bergen's Official Journal that the leader of the Christian People's Party, Knut Arild Hareide, and the vice-leader in Left Terje Breivik, both stress that the National Transport Plan is not dealt with in the Stortinget, and that the hope of advancing the project is not out. Once again, we feel that this government has contributed to creating confusion and uncertainty about important issues. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore whether she herself will also be working for the previous launch of the project Arna–Stanghelle, or whether the agreement between the government and the cooperation party on starting in 2024 is established?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e731	The new single railway tunnel project and the Arna–Stanghelle road project is a project that will be included for the first time in the national transport plan this time. It is not a project that has previously been part of any national transport plans. It is true that when the government made the choice of K5, it was clear that there was a new choice to build a safe and completely new road rather than the one they have actually patched up now since it was opened in 1992 and that has proved to be more and more racist. There has been a lot of investment to make the road safer at this point in time, but this government made the choice that we actually have to build a whole new one. We decided that in December 2015. In connection with the fact that Ketil Solvik-Olsen and I, the Minister for Transport, visited a racial accident on the road, we were also asked when we could have started, and what he said then, was that provided that there was local regulation, that the costs and planning of the project went as it should, one could have started in 2021. It is true that in the ground material from the floors there has been an early start, in line with this. However, it has been shown that the premise for what the Minister for Transport said – that the costs and planning of the project should go right – is not correct, because now the cost estimate has increased by 4 billion. kr, the State share has increased by 3 billion. kr, due to error of calculation of the toll project contained in the underlying material from the various floors, and the estimate of costs has increased by a total of 7 billion. kr. Of course, it has implications for how to implement a project. But I'm concerned that we're going to build this road as fast as we can, and I think it's interesting when the Christian People's Party and the Left say they're willing to look at new priorities. Then we'll always discuss it with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e744	Thanks for the answer. When the main features of the national transport plan were presented by the government at Oslo S recently, it was repeatedly stressed the importance of listening to the experts’ assessments, and it was established that there were professional assessments on the basis of the priorities. I would therefore like to remind the Prime Minister of what the regional head of Eidsnes in the State Road Administration said when the etats provided their basis a year ago: "We see ourselves starting in 2021, and this year is not random. It is very important that the project be started before the end of the four-year period.» Why did the Prime Minister not think that this professional council is so important anymore?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e756	It turns out – and the road manager has also been out with it – that they made a basic calculation error in their professional basis for us. So that means that this project now has a cost estimate that's increased by 4 billion. kr, where the country's share has increased by 3 billion. kr due to calculation errors related to the tolls. Had it not been for that calculation error, it would have been easier to put it in place earlier in the priorities. The total cost estimate has increased by 7 billion. kr. Many of the road projects show that they are becoming more expensive. Another project that the representative and I are very concerned about, namely the crossing of Björnefjord and E39, has gone from 26 billion. DKK to 43 billion kr, and we have been clear that we need to cut into that project in order to bring it down to something that can be sustainable in the future. We have to focus on the cost bit, but the biggest difference from the 2021s is simply that the basis that the building had was wrong when they put it forward, and they have also admitted it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e765	It opens for follow-up questions – first Eirik Sivertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e770	In line with the national transport plan we have presented, the government has had a desire to reduce the planning time for transport projects. Mostly, it's only been talking so far, but the government likes to pull out two lighthouses – the Ringerix Railway and the Arna–Stanghelle. For Ringeriksbanen and E16 Skaret–Hønefoss, the municipal subplanetary phase was crossed. The same thing happened to Arna–Stanghelle, when according to the government, the projects were in a hurry to be realised. Now we see that even these two lighthouses were not other than card houses. The government is unable to prioritize money for the construction, even when the project was planned. Then my question becomes to the Prime Minister: what is the point of cutting down on planning processes, cutting down planning time, completing planning when you are unable to prioritize money for construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e777	This government has really spent money building roads. We've made changes to the planning processes. Perhaps the most important example of how we work new was not mentioned by the representative, namely through New Roads, who actually shows that roads can be built more profitable, plan faster and implement the portfolio in the future. It is clear that when you get large cost gaps, like what you've got in this project, it's going to be a challenge to get space for everything within a framework. It is enough that if you go through and look at all the national transport plans you have had, there are many projects that are in place but are being delayed, precisely because of cost constraints – areas and other areas that have not been implemented. For example, during the last government period, everything promised in the national transport plan was not carried out, even if it was possible to get into port with the amounts of money promised at that time. That's because sometimes you get that kind of crack.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e785	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e790	It was a strange sight when the Prime Minister stood with representatives from the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party at the Arna station and announced the release of the construction start on new roads and railways from Arna to Voss as a positive newcomer. There's a lot to say about it, but I want to focus on traffic safety today. Councillor Ketil Solvik-Olsen wrote in reply to the representative Kjersti Top of the past week the following: ‘ Several steps have been taken to strengthen road safety and maintenance. [[...]] The results are good. Traffic fatalities have decreased from 18 persons in the period 2008-12 to 2 persons in the years 2013-16.» It's tricking with numbers. From 2001 to 2004, there were also two deaths. And the same thing in the period after. Does the Prime Minister have reason to believe that the State Road Administration's figures on the expected damage costs for two fatalities every year on the E16 Arna–Voss in the K0 option – i.e. not to do anything – are wrong, and in that case what does the Prime Minister think is acceptable levels of fatalities and heavy road accidents on the E16 Arna–Voss?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e802	I believe we have no one to lose. I believe that our zero vision for fatalities in traffic should apply regardless of road traffic calculation in Norway – whether it is urban traffic in Bergen, at E16 or elsewhere. Fortunately, traffic safety in Norway is progressing. Less are killed. Fewer gets hurt. There are several reasons for this. One of them is that there are built new roads. When building a new road, you need to separate traffic so that it doesn't meet – that's important. But the arguments here are about the whole country and the road construction. One of the reasons why we on the Right and the government have been busy building more new roads rather than just repairing old roads is that new roads can provide better road safety. I do not think it is possible to say that it is tolerable with any death on the road. That is why we have also spent money on securing the road, and we have spent money on planning for the construction of a new road.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e807	Audun Lighthouse – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e812	People in Hordaland have reason to be disappointed that what was launched as a celebration of the E16 Arna–Stanghelle and the new Vosebane, was really a postponement. In addition, there has been a case where the government seems to have given the wrong impression, and which is also important for Hordaland and the Bergens region, in addition to the East: the postponement of the Ringerix Railway. It was said at the press conference at Oslo S that this was due to the fact that the trade unions thought they needed more time. Through questions asked by Bergen's Official Journal to the Railway Directorate last week, it was found that this explanation was at best doubtful. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister now: Is it true, as the Minister for Transport said, that the Ringerix Railway was suspended because the agencies said they needed more time, or is it not?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e819	Then we get a last answer today from Prime Minister Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e824	It is fully possible to build some roads and railways faster, but it will cost more money. The Ringerix track is a project that is naturally located from 2021/2022. It requires rational progress in the project: good progress at the cost that is, so you don't spend more money on it. It would probably be possible to do it even faster if you had spent even more money. But we who are concerned that we are going to build a road across the country, must make sure that each project is actually operated in a way that gives the most rational propulsion possible. We are also concerned that projects should be realistic in their implementation, both in budgetary, organisational and market terms. And then a new E16 is to be built on the route Skaret-Honefoss at the same time. There is a joint project between them. The starting point here is enough to defend building the Ringerix track faster, but the most rational implementation of the project is actually beginning in 2021/2022. And then we're going to take into account that we're going to have money on our way across the country. It is an important priority for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e831	Then the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e845	There will be a number of changes in the set question list, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The proposed amendments to today’s Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Kari Henriksen to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Justice and Defence who will direct him. At the request of the Minister for Justice and Security, the question is moved and answered before question 15, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 7, from the representative Ivar Odnes to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment, who has been removed. Question 8, from the representative Hege Haukeland Liadal to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, will be answered by the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who will direct him. Question 9, from the representative Ruth Grung to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be answered by the Minister of Justice and Defence who will direct him. At the request of the Minister for Justice and Security, the question is moved and answered before question 15, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 11, from the representative Ruth Grung to the Minister for Defence, is proposed at the request of the Council of State moved and answered before question 2. Question 13, from the representative Rasmus Hansson to the Minister for Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU, will be moved and answered first in the Questionnaire at the request of the Council of State. Question 17, from Mr Asphjell's representative to the Minister for Justice and Defence, the questioner will not be present.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e868	The first question after these changes is then question 13 from the representative Rasmus Hansson to the Minister for Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU. It must be the longest title in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e888	On 16 March the European Parliament adopted a resolution on an integrated Arctic policy. The proposal for a ban on the extraction of oil and gas in the Arctic was voted down in plenary, but a paragraph calling for a ban on drilling in iced waters remained. We are pleased that a majority in the European Parliament chose to drop an unsound call for a general ban on the extraction of oil and gas in the Arctic. It is, as is known, a broad political outreach that petroleum activity is a key pillar of economic activity also in the north, and that it represents unique opportunities for value creation in North Norway. Fishing, seafood, shipping and the petroleum industry together constitute the backbone of Coast Norway, and – I must be allowed to add – they live well side by side. From the Norwegian side, we have had a dialogue with the institutions of the European Union on the Arctic and the North for several years. Since the northern regions are at the heart of Norwegian foreign policy interests, it is important that we seek understanding of Norwegian views and help to ensure that EU Arctic policy is based as much as possible on knowledge and facts about the situation in the north. We feel that Norwegian views are sought and appreciated, both in the Commission and in the European Parliament. Although the resolution of the European Parliament is not binding on the Member States of the European Union or on the institutions of the European Union, it has been very important for us to contribute to the preparation of this resolution by the European Parliament. We have two main messages. First of all, our north-eastern policy is based on the fact that the Arctic Ocean Law applies. And the second point that has been important to put forward is that we need to have a good balance between sustainable use and protection – proper use, the best protection. We have also worked through political and diplomatic channels to ensure that the resolution to the European Parliament also takes account of Norwegian interests, including: informed of the experience of Norway as a responsible petroleum operator in the Arctic since 1979 and of the rights of coastal States under the Law of the Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e905	I suppose, then, that the formulation of contributing to the European Parliament’s dialogue, or whatever it was now, is a complex way of saying yes – Norway has been doing lobbying in the EU to stop this formulation. Then we can only conclude that when the Council of State is of the opinion that proper use is equal to the best protection, it must also mean that oil operations in the Arctic are the best protection. The Arctic is the world's most affected area of oil production. The fact of the situation in the north is that fishing, settlement, industrial activities, etc., are threatened by the climate change created by the oil industry. Does the Council of State believe that it is right for Norway to travel to Brussels to weaken the development of EU climate policy that has been reflected both in Obama's former Arctic policy and in Canada's previous policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e912	International law and the law of the sea are some of the most important tools we have for operating our activity and settling in the north. This was a long resolution with a lot of points. It said, on the one hand, that the law of the sea should apply. On the other hand, the points that went far beyond the rights of the nation state under international law. For us, it has been important to point out that the law of the sea will apply, the rights of the coastal State will apply. Then it has been important for us to stress that it is the coastal state that will determine what kind of activity it will be in the territories of the coastal state. It was important for us in communication with the EU. Then there's probably a more nuanced picture of whether there's energy production – oil and gas – in the Arctic that threatens climate change. The use of fossil energy is an important part of it. That is where I can agree with the representative. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e919	Any additional questions to the representative Hansson if he wants to?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e924	It was a good reminder, thank you for that! The government has a clear problem in defending today's oil policy from a climate perspective, and that problem is called carbon budget. It's a fact that if we're going to have 66 psts in the world. chance of achieving the two-degree target, we can't emit more than 800 gigatons of CO2 after 2017, and we emit 40 tons of CO2 every year. It gives us like the Earth and humanity about. 20 years again with today’s emissions — while the government in Norway is currently setting a new record of granting permits in the Barents Sea. This is exploration and production that may only start in 15 years, that is, just when oil and greenhouse gas emissions are really going down. Are the Councils of State confident that Norway’s oil plans and the climate policy under development in the EU are consistent?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e931	The answer is yes. The EU will depend on a strong commitment to renewable energy, where Norway is following the programmes, and where we are an important contributor to both technology, that we have a lot of hydropower, and that we are developing wind power. One of the most important issues in the EU is the energy mix that will take Europe and the world from coal – very fossil-based energy – to a cleaner energy in the future. There will be Norwegian gas playing an important role, simply because it's now like wind blowing one day – it doesn't blow the other day. It's like wave power that it's waves one day – it's not waves the other day. Then you have to have an anchor in this to smooth out and get an energy supply that can be there every day. Gas will play an important role for decades to come. Norway's policy here is fully in line with EU policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e937	So we go to question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e945	‘Marriage school educates officers to lead and operate the most modern and advanced systems on board warships, direct personnel in battle and use effective use of power on behalf of the population. How does the Council of State think we're going to be able to maintain the quality of training with a cut of over 500 million. SEK 265 fewer annual works, when training is reduced by one year, and the main savings are to be made within level-forming education, which represents half of the education sector in the total budget of the Defence Agency.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e952	The government will reform the defence education system in a way that both preserves the peculiarity of military professional training, ensures good quality in education and can be adapted to changing assumptions and needs. The ongoing education reform in Defence is a structural and quality reform. It is, among other things, driven by similar processes we have seen in the civil university and higher education sectors, where the aim is to consolidate the institutions and strengthen professional quality through better and more robust professional environments. It also reflects the need to streamline an education system costing 2.5 billion. kr per year. The focus on quality in education must be on all training in defence in the future, not just the training of officers. As the representative is well-known, the officer's role is changing. In the future, officers will focus more on becoming good leaders and, to a lesser extent, on being specialists in all fields. That's the role of the specialists. Tomorrow’s education system must reflect this in a good and forward-looking way. I think it makes sense to look at how education is distributed in Defense today. We have six accredited colleges, with a total of 700 students divided by a number of lines. We also have training at a total of 16 geographic locations. We have ten colleges and six command schools. At the same time, the Deans of the War School in the Dean's Study have determined that over 50 pst. of the subjects in the war schools have clear common features. By organisationally combining the six colleges and command schools, resources can be seen more closely in context. They can be exploited better. It will also provide better and more robust professional environments. In today's fragmented system, with many small trade unions, four out of ten vocational schools have fewer than 20 employees. But it's also the way that the total number of students is taught by about 300 professionals. It gives a ratio between teacher and student of about 2.3. It's a very low ratio. It is also when you compare with other heavy civil professional studies. This has also been a topic related to comparison with others. The police high school has, for example, a ratio of 12. Another central driver is, of course, the current changes in the military order. These changes – both external and internal – require reform of the defence education system. It is to ensure better quality and more relevance in the future. It concerns all the educational institutions of the Defence. In order to ensure quality education both by specialists and by officers, vocational training, which is currently an integral part of the Maritime War School, must also be made more easily available to specialists. At the same time, officer training must focus more on military core competence. This means that the professional part of the education should still have a very central place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e967	First, when we had the reform in the civil sector, it wasn't about reducing the amount by one-fifth. We should actually keep the same framework. In terms of professional training, especially in the various arms fields, you need to be able to act, you need to make decisions in a very short time – you are isolated on a boat. How do you build up the discretion to exercise, both strategically and knowing how to be part of a larger whole, when you're a specialist? The Minister emphasises the military competence. But more strenghtening, more modular education – will it not fragment the whole education and the maturity to be able to recruit future marine soldiers? It's about dealing with some of the most advanced war materials we have. Then you first of all need very good leaders, officers and private people to have that interaction. What quality does the Minister think we should get through this reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e976	Towards the end of his speech, the representative Grung is in the middle of the whole reason for this reform: we need to ensure good quality in education and training in Defence. We're totally dependent on having very good leaders. We are totally dependent on having very good specialists, both because a potential complexity in an armed conflict only increases, and because the complexity of the material to be handled also increases. Therefore, the quality reforms carried out in the civil sector are important. However, it is also important to implement a similar quality reform in the military sector. This is also something the defense chief describes a good part of in his professional military advice. He means, among other things: that it is right to cut down on the length of education and to carry out more of vocational training in the department, so that those who are trained in the defence are given more time in the department — that is, where we need them — while maintaining the quality of education. It is also fully possible – within the measures I have notified here – to do something about improving efficiency, which does not go at the expense of quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e983	But when you're going to cut at the lowest level, where you're going to recruit, where you're really going to lay the foundation for the future warriors, the marine warriors, it's wise to centralize decisions, as you do today – while all the other institutions and professional trainings are looking for closeness to the operative, to those who understand reality, and to the close relationship between the Maritime School and Haakonsvern, which is the Nordic's largest maritime base? Why do you cut those tapes and let this be controlled from Oslo? What plans do you have to transfer more to the civil world? The question I am asking again is: is it wise to have the centralisation and transfer of activity decided to take place in such a short time, until 1 August, without allowing the Maritime War School, which has such good competence, to make its own proposals on how to develop it further?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e990	Here I think there must be a misunderstanding. First of all, it's a full opportunity for everyone to make their recordings. I have now set up a steering group in the Defence Staff, which is currently reviewing how to operate these measures. It uses Defense 2017 on, so that they get a good solution. The second is that there was no bond between the Maritime and Haakonsvern. The Marine War School is just where the Marine War School is. The Chief of Defence retains all responsibility for all education in the Defence and the Border Chiefs are given room in the board of the new Defence College. That means that influence will be good also for the defense officers. At the same time, I think it is important to look more comprehensively at this than just seen per line of defense. We have a lot to learn from the civil sector when we see educational institutions working together on disciplines to get stronger professional environments. A modular training course is not uncommon anywhere. It ensures good quality, and it ensures that we make better use of professional environments and competences than we can do with today's system.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e999	So we go to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1007	‘During the election campaign pre-election in 2013, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People’s Party and the Left together with the Landersförbund of the Houses and promised that the equity requirement for Norwegian mortgage customers would be reduced to 10 p.m. Why has the Council of State made it its battle cause not to fulfill this promise?"
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1014	This is a strange questioning. Housing prices have grown almost continuously over the last 20 years, and household debt growth has been higher than income growth for many years. Since 2013, the debt of households, measured as a share of their disposable income, has increased from 222 pst. to 230 pst. It is a high level both historical and compared to other countries. Housing prices have risen sharply, and price growth has recently been particularly high in the Oslo area. The growth of housing prices increases the debt of households and at the same time poses an increasing risk of financial instability. These are factors highlighted by both the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Bank of Norway and by international organisations such as the IMF and the OECD, as one of the main vulnerabilities of the Norwegian financial system. This government considers it important to have a framework of bank mortgage practices that best contributes to the good and stable development of the Norwegian economy and flexibility – and to the continued provision of housing loans to those who are able to operate loans. In addition, the government has implemented a number of simplifications, so that new dwellings can be built cheaper and faster than before, and we now see that the housing market responds with record-breaking start-up of new dwellings. It's very joyful. We have put forward a housing strategy, and we have carried out significant simplifications under the direction of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, which deliver results, and perhaps some of the most important things we do, is to facilitate the balance between supply and demand in the housing market. However, it takes time before measures on the supply side have a full impact on the development of the housing market, and therefore the government first adopted a temporary housing loan regulation in the summer of 2015, and then, in December 2016, a new temporary housing loan regulation. There is an intention to combine clear frameworks for bank lending practices with flexibility that was not incorporated into the housing loan guidelines. The aim is to contribute to a more sustainable development of housing prices and debt, while not closing sections of the population off the housing market. Young people who are older should still have the opportunity to achieve the housing dream, and that is the fact that we have incorporated a significant degree of flexibility, which means that customers with limited equity should also have the opportunity to obtain loans. So, for example, a newly-trained initial-stager who has good income prospects to refer to must be able to obtain loans in this market, and I have arranged for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1027	This was a very long explanation and in no way an answer to my question. I think the finance minister had earned to be honest here. Young people who want to enter the housing market see that the election promise was broken, and that it has now only become more difficult for them to reach the housing dream. I might have to remind the finance minister what her own party said before the election, that one, provided a civil majority, would lower the equity requirement to 10 pst. So it's a numerical fixation. This was in September 2013, and only a few months went by – February 2014 – until the Minister of Finance cancelled that one would do something about this at all. It was an impressive reverse operation in record time, and the reasons one here uses are known factors. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Finance what really changed so radically in the housing market in the months between when the election vow was given and when one had to go away from it? Or did she already know before a gave this election promise that one wasn't going to do any things with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1036	I disagree that this was an explanation – I rather disagree. We have delivered on what was the main intention of the promise we made before the elections, namely that we should ensure that young people in the start-up phase should have access to the housing market. It has become considerably more demanding for many because housing prices have shot speed. Therefore, the measures we have taken on the supply side have been crucial and now lead to new dwellings being built in record traffic and to a reduction in the prices of the smallest housing units. It is a significant contribution for young people to realize their housing dream, which the representative is concerned about. I'm also concerned about it, but then we need flexibility in the mortgage regulation, and we need first of all to facilitate the restoration of the imbalances that exist in the housing market. We have. It is tempting to ask the question back: Why all day long does the Workers' Party ask this question? Is it because they disagree with the flexible housing loan regulation that the government has now implemented, or is it because they disagree with the liberalisations we have made in the housing market?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1041	At the same time, it is tempting to remind the Minister of Finance that this is Storting's Question Time, where the Storting asks and the Minister of Finance answers. And I notice that the Minister of Finance here chooses not to take the responsibility I think she should do when one goes so high before a choice and promises one thing, and then runs away from it. But she has not only run from her own promises, I also think this government has been impressively passive in the broad housing policy. The Minister of Finance is himself responsible for the State budget. There has been a reduction in the lending framework for the Husbank and it has made it more difficult for young people to obtain start-up loans. There is a broad consensus in the Storting about the simplifications that have been made, and it is therefore very unfortunate that one has now made it more difficult for young people to enter the housing market by weakening the House Bank as the important instrument it is. The Labour Party believes that more needs to be done to help young initial start-ups enter the housing market. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Finance whether it is an ideological belief that the market is going to be settled, which stops the government from helping more young people enter the housing market by weakening the House Bank?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1050	I understand that the representative Tvedt Solberg finds it uncomfortable to get questions back from the Minister of Finance, but I think it is relevant to ask: Is the Labour Party in disagreement with the housing loan regulation that the government has now adopted? I understand that the Labour Party obviously disagrees with what we have done for simplifications in the Planning and Building Act and measures on the supply side, but it is therefore the most crucial thing we can do to ensure that more people get into a housing market in a faster and more reasonable way where there has been an explosion in prices. That's why it's important for this government to facilitate that simplification, and we're going to continue to do that, just because it helps to reduce prices over time. We have also facilitated the record-breaking expansion of student housing, which is an important measure in the overall mix of housing markets. So it's not like the government has been passive in relation to this, rather on the contrary. And I have stood upright and taken responsibility for this all the way as Minister of Finance. I have been aware that we must both have clear rules in relation to the practice of banks and at the same time provide sufficient flexibility for young people in the start-up phase who do not have equity when entering the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1057	We then go to question 4, from the representative of Stine Renate Håheim to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, as the questioner in question 3, the representative of Kirsti Bergstø, is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1065	‘Proposals for TEK 17 have been widely criticised in the hearing because the proposal weakens universal design and accessibility requirements in housing. This will mean increased social costs because many will have to move or repair their home if you become dependent on resources. At the same time, the consultation note states that reduced construction costs of TEK 17 are estimated at approximately $100,000 for an apartment of 50 sqm. Can the Council of State guarantee that lower construction costs will always benefit the purchaser of housing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1072	The proposal for new construction technical regulations ensures accessibility. However, I am concerned that we should not have more rules and requirements in the housing construction than necessary. The requirements to be met should be flexible and should facilitate innovation and development in the housing market. We therefore propose several simplifications in the regulations. Changes are made without lowering the size of the turning area, but by providing more flexibility in the rotational area design. The changes are designed to cut the construction costs by between NOK 100000 and NOK 130 000 for the example buildings it is based on. The simplifications in the construction regulations are part of the government’s overall strategy to make it faster and cheaper to build. Housing is now at the highest level in several decades. That shows that the policy is working. Our experience with the previous changes in the construction regulations suggests that builders allow home buyers to benefit from the simplifications. In 2015, we exempted a share of the apartments from availability requirements below 50 square metres. Both OBOS and Selvaag Dwelling state that they have lowered the price of the new apartments as a result. In an article in Today's Business 7 March this year, the price reduction was indicated to be from 150 000 kroner to 750000 kroner per apartment in specific projects. It's a price reduction that means a lot to young first-time buyers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1081	I repeat the question, because I did not get an answer to it: can the Council guarantee that lower construction costs will always benefit the purchaser? I did not get an answer to that. It's interesting to look at the numbers. I was in the SSB earlier today. The price increase in Oslo in the last year is 15.9 p.m., the building cost of the block apartment in the same period of 2.9 p.m., so the price increase is considerably higher than the construction cost. Per Hunter, Managing Director of the Association of Home Producers, was quoted on E24.no on Monday, and said the following: ‘In Oslo, the price growth of apartments has been higher than the growth in construction costs. This has led to good profit for those builders who have previously purchased land and now come with housing». Then my question is: can you guarantee that the housing buyers get cheaper dwellings when the builders are left with the profits?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1095	The considerable pressure on prices in the housing market, especially in large cities, is due to a number of factors, such as: that for too many years it was built too little. This government has done something about it. We have developed tools in the toolbox that make it more built, can be built closer, can be built higher, can be built simpler, and we can get costs down. That's why we see that the housing construction is now at the highest since the beginning of the 1980s. This shows that policy functions and can contribute to a better balance in the market. So I think the representative knows this council so well that she knows that the council rarely uses words like ‘guarantees’, but I refer specifically to examples from, among other things. OBOS; where they have gone in and reduced the price of concrete construction from between 150 000 kroner to 750000 kroner. It means something to young home buyers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1102	Then I noticed that you can't guarantee it. My next question really comes because representatives from the government parties in a debate yesterday in Stortingen said very clearly that it is young people and poor people who get the bill for increased availability. Then my question is, when the Council of State itself admits that this is much more complex than that, what does he think about representatives from the government parties setting up groups that are largely outside the housing market? Does he think it's fair? I also noticed that the Council of State said that the requirements proposed meet the needs for accessibility. Then I just want to quote. Nav says the proposal will have ‘unlucky societal consequences’, Bufdir points out that some of the amendments will lead to a significant dilution of the concept of ‘universal design’, the Health Directorate believes that some of the proposals ‘may have a negative impact on people’s health’, and the Husbank notes that the sum of the changes will be in the way of the government’s own national strategy, Housing for Welfare. Will the Council of State listen to these recordings?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1111	It is common to listen when you have suggestions out for consultation. That's the whole point of a consultation process. But let me just repeat what I also said in my post, namely that the changes are carried out without reducing the size of the turning area, but by providing more flexibility in the design of the turning area. The representative started with a reference to a debate yesterday. I do not like to characterize representatives from either party or other parties, and at least not when I have not heard the debate. What is the government's clear ambition is to have a high standard, but we need to have flexible requirements. For too many years you've lived in the belief that if you just put enough number of demands on top of each other, the quality will be high enough. I don't think it's like that. I want simple, clear requirements that provide quality, but we also have to make sure that we do not have more requirements than necessary, so that we can also bring costs down, which can benefit young home buyers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1118	Then we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1126	This question, from the representative Kirsti Bergstø, will be raised by the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1131	‘More than one TEK 17 hearing body is concerned that the proposals violate the principle of good accessibility and that future housing will not be in line with the political leadership of the Stortinget. How does the Council of State assess this concern?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1138	I can assure the representative Eidsvoll Holmås that the government is taking seriously the availability of the housing stock. In the TEK17 proposal, the requirements for housing to be accessible to disabled persons are continued from TEK10. For the government, it is important that we combine high standards and accessibility with simpler and more flexible legislation. According to OBOS, changes the government has already implemented for the smallest apartments have helped them to reduce the price by several hundred thousand dollars on some apartments. It means a lot to young home buyers. Construction projects listed under TEK17 could contribute to an increasing number of available dwellings. We have consulted some suggestions on how to meet housing availability requirements. So for example, we're suggesting that you pick either the circle of the day or a rectangle that gives you the same swirling possibilities. The rectangle does not give a reduced turning area. I am sure that we will also have good access in the homes in the future. Now we're going through the hearings that have come, and we're going to lay down a regulation before summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1149	We have received a number of concerns from the hearing bodies, and then I wonder: does the Council of State in the further process of this come to listen to the hearing bodies that problematize the availability requirements that exist and the housing quality requirements that are in TEK17? One of the things that is being addressed, for example: by the association of Norwegian architects, that sound quality of living as a common good is at risk of being lost. The question is: When we see that the population is getting older – which is good – and we have a political goal that more people should stay at home for as long as possible, and we want a universal design with good accessibility, will the Council not admit that the proposals that lie here now weaken that availability?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1154	The answer to that question is no. I also disagree with the Norwegian Architects' League that we need state-defined detailed rules in all areas. I have great confidence that both skilled architects and skilled builders will find good solutions. The requirements we set out in the new TEK17 meet the requirements of good quality, of high standards, but we also need to make sure that we have flexibility and that we can help bring down costs. I know the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås as a representative who is concerned about young home buyers, and the changes we have made have contributed to the reduction in the price of many dwellings. Of course, we must listen to concerns and, of course, the Council of State listens to technical advice before drawing the final conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1159	It is great that the Council of State says that he listens to professional advice, but he already rejects a number of the advice and says that they are not correct. I think I'm stupid. Then he repeats what has been mantraed to the state council throughout the period, namely that he does this for young housing buyers. My point is, I wonder, President! When we see what the previous questioner, the representative of Håheim, said, that the growth of housing prices and the sale of new dwellings is rising much faster than the cost of housing is rising, it is quite obvious to everyone who understands the functioning of the market – and it should be thought that the Council of State had some idea of it – that this does not bring about the release that goes on quality and on standard, to which the Council of State puts up and which he believes he stands for, for the benefit of the young purchasers of housing. On the contrary, it comes in the pockets of completely different people, and we get poorer quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1164	State councils may have to be careful about instructing an SV representative on supply and demand, but it is quite obvious that when it has been built too little for too long, it pushes prices up when demand is higher than the offer. We have implemented a number of changes which mean that the supply side has now improved, by building more than it has done in decades. That shows that the policy is working. There will be a gradual improvement in the balance of the market. Then we also have to contribute to having the rules and the quality requirements we need, but no more than that. When OBOS, as a highly trusted institution, also goes into and reduces the price of the dwellings, on the apartments exempted from universal requirements, it shows that they take social responsibility and that simplifications contribute to facilitating the entry of young housing buyers into the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1174	‘The proportion of older people is increasing. About 10 pst. of today's housing stock is deemed to be available to all. It is a political wish that people should stay at home as far as possible in well-organized homes, rather than institutions. Several hearing bodies have responded to the changes in TEK17. In view of this, does the Council of State consider it appropriate to reduce the accessibility requirements of new residential buildings as proposed by the Government?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1181	I agree with the representative, Kjeseth, that there will be a need for more available dwellings in the years to come, so that several older people can live at home as far as possible. As with TEK10, construction projects following TEK17 will make a good contribution to a more accessible housing stock in Norway. While we are providing more available housing, the government believes there is room to simplify the construction regulations. Simplification of rules can contribute to lower costs. However, I would like to stress that we have not proposed changing the requirements of the proportion of available dwellings, and we have not proposed changing the rules on which dwellings must meet availability requirements. The requirements for which dwellings, such as: have a lift, have not been proposed, although investigations show that eliminating this requirement could contribute to significant cuts in construction costs. We have consulted on proposals for some changes on how to meet accessibility requirements, for example: that you can choose between the spin circle of the day or the use of a rectangle that gives you the same spin. I am sure that in future homes we will have good availability.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1194	I thank you for your answer. The wheelchair snuggle is one of the questions that is widely discussed, how spin can be done without one having to claim that snuggle circle, and that rectangle is of course an option. But it's going to be entirely up to the housing producers and the people who build the dwellings to assess it. That rectangle can also give it a turnaround, but the challenge today is that they really don't take into account either one or the other. This is a political question, how do we make sure that it is arranged, and that housing is built that has room for universal design. We see a challenge in Oslo in particular, where fewer and fewer homes are being built for an ever younger, buying-in group that may not need that wheelchair right now, but in the future. So how are we going to ensure this politically, that there is room for a wheelchair that can be turned around, in these homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1201	I fully share the starting point of the representative, Kjeseth. There will be a need for more available apartments and dwellings, and not only for the elderly; it also applies to disabled people, and it may apply to all of us. The life situation may change and it may change rapidly. We have to take that into account. Therefore, we provide more accessible dwellings. What is contained in this proposal is not a change in turning area, but that these requirements can be implemented in a slightly more flexible way than before. And the way we ensure this is simply to set this out in technical regulations, which then have to be fulfilled by those who build homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1208	I'll follow up, because as the Council of State puts up here, it becomes a greater power to the market and to those who produce and build the dwellings, and especially where there is housing pressure. So the question is whether we're actually setting up universal housing construction outside the press areas and outside the city centers. Will the Council of State be satisfied that we have a housing policy that pushes those who need universal design out of the cities and out of the press?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1213	Here I probably disagree with the premise for the question, because the requirements that are being asked apply to everyone, regardless of whether it is in cities or whether it is outside the cities, where there is less pressure. We're going to have high demands and high standards on the dwellings that are being built, but over several decades there has been a development in which one requirement has been imposed on the other. It has gradually become so complicated that it has been demanding to meet all the requirements, and not least it has been expensive. I also know the representative's party so well that I know that the left is also a party that is concerned with simplification. And I think we need to be able to have two thoughts in our heads at the same time: high quality, while we're performing simplification. That's the ambition of what we're doing. We've had it out at the hearing. Then we will review the consultation opinions and the concerns and technical advice before we draw a final conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1223	‘We can read on a regular basis in the media that building new housing in the districts can be unprofitable, as it may be difficult to get the money back on sale. Some places are even more expensive than the value of the house. And that's before you count on the cost of using professionals. When the banks also take low mortgages in the houses, it becomes difficult to build new ones. What will the Council of State and the Government do in order to build more housing in the districts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1230	The main contribution of the government to making housing construction profitable are simplifications in the Planning and Building Act. With simpler planning and building processes and more appropriate technical requirements, we can facilitate increased housing construction throughout the country. The government has also contributed to raising the threshold of objections, which helps to build more dwellings where the municipalities want this. As a starting point, I want to say that we are on the right road in the housing construction in Norway. Statistics Central Bureau reported earlier this year that municipalities in Norway combined to grant start-up permits for 36,203 dwellings. It's the highest number of residential buildings since 1982. The same statistics show that the building number was highest in our largest municipality, Oslo. Here, 4,829 start-ups were granted. However, statistics also show that a total of 403 municipalities gave start-up permits for housing in 2016. These are happy numbers, which show that housing is being built all over the country. Housing prices vary considerably between regions. In some parts of the country, the market value of a dwelling may be lower than the cost of building the dwelling. These are issues we take into account in our housing policy instruments. The bank's loan framework is in 2017 of 18 billion. kr. Through the basic loan, the Husbank has the opportunity to finance the construction of housing in the districts as well. In the districts, the Husbank also has the opportunity to derogate from the requirement of 85 pst. the level of lending, if the ability to pay is satisfactory and the local market for the provision of housing is not working. In the regulation of the Start-up Loan Scheme of the House Bank, it is open for municipalities to provide start-up loans for housing in districts. In the regulation, it is called, among other things, that the municipality can provide start-up loans if ‘the housing situation prevents the possibility of maintaining employment or prevents the development of local business’. Simplifications in planning and building legislation can contribute to reduced construction costs. The government has already provided a number of simplifications, and we continue the simplification work, among other things. by the fact that we have recently been consulted on proposals for a new technical regulation on construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1245	We know that there are some tools that work. In 2012, the Husbank launched the project ‘Dwelling in the districts’ in 12 municipalities, where the tools were grants for housing establishment, but also knowledge sharing on increased housing establishment. It ended in 2014, after only three years of building as many as 284 new dwellings in these municipalities. Grung Municipality was one of the municipalities that participated and experienced large growth in housing as a result of the project, but unfortunately after the project it has experienced stagnation. Why don't the Council of State bet on more of those projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1252	The pilot scheme to which the representative refers was a three-year pilot scheme, and we concluded it, in line with the plans of the previous government. That scheme was not intended to last more than three years. I think we need to be open to consider different arrangements to ensure adequate housing. One of the wishes for measures that I get from the municipalities is that the state has more to accommodate where the municipalities themselves want to build. Among other things, we do. I met that we said yes to several municipalities where the previous government said no, where there were previously objections, and where we now say yes to the municipalities. This means that municipalities, especially in the districts, can better facilitate housing and also make it more attractive in specific areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1259	One of the main tools the municipality has for building housing in the districts is the Husbanken. The government has tightened up the possibility that young people can get a start-up loan from the House Bank, and has also tightened up the framework that the House Bank has. This has led to far fewer receipts of start-up loans now than just a few years ago. What concrete action has been taken by the Council of State to ensure that young people who do not have the opportunity to save in the BSU can obtain loans to buy housing in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1266	The house bank must be primarily a housing social instrument. It also means that we have aligned the start-up loan scheme more closely with housing-social challenges. It's a priority of this government that we should have a high profile in the housing social area. So I believe that the most important thing we can do for young people, both in the city and district, is to provide adequate housing, and we do so, among other things. by simplifying the Law on Planning and Building and Technical Regulations. It helps to build more, as well as reduce costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1277	This question, from the representative Ivar Odnes to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1282	From the housing crisis to the natural crisis. And it's actually just as good – because it's a cross-ministerial challenge we have – that it's the municipal minister who says here: ‘A year has now passed since wild rain in Norway was detected as a result of splendour. This is the first time this serious disease has been detected in Europe and for the first time in terms of purity. A year has now passed since this was known. What has the Council of State done, and what will he do to limit the spread of infection and eradicate this disease before it spreads beyond the North Mountain, which so far is the only area of sprentic disease on clean?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1291	The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has the primary responsibility for animal health and diseases in Norway, while the Ministry of Climate and Environment is responsible for the management of game. This means that agricultural and environmental authorities need to work closely together to gain control of Chronic Waste Disease, the so-called cranium disease, and reduce the risk of infection. As the representative of Ivar Odnes refers to, phantom disease was detected in Norway for the first time in March 2016. Since then, the authorities have taken brain samples of over 11,000 cervids. A total of five cases of the disease have been detected, respectively on three reindeer in North Mountain and two moose in Selbu. Human infections have never been detected, but the disease is lethal to cervids such as elk, deer, deer and reindeer. In addition to sampling, the Food Safety Authority has introduced measures to limit the spread of the disease, such as: a ban on the transport of cervids between the counties and out of the country. In some counties, it is also prohibited to provide feed and towstones to non-infested cervids. In order to prevent the spread of the disease, it is attempted to keep wild reindeer within the northern part of the North-Fjella wild reindeer area. In the winter of 2017, therefore, there has been close cooperation between the State's natural care department locally and Filefjell reindeerlag for monitoring at Rv. 52, in order to prevent wild rain from the North Mountain from crossing the road and entering the areas used by Philesberg reindeer, and to prevent the entry of tamrein into the wild reindeer area. In addition, the SNO has intensified monitoring along fv. 50 to prevent wild reindeer from wandering out of the area southward. The supervision also follows up wildrein along rv. 7 in Hardangervida as part of minimising the risk of spreading to Norway’s largest wild reindeer population. In order to prevent possible contact between the wild rain from the North Mountain and the tamrein in Filefjell reindeer layers, temporary barrier bands have now been set up on some sections along rv. 52, carried out by Filefjell Tamreinlag on behalf of the Environment Directorate. It is also assessed that the permanent installation of the fence is complete. In 2017, further tests from cervids will be carried out, and this will give us a better overview of the prevalence of cranium disease in Norway. The SNO has a close follow-up to wild reindeer and can trap animals that show signs of cranium disease in all wild reindeer areas. It is a particularly low threshold for felling in North Mountain and surrounding wild areas. Elk, deer and deer showing signs of disease may be shared by the municipality and tested for pancreatic disease. In 2016, there were 2 million earmarked. SEK for the follow-up to the findings of wild diseases, and in 2017 it is set at 4 million. kr for follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1308	I am aware of many of the measures taken by the Minister here, but the challenge is that this is too small and that it is too late. The challenge that Filefjell relay now faces is a major disaster if we now get to mix this disease into the domestic herd there. Then we have fast more domestic and more wildrein that will be able to frame. Why has it not been taken to make sure that we do not get the spread of the wild rain trunk from North Mountain to other areas, already in 2016? And why is it not now said that one should take as clear a grip as limiting this also with a physical fence in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1313	Now I showed in my article the measures that have been implemented. Extensive measures have been implemented, including to limit migration, which we believe can help reduce infection. So it will always be that when this type of serious incident occurs, close contact between the responsible authorities and also with the local population is important, which also makes significant efforts in cooperation with the SNO and the other agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1318	It's not just a national disaster, it's an international disaster we can face if we get this spread. A lot of voluntary work is now being done by the local forces, who are setting up and taking responsibility for a partial billing from the country. I expected the state to take a greater responsibility for the size of this disaster, and that it would have set down a crisis team. Now I know that the North Mountain Council is setting down a crisis team next week, based on the three municipalities. We have a spokesman in Lærdal, Solheim, who is ready to launch a crisis team, and who knows well about crisis management. It is also one of the areas of the Minister of Local Affairs. How do you manage to judge both state agencies – for here there are several state agencies involved – and municipalities, county councils and county councillors, who are also involved locally and regionally?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1325	There is now close cooperation between agricultural and environmental authorities in this area. There is good coordination between state agencies. I agree with the representative that both the municipality and not least volunteers are doing a very good job. It is important in this kind of situation that resources meet each other, and that there is a good interaction also with the volunteers, for whom we have a good tradition in Norway, making an important effort. I would also like to point out that the Scientific Committee on Food Safety has produced one report on Chronic Waste Disease in Norway. It was published in June 2016, and there will be a new report at the end of March. That report will also provide us with a good basis for assessing the need for and, in particular, the action to be taken in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1338	This question, from the representative of Hege Haukeland Liadal to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, will be answered by the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1343	‘In Norway, it has been a wild policy over many years that everyone should be able to own their own housing. In Haugesund, several parents went to young people with different needs together and formed housing laws, built apartments and secured self-ownership housing for young people who moved outside the housing market in a rented apartment in their adult life. What does the Council of State do to allow people with mental retardation to live in self-ownership housing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1350	Owning one's own home provides basic security in the everyday life that most Norwegians want. For persons with a developmental disability, the safety of everyday life is particularly important. The government took an important step in the 2017 government budget to make the road to owner-occupied housing shorter for this group. It is the municipalities that have the primary responsibility that people with a developmental disability get a good place to live, but we wanted to give the municipalities and residents more flexibility in the way they organize and acquire the dwellings. As of 1 January 2017, resident law laws and joint societies will be compensated for VAT on construction costs and operations if they are included as part of the health and care provision of the statutory lucky day in the municipality. The VAT deduction will benefit the residents directly. They will have lower monthly costs, in the form of lower borrowing costs and lower operating and maintenance costs. We assume that several such housing laws will be established as a result of the change. In addition, the Husbank’s instruments play an important role in providing housing for this target group – both start-up loans, start-up grants and investment grants for nursing homes. The government is concerned that the situation can be even better. That is why we put down a sample in 2014. The selection has given us a thorough review of the housing situation for the developmentally impaired in NOU 2016:17 In the same line. The hearing period expired on 2 March. The government will go through the NOU and the hearing opinions carefully and come back to the Storting with an assessment and any proposals for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1365	I thank you for your answer. A unanimous increase determined that the health protection of mentally retarded persons should be abolished and people with developmental disabilities should be equivalent to residents of the municipalities. Development of the central institutions stopped in the 1970s and after the established HVPU secondary institutions in the municipalities. According to Professor Jan Tøssebro, the average secondary institution had 13 residents in 1989, which the authorities also thought was too large. Many municipalities today are building considerably larger housing communities. What has the government done to ensure the objective of the reform of normalisation and integration also in housing policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1372	First of all, I would say that most municipalities are doing a very good job in this area. We also have to include in this discussion that people with developmental disabilities are as different as everyone else. That means that the needs, the desires, are different. Some want to live alone, others in a housing law and others left in an offer that is better coordinated. This is where I believe it is important that the instruments of both the State and the municipality are adapted so that more people can have the opportunity to get their housing dream fulfilled. That is why I was very pleased that the government put in place this VAT compensation scheme for housing law and cohabitation. There's been a fight for a lot of parent groups over a lot of years to get it in place. I myself was an active driver for it as a wholesaler and am very pleased that this has now been completed from 1 January 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1377	We regularly read about long house cows in many municipalities in the country. Norsk Association for Devolved People, NFU, claims that lack of housing is a misguided policy in several municipalities. The State grant schemes minimise the financial burden on housing construction for municipalities. Persons in need of assistance who live at home are largely assisted by relatives. When people move in their own homes, the municipalities have to provide the assistance. By having a long queue, municipalities can reduce the scope of services, claims the NFU. What has the government done to ensure that the lack of housing is not used as a means to avoid providing services?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1382	I want to answer the question by saying that I hope the premise is not correct. If it is true that some municipalities wonder that you should not build out dwellings, because then you can reduce the offer and costs, I would like to have an overview of which municipalities this is. I find it very difficult to answer that question as long as I am unsure about the premise itself, but I would like to express a strong hope that it is not true that the municipalities speculate in this. Then we have to make sure that we have state instruments, and that we interact with the municipalities, so that as much as possible, regardless of the situation you're in, we have opportunities to meet the housing dream.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1389	Question 9 will be answered later, and we will proceed to question 10. Now it's so that there's not a councillor and a questioner that fits together, present in the hall right now. I don't want to cancel the meeting, so I can stand and talk a little dry! There comes a state councillor, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, and can state councillor Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and Freddy de Ruiter go on, that helps the president! So then we jump to question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1401	«It is permitted in the Training Act § 13-7 that municipalities should have an SFO offer for children with special needs of 1-7 years. The SFO offer is in many places under any criticism for children with special needs. How can the Council of State ensure that the transition from school to the SFO does not result in major social and mental problems for many of them?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1408	Municipalities are obliged to have an offer of school leisure arrangements before and after school for 1 to 4 grades. For children with special needs, the municipality will have an SFO offer up to the 7th year. SFO is not part of the school’s education and training activities. The SFO and initial training have different purposes. That's why we don't have the same rules for the SFO as for the primary school itself. Students do not have the right to a place in the SFO as they are entitled to training. Nevertheless, the Training Act sets clear requirements for municipalities in terms of the content and design of the SFO. The SFO shall facilitate play and cultural and leisure activities based on the age, level of function and interests of children. Children shall be given adequate care and supervision. Supervision shall be sound, taking into account the risk of injury or accident. It is also clarified in the law that children with disabilities should be given good development conditions. Furthermore, requirements are made for the areas used, both outdoors and indoors, to be suitable for the purpose. Municipalities must meet these requirements and adapt their supply and staffing according to the children's group in the SFO at all times. Municipalities have obligations to take account of and facilitate children with special needs in the SFO, based on the requirements of the law. In addition, I would like to clarify that the provisions of the Training Act, which will ensure a good school environment for students, also apply to the SFO. The government has just proposed a tightening of these rules, with an expanded obligation of activity for all adults working at school. The legislative proposal also includes the SFO. All students have the same right to be safe and sound at school and in the SFO and to a psychosocial environment that promotes health, well-being and learning. The size has wanted an evaluation of the SFO and a big message about the SFO. We have therefore announced an evaluation mission on the quality of SFOs. The call for the assignment reads: ‘The evaluation shall include an assessment of different SFO quality objectives such as organisation, competence, content and user satisfaction. The evaluation shall make visible the understanding and local use of the action space in the current training law in relation to the SFO. The evaluation shall include the SFO for students at 1 to 4 steps and the SFO for students with special needs at 1 to 7 steps.» When the evaluation is available at the end of 2018, it will provide us with better knowledge of how students with special needs are doing in the SFO. It will also provide us with a better basis for assessing the need for new action for this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1426	There were some general considerations from the Council of State. I am so pleased with that evaluation, but in the meantime there are a lot of people who find it difficult. It's not for stabbing under the chair. These are students — their parents too — who are in a very difficult situation. It is perceived as indiscriminate, and it is perceived as discriminatory that when other children can go home or choose not to take advantage of the offer, this is a student who is totally dependent on being at school until the parents come home from work. So the option is either that one of the parents might stop working, or that the student stays at the SFO, but with such a bad offer that it goes beyond the quality of life and how he feels. It's a little weird when you see how close these students are often followed up in school. How can the Council of State ensure a content and organisation, even before the end of 2018, that better caters for these students?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1433	As I explained in my answer, this area is also subject to regulation. This means that if you believe that this is an offer under any criticism, and that goes against what is the regulations and the national leaders of the SFO, it is the responsibility and duty of the municipality to rectify it. If we're going to do something systematic about this, we actually have to get information first, and that's what we're going to do through this evaluation, which is going to take some time because we're going to do it properly, but that's going to be followed up, first with an evaluation and then with a big message about the SFO, where we're also going to be concerned about how the SFO offer is for the students who are asking about it here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1440	I think it's important to take the whole SFO field, I see a need for it. But it is also important that these children not be thrown out with the bath water, because they have very special needs. When these children are finished with 7th grade, after school they are taken care of. Then it's the other one that steps in. So my final question to the Council of State is: Could it be considered whether this service is actually a care service for these children? That is really what we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1449	I can, of course, give some kind of assessment of it, but it doesn't matter to me at all to give an assessment of whether it's a good idea or not. But just because we've now notified a larger review and acquisition of knowledge about the SFO, it's a theme that can naturally be heard at home there. I appreciate, of course, that questions are raised in the Questionnaire. It's important, and I'm also responsible for the SFO. But it is important to stress that the municipalities, which own the SFO, also have a responsibility here. This means that if you are a parent, or if you choose and citizens in a municipality believe that the offer is not good enough, you will certainly find both positions and opposition parties in the municipality who are responsive to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1456	Then we go to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1464	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘The revenues of the foreign tables are used to reduce network rentals for Norwegian consumers. This helps to legitimize the development of foreign tables. One of the Workers' Party's appeals against private ownership of foreign tables is that the revenue will go to the owners instead of the consumers. The EU's Winter Package proposes new rules. What will be the significance of the EU Commission’s proposal for a revised electricity regulation for the possibility of reducing network rentals for Norwegian grid customers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1473	The EU has been working over several years to develop energy markets, as the representative knows. Work has been largely parallel to efforts to replace an energy supply mainly based on coal power and nuclear power with more climate-friendly solutions. Norway was at an early stage in deregulating the power market in the 1990s, and the main principles of the Norwegian electricity market model are in key areas consistent with the intentions of EU market regulation. The winter package presented by the Energy Commission in December 2016 consists of a number of new legislative proposals. The proposals shall provide the basis for meeting the EU 2030 targets and further development of energy markets. The EU Member States will decide on the Commission’s proposals in the coming years. There is reason to believe that during the process there will be changes to the legislation currently proposed in the winter package. Among other things, the winter package proposes new rules for the use of so-called bottleneck revenues. The Commission's proposal is that bottlenecks revenue should be used to guarantee, maintain and increase electricity exchange capacity. The proposal, as it stands now, would remove the possibility of using the income from the foreign tables to reduce the tariff. It is too early to say what is finally finally finally adopted as binding legislation and, where appropriate, what consequences it will have. I want from my point of view to take an active position to care for Norwegian energy interests in the further process. This includes the continued reduction of bottleneck revenue. Other countries have also been concerned about this issue, and we will work with like-minded countries to promote our views in the further process. There is considerable scepticism about the Commission’s proposal to cut off the possibility of using bottlenecks revenue to reduce the tariff. We will follow this up in the dialogue with those countries that have expressed the same point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1484	I thank you for the answer and am very happy to hear that something will be done here, and that there are several people who are also concerned about this. The reality of this proposal is that the legitimacy of building foreign tables from Norway to the continent will disappear. It would also be the case that for the transmission system companies the benefit of being able to have these cables will be very small, while for the power generation there will be a huge gain in this – not in the form of revenues from the cables, but in the case of commercial revenues. In my opinion, this is a rather dangerous mix for the Norwegian power system and how we manage it further. What I am thinking of, now that this is going to be discussed in Parliament as well, is: how does the government work towards Parliament in order to get a better opinion from there?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1493	Let me first stress that we are now working with the whole of the winter package and have also had it out at a hearing, and we are now working on the hearing opinions after it. Let me also say that I share the concern of the representative Per Rune Henriksen regarding this concrete proposal on foreign tables. With regard to Parliament's consideration of this, we will return to a follow-up to it. The countries with which we have been currently in dialogue on this specific proposal are Sweden, Belgium, Germany, the Netherlands, Austria, the Czech Republic, Denmark and Estonia, all of which provide clear feedback on – and express – scepticism on the proposal put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1502	To the developments we are now seeing from the European Union side: we should not pre-empt the fact that the proposal is now in its present state – I understand – but if it goes in that direction, this is a serious matter. It's going to be particularly serious when we just in this big business, with a majority of the government parties and their supporters on the Stortinget, have made it possible for private interests to own and operate foreign tables. This gives – to say – development actors with completely different incentives for the development and operation of foreign tables than what Statnet has in its original model, which is mostly about security of supply. Will the Council of State reconsider the amendment to the law that was made, if developments show that it is difficult to endorse Norwegian views in the wider EU process?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1509	There is a question that we may have to come back to when the process has progressed, but as of now I see no basis for it. On the part of the government, we are committed to ensuring a multiplicity of actors that can promote projects, both for comparison and in competition with each other. The type of competition in power cables can promote new trade solutions, technological choices and cost-effective development. This will be good for both households and business – and for the seventh and last for those who pay the bill. A request decision relating to the energy message has been made, where you have to come back and look at the super return that can be found in this type of private cable. I intend to return to Stortinget in connection with the revised budget for 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1518	Then we go to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1526	This question, from the representative of Kari Henriksen to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Justice and Defence, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1531	‘The Ombudsman has slaughtered the agreement on the rental of detention centres in the Netherlands, inter alia because Norway is unable to fulfil its obligations under the UN Convention on Human Rights. The Prime Minister told TV about the case on 15 March 2017 that ‘Solution conditions in the Netherlands have been assessed and that the government believes that there are no bad housing conditions’. Does this mean that the Prime Minister does not trust the Civil Ombudsman's assessments and that she will not take the consequences of the findings in the Civil Ombudsman's report?»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1538	Let me start by reminding the representative that an agreement to rent prison capacity in the Netherlands was adopted by the Stortinget, on a proposal from the government. A fundamental condition for the government to propose such an agreement was that it was not contrary to international human rights, by which Norway is bound. Furthermore, it was a prerequisite for the agreement that the parties, Norway and the Netherlands, recognise that they are bound by international standards and human rights standards. This is made clear in the preamble to the agreement. Both Norway and the Netherlands have ratified the European Convention on Human Rights of 4 November 1950 and the United Nations Convention on Torture of 10 December 1984. The Parties are both obliged to comply with the provisions of the Conventions, including the prohibition of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. I would like to underline the reason for concluding such an agreement. Norway had for a long time been criticised by the United Nations Torture Committee for breaching the deadlines for transferring prisoners from police detention to prison. In addition, Norway was repeatedly criticised for housing cows. The main reason was lack of detention places. It is well known to the representative that it takes time to build prison sites. The government therefore has both a long-term and a short-term plan. We rent 242 temporary prisons in the Netherlands to cut the pay queue and avoid excesses in police detention. At the same time, we are expanding prison capacity in Norway. The government has achieved what it wanted. The reconciliation queue is almost gone, and the number beyond the time limit in police arrest is almost gone. I take seriously the visit report from the Civil Ombudsman Prevention Unit. The Ministry reviews the report and findings in it together with the Directorate of Criminal Affairs and the Norwegian prison in the Netherlands, Norwayrhaven. The Ministry will return to the follow-up in its feedback to the Civil Ombudsman by 1 June, which is the time limit set by the Civil Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1551	I record that the Prime Minister chooses not to answer questions herself where she is confronted with her own quotations, even if she is in Stortinget. But government party representatives have spoken out very disgust about the findings in the report. Anders Werp: «The Civil Ombudsman has been against this agreement since it was concluded, so we are familiar with its earlier arguments.» Haarek Rivers called the Civil Ombudsman's report a theoretically problematic issue, and Ulf Leirstein «hassed these assessments». The Civil Ombudsman is an important independent instrument to control the administration. It is therefore important to clarify whether the government has confidence in the Civil Ombudsman, after the government parties have made critical objections to the report on Norwayrhaven prison. So I'm going to ask you, is this statement that the Council of State is standing behind?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1560	Of course, the government has respect for the Civil Ombudsman. Of course, we're listening to the Civil Ombudsman, and we're going to review the Civil Ombudsman's report carefully, but – and it's important to stress – there's a reason we used these places in the Netherlands. As I said, we had a short-term plan and a long-term plan. When this government joined in 2013, we had long rowing cows, precisely because the previous government didn't take its responsibility seriously and got in place the settlements we needed, in Norway, to solve what was an acute problem. That's what this government is doing. We build up Norwegian prisons, we have more projects in progress, there will be more prisons in the years to come, and then we have temporarily solved it by using housing in the Netherlands. So this is a temporary solution until we've solved the situation that the previous government put us in.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1565	This is a strange dialogue. So here we have one thing that concerns trust in the Civil Ombudsman, and now we've got a nearly 2 minutes and 50 seconds of production of the agreement in the Netherlands. We've got an explanation that the Netherlands was the only option they could choose, which is actually not right; the government had alternatives, which are also presented in Meld. St. 12 for 2014–2015, to build in Norway. And based on the answer the Council of State has given at the end, a few impressions can be that human rights violations can actually be defended only by reason is good enough. It's quite eye-catching. The council can decide for itself whether I have misunderstood, but I would still ask him if he sees that the statements made by the government parties can help undermine the confidence of the Civil Ombudsman?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1572	I would like to repeat myself that we take the report from the Civil Ombudsman seriously, but let me also add that the Civil Ombudsman has stated that there is no evidence that we have violated any human rights of the state. And that's an important premise. Of course, it's not that we accept violations of human rights in order to put the settlements in the Netherlands. Then some relationships, more findings, are addressed in this report. We will review them with the greatest seriousness, and we will, of course, put in the necessary measures to deal with it, if we see that there is a need for it. But let me stress that the places of atonement we have in the Netherlands are based on human rights, and we do no violations there. At the same time, we solve a short-term capacity problem because the previous government didn't build the number of prisons we needed. It solves this government now. We're building new prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1581	Then we go back to question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1589	I'm sorry I wasn't in the hall. I tried to follow along with it, but it didn't work out. My question is: ‘For four months, the Directorate for Health has refused that an incorrect registration practice in the DIPS has resulted in patients being expelled from the official waiting lists. According to a trusted doctor at Oslo University Hospital, there may be tens of thousands of patients who have lost their right to treatment, cf. TV2 on 28 February 2017. Can the State Council inform about the extent of this scandal, how many patients have lost the right to treatment, and what measures the government has now taken to ensure patients' right to treatment within the deadline?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1598	I refer to the assignment that I have given to the Health Directorate for the registration of waiting time. The Health Directorate shall deliver its report at the end of the month of April/May. The conditions addressed by the representative will be clarified in this report. The Health Directorate explains that they do not have a basis for believing that weaknesses in the DIPS have played a crucial role in national waiting time developments. However, the Directorate states that it may have had an impact on the legal rights of patients. However, they do not have reason to believe that this has affected the treatment of patients, nor do they have examples that it should have happened. In other words, patients have no longer been waiting for treatment due to deficiencies in DIPS. It is important for me to stress that the requirements of medical care apply throughout the patient’s course. Hospitals shall have an overview and conduct of good patient conduct after first contact. From 2017, I will introduce a new management indicator, ‘tentative time to contact’, which will provide us with useful information about the hospital’s ability to plan and implement good patient processes. It measures the number of patient agreements that are delayed compared to the planned time and includes both newly referred patients and patients who are already in a process. The fact that the government has introduced a cycle of cancer packages shows that we are taking the whole of the patient’s course seriously. 34,000 patients have now entered the package sequences, so that they have been defined times for investigation, diagnosis and initiation of treatment. It is the regional health companies that are responsible for correcting the registration in the DIPS. The weakness of DIPS has been known. It is possible to correct this manually, and it is my impression that this has been informed in the registration supervisors and in training in most hospitals. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has also addressed this issue in follow-up meetings with health regions in February. Here the importance of making the registration correct was underlined. I have now also been informed that DIPS will change the current screenshot in DIPS Classic within a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1617	What surprises me is that it could take so long before there have been any changes in DIPS, and there have been some comments of concern from the professional community, in legal reports and from the guidance also in Oslo University Hospital that this is a system that prevents patients from getting the legal rights they should have. The Health Directorate has in several ways said that there is no need for concern, and the Council of State has turned to the Health Directorate. So my question is whether one takes some lessons from this case, and how it could go so long before it was established that we have a system that makes patients not secure the legal right that they should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1622	The lesson of taking this away, as of many other things, is that the responsibility for the patients being granted their rights lies in the hospitals, with the doctors and with the hospital management, and that is a responsibility that one cannot fail to take, among other things. based on ICT systems or other conditions. So it's also like, as I said in my answer, that there's no reason to believe that this has gone beyond the treatment of patients, and there's no example that it should have happened, that is. patients have no longer been waiting for treatment due to deficiencies in DIPS. It is important that hospitals have good follow-up systems for the entire patient course, and that will also be measured in hospitals now. Then I am glad that the hospitals along with DIPS have agreed to fix this in the existing version of DIPS, so there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1629	For me, it's a little surprising that one might say that it has no consequences for patients or for treatment processes when one sees that patients have not been given their legal rights. How can the Council of State be so sure that this has not affected patients, as a trusted doctor said on TV 2, that it dealt with tens of thousands of patients who have not received their treatment rights? I hear what the council says, but I'd like to get a comment on whether this is a conclusion, or whether it's something he assumes. Then I want to ask the Council of State what he thinks about managing this case by the Directorate of Health, when they have gone out and rejected in several rounds that this is a problem, but at the end of the day it admits that this system has actually been followed by patients' legal rights to treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1636	The Health Directorate has followed this case closely all the way. They have received many enquiries from TV 2 with various questions, and I understand that they have answered them. They have also provided me with continuous information based on the knowledge they have at all times. Patients’ right to treatment and investigation shall be followed up by hospitals regardless of their ICT-side systems. What is important is that it is not the ICT systems that evaluate patients. There are doctors who do, and doctors who consider that a patient should be called for treatment, are responsible for ensuring that the patient is called for treatment and that treatment is started. If the doctor assesses that the patient needs an investigation before treatment, it should be given. There is no rule in the law that the patient is entitled to treatment. The patient is entitled to investigation or treatment — start-up related to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1641	So we go to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1649	This question, from the representative Ruth Grung to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be answered by the Minister of Justice and Security who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1654	‘The Ombudsman’s report from Norwayrhaven prison shows that patients’ rights have not been respected and that the provision of health services is not satisfactory. He points out that prisoners with chronic and non-acute diseases are not guaranteed follow-up to the specialist healthcare service and that prisoners do not have effective access to an effective complaint mechanism for health care. What will the Council of State do to follow up the findings in order to safeguard the health and patient rights of the prisoners?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1661	A fundamental premise when the government proposed to enter into an agreement on the rental of prison sites in the Netherlands was that criminal services should ensure that prisoners who execute punishment in the Netherlands are offered health care equivalent to the one that would be required in the case of criminal proceedings in Norway. This is regulated by the Penal Code § 1 a. The Health Directorate was on an inspection in Norwayrhaven prison during the contract and concluded that the health service is equivalent to the health service provided in Norwegian prisons, with the exception of special health services. Prisoners in need of health care, including special health services that cannot be provided in Norwayrhaven prison, shall not be transferred to that prison. A thorough health assessment is carried out on each individual patient prior to any transfer. Prisoners who consider that health professionals should not be transferred for health reasons are not transferred to Norwayrhaven prison. This is mentioned in the bill proposed by the government, Prop. LS 92 for 2014-2015, page 35. Prisoners who believe that the health care offered to them is not equivalent to the health care they would have received in their housing in Norway may complain about this to the County of Norway. If detainees are dissatisfied with the performance of healthcare by Dutch health professionals, they may appeal to the Dutch complaint authorities. Any damage to health services received in Norway’s prison is covered by the Norwegian Patient Damage Act. After the Ombudsman's visit, the information on the complaints has improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1670	A number of areas in the report to which the Civil Ombudsman attaches importance were actually addressed by the Health Directorate in the preparation of the guidelines. It turns out that some prisoners have voluntarily wanted to zone in the Netherlands, but that they have had a health situation that makes them need support from the specialist health service. Obviously, the system has not worked here. It also turns out that there may be a role conflict related to how it is organised in the Netherlands, where the prison board actually controls the healthcare system. Patients’ rights are different in Norway compared with those in the Netherlands. How do you ensure that all the four concrete recordings from the Civil Ombudsman are followed up, and how will the Stortinges be briefed on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1677	The ministry will carefully review the report of the Civil Ombudsman. We're going to evaluate each point. We will take the necessary measures where we consider it necessary from the point of view of the situation. I can make sure that this will be followed up, and of course, to the extent that things are not handled on the basis of the assumptions, it will be taken care of. I'll take that into account in the further work. The rule is that prisoners with treatment needs who are not covered in Norwayrhaven prison should also not be transferred there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1684	I thank you for the answer and expect us to be briefed when the Minister has to answer the Civil Ombudsman. Does this mean that the Minister has not been aware that there have been problems linked to an equivalent health service up to now? Or have you tried to deal with the situation and improve it before the Civil Ombudsman went down? The question is, was it necessary to have the Civil Ombudsman down there for them to have an equivalent offer? Or was something done in advance?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1689	Now I will not prejudge the assessments we are about to make, after receiving the report from the Civil Ombudsman. As I said, we are going to review those points carefully, and to the extent that there is a need for them, we are going to implement changes. It will be taken care of. Then, of course, feedback to the Civil Ombudsman will also be publicly known. The deadline is probably 1 June. Of course, we'll make sure you're informed about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1696	We go to question 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1704	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice and Defence the following questions: ‘In the interpellation debate of 21 February 2017 on the fight against criminal gangs in the Oslo area, the Council of State said: ‘It’s not like using A4 solutions in all contexts, and I think most people see that the metropolitan area has special challenges to meet’. The diffi report on police reform also addresses the same issue. Nevertheless, the section for organised crime in the Oslo police district as such is being set down in a short time and allocated into a new large single unit. How will the Council of State ensure that the police have resources for long-term, concentrated efforts against the criminal gangs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1713	A powerful police force is about sufficient resources, on the one hand about good organisation and, on the other, access to the right working methods. The government has delivered in all three areas. Since the government change in government in 2013, the government has invested considerable resources to the police. The police budget has increased by about 2.5 billion. kr. It is then corrected for VAT, pension, price and salary growth, so there are real increases. In the period from 31 December 2013 until 31 December 2016, there have been 1,644 more annual police posts. At the same time, the police reform adopted by Stortinget in the summer of 2015 is being implemented. The reform is both a structural reform and a quality reform. On the issue, the representative is concerned with structural changes in the Oslo Police District organisation and how this could have consequences for long-term concentrated efforts against the criminal gangs. The reform, as I also pointed out in the interpellation debate on 21 February of this year, has as one of its aims the better ability of the police to deal with serious crime, including the fight against criminal gangs. I feel a need to remember the intention of the reform. The structural changes shall be based on the qualitative objectives set by the reform for the operation of the police. It is important to provide the police with the necessary tools. On the government’s initiative, legislative changes have been adopted which have now increased the police’s access to hidden coercive measures, such as: data reading and extended access for the use of communication control. These are important tools also in the fight against criminal gangs, and that is also something you will get as an example if you ask the police about it. As I said during the interpellation debate of February 21st this year, Oslo Police District has informed that they will continue their targeted work in 2017 to combat this crime and avert serious incidents, as well as continue the good, multidisciplinary preventive cooperation with the municipality and the urban areas. Leadership has been given on the priorities of serious crime. This is reflected in both the budget proposal, the letter of assignment to the Police Directorate on objectives and the prioritisation written by the National Attorney. The kind of crime this is about clearly falls within the leadership given on priority. I would therefore like to take this opportunity again to stress that I am confident that the police will take this threat seriously, that the situation will be closely monitored, and that necessary preventive and control measures will be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1732	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In the interpellation debate on 21 February, the Council of State said that he shared my commitment to: ‘The Oslo and Oslo areas have specific challenges that we should pay extra attention to and that must be properly addressed. The management of these kinds of issues should be followed up to the greatest extent and will also be done’. If we look at the experience of the 2006 reconstruction project: after a debate here in Stortingen, the then State Council took the initiative that those who put in the special effort in Oslo police district received 12 million. kr per year for special resources to carry out such a demanding job over many years. Will the Council of State help to make such an enhanced effort that is now being made to deal with the new, worrying development of Oslo, and to see if there are opportunities to channel funds so that we can put pressure on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1742	I very much agree that it is important to put the necessary resources into the Oslo Police, just to stop the developments we have seen, and that we have anything but happy examples of, without exaggerating the dimensions in them. It's important that the Oslo Police are strengthened. That is why the Oslo police force is being strengthened considerably this year. About 100 posts are assigned to Oslo Police District and nearly 100 million. kr in increments. It's about a strong reinforcement of the police in Oslo, and it also provides clear leadership to create an even better fight against crime in this important area. I'm under arrest for detailing the police. I think we should give them the framework to make their political judgements on how best to combat serious crime, and I perceive to the greatest extent that the Oslo police think correctly in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1749	I agree with the Council of State on this. The Oslo Police have now announced a comprehensive response to what they characterise as a worrying development, in which, in particular, a revolving environment in the south of Oslo has now evolved so that the Oslo Police call it the biggest criminal gang challenge we have here in Oslo – I would say also in the country. They have now announced a concentrated effort over several years to address it, and it is certainly both the Council of State, the Stortinget and I very pleased. My question is whether the Council of State can look at and find a way to contribute to that effort in addition to the usual budgetary resources that come each year, for example. through the coordination body for the fight against organised crime, which has a pot of funds allocated to specific efforts. I am aware that it is not the Council of State that grants it directly, but there are ways of channelling resources into it, so that efforts can be stepped up especially for a period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1756	Night by Sunday I had the pleasure – or joy, at least I had the opportunity – to be with the police on the patrol for several hours. It was very useful. I feel that the police are working well, and that to the most extent they see the issues and are in the process of dealing with them in a good way. I trust the police in Oslo. It is important that we give them a good financial framework and the crew resources needed to deal with the situation in a good way and prevent the negative development we have seen in some parts of Oslo from developing into worse. There's a high level of police awareness here, and I think it's important that we make arrangements on the resource side, so that they can continue the good work, but at the same time that we, as politicians, are held back from explaining and telling the police how to do this. I trust that the police will make their assessments in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1766	‘The Right Party and Advance Party Government must take its part in the responsibility for building too few dwellings. However, they also need to ensure that housing is legally built, both in terms of pay and employment, health, environment and safety, tax legislation, etc. The construction industry is a particularly vulnerable industry to unprofessional operators. Does the State Council believe that the police today have sufficient means at their disposal to investigate and prosecute the crime of working life?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1773	Labour crime is a priority area of crime for the government. The crime scene is complex and has elements of multi-crime. A well-organised, powerful police and prosecution authority with sufficient resources and the right tools are fundamental to the success of the fight against serious crime at work. I have been informed by the Riksadvokat that they have not received any enquiries from the state attorneys or the police suggesting a lack of staffing methods in the fight against serious occupational crime. They also state that the most socially damaging forms of this type of crime will usually be affected by such strict criminal provisions as to allow access to the most in-depth criminal proceedings. In the period since 2013, the government has been doing police work with a total increase in police budgets of 2.5 billion. kr., and in the period from 31 December 2013 to 31 December last year, there have been 1,644 additional annual works. Police reform, through a wider professional environment, is designed to improve the ability of the police to combat serious crime, including financial crime and labour crime. The quality of the investigation shall be enhanced by the ongoing investigation promise. All police districts are now in the process of establishing their new organisation. The government's strategy against crime at work, revised in February of this year, also includes several measures that will strengthen the police's capacity to fight crime. All police districts shall have business contacts in place during 2017. It should improve police contact and interaction with business in preventing crime both within and against business. Furthermore, the police's treatment of serious competition crime should be improved by establishing, from 2017, housing coordinators in all police districts. The strategy also facilitates increased multidisciplinary cooperation. In particular, a national interdisciplinary analysis and intelligence centre was established in 2016, where the police are involved with other control centres. In 2017, there will also be a total of seven co-located units against labour-related crime, the A-crime centres. Combating serious crime at work is a priority of the government. My statement describes a lot of the work that has been done. I trust that this will produce results.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1790	I thank you for your answer. Last week we dealt with the Riksrevision's strong criticism of the government's efforts. The police spend too long on investigation, labour-life crime has few or no consequences, the tragic accident in Bærum in 2013 where a young Lithuanian was injured for life and where the state attorney had to order investigation has not yet been completed, and Kripos showed in 2014 that the police lacked both competence and equipment, so that it was difficult to provide evidence and too little detection risk. Now I hear from the Government's answer that he describes a completely different reality, that much has happened, and that much will happen in 2017. Can the Council confirm that Kripos receives the same question today or at the end of the year, will they answer that the police are in control of the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1797	I perceive that the efforts the government has made to combat crime in this area will bear fruit – and in part have done so as well. There is a significant effort that has been made. Then, of course, there are challenges, but I think that the strengthening we have done and are doing in the police, and the quality results we will get through the police reform could facilitate even better results. So, of course, I can't tell you what Kripos had to answer if you ask them, but I think that at least on the part of the government, we have taken the necessary measures – and we are, of course, open to even more people – to fight this kind of crime, which is alarming and which we, as a society, must fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1804	Thanks for the answer. It is interesting to hear that the Council of State says that he is open to even more measures, for investigation and judgment require the detection of crime. The Centre for Labour Crime in Oslo said to Dagbladet on 14 March that it is a big problem that when they discover a criminal network one place, they only show up again in new industries with less control. At FriFagbewegung.no today, the centres say that Norwegian lawyers and accountants assist in hiding traces and training matters, and that of course makes the police work more difficult. I know that the Progress Party is not very happy in LO, but the trade movement has, after all, 60 000 schooled trustees in all industries throughout the country. However, could the Council of State, in the service of good, consider recommending the police to cooperate more closely with local trustees in order to make the pursuit of criminal gangs even more effective?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1813	I think the representative is a little misinformed if she assumes that the Advance Party disagrees with the LO. I don't think that's a proper description of the situation. But what she's doing is, to the extent that it's an interesting input, without me being able to conclude right here and now. I also see the value of trustees being able to provide important and good information in detecting serious crime at work. I see absolutely that point, but I can't here and now, over the table, say that it's time to implement, but I'm taking it with me and seeing it as a recording that should be considered. Because as I say, here you are open to any good input that can make us even better able to fight serious work-life crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1825	This question, from the representative of Jorod Asphjell to the Minister of Justice and Defence, lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1833	‘The Ombudsman has made serious findings during his visit to Norwayrhaven prison. Including the routine imposition on prisoners of the coercive agent BodyCuff during air transport, without individual assessment and written decision. The Ombudsman says in his report that this practice is not acceptable. Does the Council of State consider practice to be acceptable and will it change the practice in line with the recommendations of the Civil Ombudsman?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1840	The use of coercive agents, including ‘body cuff’, shall be governed by Section 38 of the Penal Code. Crime prevention shall use coercive measures only if the circumstances make it strictly necessary and less restrictive measures in vain have been tried or would be manifestly inadequate. It implies a concrete and individual assessment of whether coercive agents are to be used on a case-by-case basis. Coercive measures may be used, inter alia: where necessary to avert serious attack or injury to a person or to prevent evacuation during the transport of prisoners. Forced substances shall be used with caution so that no one is suffering undue damage or suffering. The Ministry of Justice and Security will ask the Directorate of Criminal Welfare to review the rules and practices of criminal law enforcement in transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1847	The Civil Ombudsman also writes in his report on transport from the plane to the prison: ‘However, there is a concern that the cell bus lacked safety belts. When this was taken up with the management of Norwayrhaven prison afterwards, it was explained that Dutch legislation does not require safety belts in the case of bus or coach transport, nor does it apply to the transport of prisoners.’ This is about more than seat belts in the bus, of course. This is an example of a conflict between Norwegian law and Dutch law, where Dutch law is applicable. Does the Council of State consider it unproblematic that Norwegian prisoners are not subject to Norwegian law after arrival in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1857	I think we have assumed that human rights are a foundation when we buy prison places in the Netherlands. I don't think the example of missing seat belts on the bus during transportation is necessarily perceived as the most serious overtramp. It is at least difficult to interpret it as contrary to human rights all the time it is not quite unusual in Norway to use a bus without seat belts. But that doesn't mean that in any way I underestimate important matters that are taken up by the Civil Ombudsman. Of course, we'll see about that. But I ask you to have some care to present the Civil Ombudsman's criticism of the settlement conditions in the Netherlands as something like a violation of human rights or something like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1862	I have not mentioned human rights in this question; it is the Council itself that has done in its answers. I have talked about Norwegian law and the application of Norwegian law in the Netherlands for Norwegian prisoners. Another example that I would like to comment on is what happens if an inmate violates Norwegian law in prison, but is not a violation of Dutch law. This could be done, for example, by: Some drug offences are involved. Will he then escape because the Council of State and the Government have sent him to the Netherlands? Marianne Vollan, Director of the Directorate of Criminal Welfare, said in July 2015: ‘Punishment in the Netherlands takes place under Norwegian law, and thus prisoners have the same rights and obligations as prisoners in Norwegian prisons.’ Is it also true if there are acts in prison that are punishable by Norwegian law, but not by Dutch law?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1876	Reconciliation conditions in the Netherlands are similar to those in Norwegian prisons. So it could be that you've discovered some things that should form the basis for transformation or change. But it is important for me to stress the following: We used the shelters in the Netherlands because we inherited a problem after the previous government. They left us long cows of reconciliation, which this government had to clean up. As a result, we used temporary prisons in the Netherlands, while we are now expanding new prisons in Norway. This is a temporary solution. The alternative is long nesting cows. The alternative is that people had to be arrested longer than what was advisable precisely on the basis of human rights. So here I think we're dealing with our responsibilities in a good way, which the previous government didn't do at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1883	Then the ordinary question mark is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-22.ana.ud479e1897	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
