ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e88	The representatives of Inbjørg Amanda Vossken, Sverre Myrli, Kåre Simensen, Knut Storberget and Arild Grande, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For the West-Agder province: Kjell Ivar Larsen For Northern Ireland: Tone-Helen Toften Multiple permit applications are available: from the representative of Gunvor Eldegard on leave from 28 March to 7 April, from the representative of Hege Haukeland Liadal on leave from 29 March to 7 April, and from the representative of Bjørn Lødemel on leave from 30 March to 6 April, all to take part in the spring session of the Interparliamentary Union in Dhaka, Bangladesh. from the Group of the Progressive Alliance on Permits for the Representatives of the European Union, Mr Inbjørg Amanda Gösskenen, from 29 March to 4 April, to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Serbia. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For the Province of East-Agder: Lene Langemyr 29 March to 4 April For Akershus County: Are Health from 28 March to 3 April, and Anne Odenmarck from 4 to 6. April For Rogaland County: Unn Therese Omdal 29-30. March, and Øystein Langholm Hansen 31 March to 6 April For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Bjørn Erik Hollevik 3–6. April
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e179	Are Health is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e196	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Hans Andreas Limi. – Other proposals are not available, and Hans Andreas Limi is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e212	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e221	As rapporteur, I present the Committee's position on the proposal by the representatives of Jenny Klinge, Geir Pollestad and Kjersti Toppe on the ban on the import of street dogs. The Committee has consulted on the matter and asked questions to the Council of State during its examination, and we have registered a high level of commitment from many different actors involved in this matter. I want to thank you for all the recordings we've got from everyone who has engaged and made recordings. The Committee has felt that the case is reasonably complex and has already started the debate on the definition of what a street dog is for. Furthermore, many people have come up with the idea that bans are too square and too strict, and that there must be rules that follow the principle of equality. At the same time, the discussion of the various issues begins, and it is demanding to find the optimal solution for all parties here. However, the main objective of the proposal is clear: the Committee and the proposers are committed to preventing the introduction of diseases, parasites and bacteria which may pose a threat to public and animal health in Norway. I see that everyone agrees on this. But what devices do we have to use? That issue is complex and requires more action. At the same time, we know that we have EU and EEA legislation to follow. The background to the proposal is the increase in the import of street dogs, which is probably due to the liberalisation of the import requirements and their management. This makes it more common now to obtain animals from abroad on the basis of ads on the Internet, in social media, etc. The extent today is probably also due to a high level of commitment to help dogs living in poor conditions abroad. So, for the Committee's recommendation for a decision: We have registered that on behalf of the Minister of Agriculture, the Food Safety Authority has proposed a number of measures, and the Committee says in its proposal for a Decision: ‘The government is asking for reinforced administrative practices related to the import of street dogs into Norway.’ The Committee has not specifically addressed the actions of either the Food Authority or others, and the Council of State is given a mandate to land in that respect. Furthermore, there was a clear signal from the Veterinary Association that identification with a country code mark containing microchip of dogs should be introduced in Norway. This we believe must be feasible and important in a digitised present and not least in the future. It should be possible to build on existing infrastructure around this, and therefore we have a proposal for Decision II, where we say: ‘The government asks the government to assess the need to introduce a mandatory ID marking for dogs in Norway.’ The Committee considers that, through this procedure, we have raised an important issue and, not least, sent clear signals to the government to find new and correct devices on two measures that will be important in terms of infection and health in the future, and not least to look at both the import of dogs and the situation of dogs in Norway, who take them on holiday to other countries, and how best to deal with this, ensuring that the concern for the risk of infection and health risks for both animals and people is properly addressed. With that, I recommend the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e253	Few people have signed up on the list of speakers this time. That's pretty interesting. It suggests that few people are involved in the spread of cross-border infection. This may look like a small matter, but it's an incredibly important case in terms of animal and public health, because what goes on the free movement of living biological material across borders involves a high spread of infection. The late Sigmund Kvalö Setreng laid the pamphlet "Naturen's No" early in the 1990s. To me, it was quite logical to be skeptical about liberalizing the movement of living biological material across the boundaries based on the biological knowledge I have, and the experience I gained, among other things. in the 1970s, when I came to the United States. Then it was not just passport control, but it was also «agricultural control». Should one go through the Utah desert – by car, then, so it was well to drive – one had to deliver all the biological material on one side. One shouldn't take it over. That is why there was a major dispute about the veterinary agreement in 1998. What was the great cross of thought for some of us at that time, and which made the resistance to it very intense, was that it was not knowledge-based, but ideological. The State Council, by letter of 3 February, corresponds to the case today: ‘I consider that the change in practice proposed above is within the scope of EEA legislation. However, one cannot rule out that the restriction will be declared to ESA, and no guarantee can be given as to the outcome of any action. such a complaint.’;» I haven't seen it that directly from any government council before, but it shows the dilemma we're facing. We got the EEA Agreement in 1998. Before that time, border controls on food and animals were not covered by the EEA Agreement, but were therefore extended to include the veterinary agreement, and this meant that Norway had to remove the veterinary border controls on live animals, meat, fish and dairy products from other EU and EEA countries. As a result, the food was priced in other countries and imports of domestic animals could not be quarantined. It was pointed out at the time that food transmission was a growing problem and that the certificates from the EU's internal control of food and animals were of little concern. What comes out in this setting is that there was no theory, what was said at the time. That's how it is. It doesn't work well. It's now suggested to tighten up, and I'm going to end up with those intrusions, but practicing them stands for me as very demanding. There are a lot of people who think of this as another protectionist post by the representative Lundtigen, and they have to do it, but I have to say that the more one now understands the consequences of this free movement, the more certain one is that one has to be knowledge-based. We now have a new disease developing in Norway, in the North Mountain region between Buskerud, Sogn and Hordaland. It's called CWD – "Chronic Wasting Disease" – spooky on the reindeer. It's incredibly demanding. It's a prion, so it's not just bacteria that are the challenge, but also prions, that are even more scientifically complicated. So what this is about is ensuring the safety of animal and public health. If you first get this filth out into nature, it's complicated to fix it, and it's expensive. So this is an important proposal, and I hope that there will be further discussions on the topic. This is something that occupies people very much, because some of these diseases also have a transition to people, and that's why it's so demanding. I'm very happy for everyone who is now busy with natural food, safe food and healthy animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e277	I am pleased with the committee position that is currently under way, and which does not adopt what the draft representative originally proposed, simply to ask the government to introduce a ban, but which asks the government to tighten up administrative practices, in line with the letter I sent to the committee. I think that's an appropriate way of dealing with this. There is no doubt that the risk of infection to Norway is a concern for many, and rightly so. We have good health status in Norwegian pets, we have good health status in Norwegian pets, but there is no doubt that it will not come about by itself. This means that it's important to be aware of the kind of risk we're running when we transport animals across borders. Other bacteria, other diseases that we do not have in Norway today, can establish in Norway if we do not have sufficient control. At the same time, if you look one step further in the future, it is important that we manage this in a way that makes people who have traded animals cross-border, for example. on the pet side, do not suffer undue burden with this proposal. For those who import dogs, e.g.: for use in improving breeding in Norway – there may be small breeds of dogs, or there may be dogs of use used in the agricultural sector, dogs of goats and other types of animals, where there is an exchange of genetic material across borders, where there is a significant import and export of it – we are forced to find reasonable balances, so that we do not make this legislation unnecessarily complicated. With the leadership of the Stortinge today, Norwegian dog owners who make this kind of trade will feel that it is becoming more complicated, more administratively demanding and more expensive to do so in the future. That means that the grip of the Storting today, when they ask the government to tighten up administrative practices, also means that actors who do not trade street dogs, which was the original proposal, but who have had ordinary trade in animals, will experience this as a restrictive grip. I need to inform the Storting about that, so it is clear to the Storting when they make the decisions today. I still mean that it's manageable. Then to the representative Lundtigen and my response to the committee attached to the EEA and process risk. The reason why I have been clearer about it than the representative Lundteg probably has experienced in some of these things before is that we believe that this is within the scope of action we have. It's okay, however, when one takes such action, that the Storting knows the risk that I think is there – firstly because it's being charged, secondly because it always triggers a certain risk. I still believe that in sum it is manageable, and I strongly agree with the Committee's assessment when it tightens up administrative practices. When it comes to the proposal for mandatory identification of dogs, I believe that my preliminary assessment – I will make the assessment more closely in line with the order from the Stortinget – is that it is quite unnecessary, for the simple reason that for animals to be imported into Norway, it is such a requirement. To impose on all Norwegian livestock owners the ID marking, which entails a cost that they have to take, on old and young animals, I am uncertain whether is an appropriate regulation from the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e290	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e295	The Committee is very grateful for the dialogue and for the feedback we received from the Council of State, but we see that there are also some challenges to it. Governments concluded by saying that when it came to identity marking, this was not necessarily easy to solve. I would like to ask the Council of State how to envisage a proposal for a solution, and, if necessary, when it can be implemented, so that a system can be put in place – if the will is there?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e302	It's easy to solve this. Only all livestock owners are required to mark their animals with an ID mark. But I'm not sure if it's an appropriate grip of the state to order all pet owners to mark their dogs. There is usually an assessment I want to assume that the individual dog owner is fully capable of doing it himself. It would be easy to make such a regulation, but I am unsure whether it is appropriate. Therefore, the answer is still that I should make a more thorough assessment of this, but I found that the proposal goes a long way in imposing on private owners what they are fully capable of deciding for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e309	I see the challenge in it, but at the same time we have got quite clear indicators that it will be quite easy to rig it. Not least in the digitalised world in which we are now living, it may be quite important, given the background to this matter, that we have information about the state of health and, not least, about vaccination, etc., which can be contained in that type of information and which is important now. Again, there is an order from the entire Committee and the Stortinget that this must be continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e316	The order has been accepted. This is why I think it is important. I will make a more thorough assessment of it when Stortinget has voiced today. But what's the challenge is: For dogs imported into Norway – moving across borders – ID marking is required. The one thing that actually asks you to introduce is the identification of dogs that are usually born and raised in Norway, or that have come here, and they are then marked. Then is the cloud: if one has a 15-year-old dog who walks and grumbles at the last, shall I demand that one should ID-mark him? I'm not sure if it's appropriate, so here I have to take some time to find out first whether this proposal is appropriate, and then how one might have to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e330	It was – and is – quite common in many countries to introduce cross-border animals, but then there is a quarantine provision. That's what's at the core, one has quarantine provisions to check in practice whether the animals have infectious diseases. The proposal was: ‘The Government is asking the Government to prohibit the importation of street dogs into Norway. Furthermore, the government is asked to consider measures to limit imports of pet animals where such imports pose a risk to animal and public health in Norway. ‘... The Council of State says that it is appropriate not to support that proposal. Appropriate in relation to what? Well, it's appropriate in terms of money, and it's not scientifically based. That's what's part of the problem in this area. It shall be appropriate and there shall be no science. This leads to an increase in the risk of dispersal, with the enormous costs involved, and with the enormous bureaucracy involved. I don't get time to go into it. My question is: is the proposal contrary to the EEA Agreement? Is that why the Council of State is against it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e343	No, we believe that the proposal that the Stortinget is making today can be implemented most, in line with the EEA Agreement. But there is reason to remember that the representative proposal initially put forward by the Central Party puts them away today, because one has found a more appropriate delimitation. It is then okay that the representative Lundtigen takes on board that there was also no connection in the Stortinget for the device that the Senterpartiet primarily proposed. I think it's wise, because I think the Storting has given the government a room for action both to take care of the fact that we don't introduce infection into Norway, and that we tighten up the legislation and practice of it – but in a way that allows regular dog-holders, who have traded animals across borders, to continue to do so. I think that's a good balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e350	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e366	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e375	There is broad agreement in the Committee on Government's bill, and all parties, except Left, support it. The promise comes with and ensures that the fleeting arrangement, which has developed over time, is an important tool for preserving Norway's position as a leading maritime nation. There is a joint committee that believes that the experience of seamen from Norwegian ships is a valuable and important resource to preserve and further develop Norway as a leading maritime nation. The right also suggests that a competitive back-up scheme is an undertaking to secure Norwegian maritime competence, recruitment and competitiveness. This government has shown that they are investing in maritime nutrition, unlike the previous government. I remind myself of former Secretary of State of the Central Party of Hege Solbakken's reaction to the red-green government's last budget proposal, where she, as leader of the Maritime Forum, stated on 14 October 2013: ‘The Maritime Forum considers that the government’s proposals for the 2014 government budget do not address the challenges of further developing Norwegian maritime industry in a tough international competition. Maritime nutrition provides work for 100,000 people across the country, and needs schemes that make Norwegian seafarers competitive in order to develop the industry.’ In other words, the Workers' Party's fait accompli, SV and the Central Party in the government were: no statutory regulation of the net pay scheme, as they had promised a great many. Nor could they remove the roof of the scheme and develop the scheme, as they had promised. The working party also shows very little respect for the soundness of the Speed Committee recommendation. When the government fulfills and follows up its part of the Speed Range Selection recommendations, with the extension of the Net Pay Scheme, the Workers' Party strongly believes that the entries were changed then, and that the other parties in the Speed Range Selection do not need to comply with their parts of the Speed Range Selection recommendations. The opposition also points out in the remarks that the government has to figure out the possibilities to make Norwegian demands for pay and working conditions on a Norwegian base and along the Norwegian coast. This has been awarded before, several times. Since NOW 1976: 40 arrived, the conclusion has been that supply ships in the North Sea have to comply fully with the normal arrangements for shipping. And when the Labour Party last put into government, they concluded a lot at once. See what they wrote about the importance of following the Convention on the Law of the Sea and the flag State principle in St. Meld. No 15 for 2008-2009, on the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy: ‘The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, the EEA Agreement, the WTO Agreement shall contribute to the protection of Norwegian economic interests and Norwegian welfare, directly or indirectly.’;» [[...]] They also write that in Norway, which has a small and open economy, it should be seen as our primary and priority foreign policy interest to ‘prevent the weakening of international legal order and multilateral governance systems’. The Government also underlines the importance of recognising and loyally following the basic rules of the Convention on the Law of the Sea. So these parts will now ignore the basic principle of e.g. the flag State principle, which states that there are rules in the flag State as applicable to wage and working conditions. Does the Labour Party really think that one should comply with local wage and working conditions in all countries? That's what happens if every country does what the Labour Party wants. The Labour Party is quite right that we are a small nation with an open economy. But that makes us totally dependent on international trade to secure exports and create jobs, which in turn can guarantee us well-being and security in the future. Demanding Norwegian pay and working conditions on Norwegian pedestal cannot be seen as anything other than protectionism in practice. Nor is it helpful to create a new Norwegian position on board these ships. A small country like Norway cannot resort to protectionism to strengthen its own competitiveness. Protectionism has never been a solution to the growth and development of our well-being here in the country, nor will it ever be. That should be understood by the Workers' Party, even though the SV and the Centre are struggling to understand it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e402	I am surprised that the rapporteur spoke more about the Workers' Party than about what is stated in the legal text. But when you look at the law and the text we have in front of us today, it's not that weird, because it's pretty short. I'll say a little bit more about why it's short. But I also want to say that there is a unanimous committee today in favour of a statutory right to grants for the employment of workers at sea. So this isn't something that just the Right Party and the Advance Party are concerned about. I would like to remind you that at the end of the last growing-up period, especially the Progress Party was very impatient to get this law in place. In government, they've spent almost four years getting this law ready. Of course, the new law will have no impact on the economy, as this is linked to state budgets, but if we look at the legal text that we are adopting today, it is almost incredible that it has taken so long to get this in place. The bill does not say anything about the scope, device or scope or who will manage the scheme in the future. We believe this should come to a better conclusion. For the Workers' Party, maritime nutrition and policy are very important, and we also know that a good maritime policy is working. If the seafarers are the very hub of this value chain, we must also have a good policy that builds up during recruitment and the competitiveness of Norwegian seafarers. The subsidy scheme for seafarers is thus an important scheme, and it is good that we can now legislate and create security, regardless of the political colour that will be in government in the future. When we turn back and see what the Bondevik II government proposed through a model of competence that significantly weakened the system by the fact that the number of seafarers who could come under the scheme would be dramatically reduced, it is important to see that positive things have been done. After the accession of the Stoltenberg Government, the North grant scheme was reinforced as early as 2005, and during the eight years set by the government, subsidies increased by 60pst, i.e. a total of 700 million. NOK, but it is not the representative Trellevik who is very concerned about repeating. In the course of four years, the current government has increased the grants by 150 million. kr. I also want to remind you that there is another difference here. Because while the Right was opposed to the scheme we put in place, and we held to the model of competence, we have been very positive to the changes that have happened to the net pay scheme while the Right and Advance Party have been in government. So here we've been supporting players. We programmed at our national meeting that we would have legislated a net pay scheme in the spring of 2013, and we recorded the impatience of the Progress Party. But it's been very quiet about this. Although the Speed Region Committee, which was set up by the Council of State, came up with a lot of different measures, it has taken an incredible amount of time to get this in place. I would also like to remind you that in 2013, when we were in government, we came with our third social dumping action package, which meant that we wanted to look at – and investigate – whether it could be possible to introduce Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian waters as well as on Norwegian seas. This was also the subject of the Minister of Industry's maritime commission, but the Council of State did not want to address it. It is quite strange that a knowledge party that Right does not want to know about this. We record that the colleague of the Right in England actually wants more knowledge of this and wants to see how to rig a minimum wage scheme on the base. The government is obviously more responsive to the employer side than the employee side also in this area, I would like to say. It is not only the net pay system that builds up under the competitiveness of Norwegian seafarers, it also makes demands on pay and working conditions. The Labour Party is against the regulation proposed by the government, and we have been quite clear about it. We are also quite surprised that the consequences for the Nordic system have not been properly assessed in the light of that regulation. We believe that the distortion of competition, as Color Line pointed out, has changed since they were put in the sample and had numbers there. You haven't changed these numbers in the two years, yet you're so blatant that the distortion of competition is the same now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e423	Even if you didn't think that when you heard the previous speech, this is actually a joyous day. For many years, in the Progress Party, we have been alone in wanting to legislate on the net pay scheme or ‘grants for employment of workers at sea’, as it is called today. Today, however, there is a broad majority in the United Kingdom that supports this policy. The party of progress is the party of the seafarers. We've always been, and we work hard to keep going. That's what we've been doing since Anders Lange started Anders Lange's Party to cut taxes, taxes and public intervention at Saga cinema in 1973, with many seafarers in the hall. We're not quite in the goal yet, where we in the Progress Party will eventually, but in recent years we've taken seven-mile steps in the right direction. The government's maritime policy, set out in the offensive maritime strategy that came in 2015, is further followed up by the decision we are making today. There is indeed something in Nordahl Grieg's words that «our honor and our power have brought us white sails». Norway has always been a major maritime nation with a high level of maritime competence. Ever since we started to develop seriously as a shipping nation, with the Vikings in the 700s – which may not only have been of a positive kind, seen behind and with a bit of soberness – through the sailing season, the big fisheries and until today, with the offshore adventure, we have built rocks on this competence. Today, the industry stands for a value creation of about 180 billion. kr in total and gives work to about 110 000 people. Norway has the world's fifth largest fleet in number of ships. The maritime competence may not have brought us into wealth by itself, but it definitely took us out of poverty. It is precisely the competence of our seafarers that is important in this bill. It is important for further innovation and innovation throughout the maritime chain. It is important for the competitiveness of Norwegian seafarers, and it does not least contribute to the acutely impelled stability of an unstable economic world. What surprises me is the opposition's, in particular the Workers' Party's, but also the Center's, broad position on this matter. They write in their notes that it's almost hair-tracing that this comes only now, and that it's high time. You might think so, but credibility is going to be equal to zero when you had eight years of majority rule without promoting anything near such a proposal. Not only were they allowed to make proposals themselves, but they also actively voted against the 2010 Progress Party's proposal for a statutory, fully-fledged net pay system. Meg was known to be up to several of today’s opposition members in this room as members of the Stortinget in 2010. Then it goes all of a sudden too slowly now. It's not for believers. Norway's maritime competence needs to be further developed if we are to keep up with our competing nations. Work on improving working conditions for Norwegian seafarers is well under way. We will continue to give Norwegian seafarers the security they need, the shipping companies the predictability they expect, and shared the funding needed to remain a welfare society in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e438	The Norwegian maritime industry employs 100,000 people and creates values for 175 billion. kr annually. Such value creation would not have been possible without the Norwegian, world-leading maritime competence. Norwegian maritime competence is essential to maintain Norwegian maritime industry’s greatest global competitive advantage, namely innovation and innovation. We know that a competitive net wage system for Norwegian seafarers helps ensure the recruitment of Norwegian seafarers and thus ensures the foundation for the further development of one of Norway's main industries. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the government has finally proposed a legalisation of this arrangement. Norwegian maritime industry is in strong international competition and must therefore have international conditions of competition in order to maintain the value creation and employment of this knowledge-based industry. It is positive that the net pay scheme has become more competitive by removing the ceiling for a number of Norwegian ships exposed to strong international competition. The legalisation of the scheme is yet another step towards strengthening the framework conditions for Norwegian maritime competence. We know that the Norwegian maritime industry, in particular the part related to petroleum activity, is in the midst of a very demanding period. More and more shipowners seem to have to cancel ships, put ships in storage, quit and permit employees. Today, the Shipowners Association has established its annual conference, and the message from the industry is that unfortunately the situation will deteriorate in the coming year. In such a demanding situation, it is essential to prevent the disappearance of Norwegian maritime core competence. Because when this comes back again, it will be very costly and demanding to build up corresponding competences, and there is an imminent risk that a weakening of the competitiveness of Norwegian seafarers will hit the legs of one of Norway’s most important industries. The Christian People's Party wants to strengthen the maritime industry and ensure that we have Norwegian seafarers in the future as well. We need their skills, and they need to be preserved, even if these are demanding times. The net pay scheme is important and, in order to ensure Norwegian maritime industry, the Christian People's Party believes that the Norwegian net pay scheme must be competitive with equivalent European schemes. We therefore support the government's proposal to legislate this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e451	The centre party says yes to Norwegian seafarers. Norwegian seafarers are absolutely necessary if we are to have a maritime nutrition in Norway. We have to build such an industry on the mix of both practical and theoretical knowledge. If we are to continue to have Norwegian seafarers in the future, we need framework conditions that enable it. The net pay scheme contributes to that. That's why the Center Party has been in favour of a good net pay system, and that's why we're going to do it in the future. Legislation is absolutely necessary, but in addition, political will is needed to bet on the scheme. It's the Center Party. At our national meeting last weekend it was a great commitment for Norwegian seafarers, and we have adopted an offensive programme in this area. The current legislative proposal does not put much emphasis on how to set up the scheme and how strong it should be. It is the political will that will continue to determine how good the system should be. The net pay scheme is linked to the issue of Norwegian pay and working conditions on a Norwegian base. I note that today's majority voted against a proposal in Stortinget to address this question. It is alarming to see that a person fears this knowledge. There is a small error in the configuration. There's a note that says: «The majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, indicates that the option to do so may be reflagged to the Danish Internationalt Skibsregister [[DIS]] The centre party agreed with the Working Party and SV that this was an incorrect assessment, and should have been outside this comment. But now it's ready. The centre party is pleased that the net pay system is now being adopted, and we are joining the proposed decision. But for Norwegian seafarers, I have no doubt that a government shift to the harvest will be important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e471	There is good reason to stress that maritime nutrition has been and is one of the country's most important industries. Together with the marine sector and other maritime and sea-based industries, the maritime industry is a solid basis for Norwegian prosperity and well-being. That's the way it's going to be in the future. Seafarers experienced in Norwegian ships are a valuable resource for the entire maritime cluster and have been important for the preservation and development of Norway as a leading maritime nation, as stated by an overall committee. In the Left's own alternative state budget and in the budgetary agreements with the three other cooperation parties, we have supported the system of net wages for seafarers. In our alternative budget, we have been moving in the last few years from not adding budgetary resources to our budget. Especially in recent years, and the challenges facing offshore companies, we have seen the needs and needs of these shipping companies and crews. Therefore, we have been in favour of net wages and salaries in a difficult competitive situation, although it has not been entirely unproblematic that, for example. the fishing fleet, which competes a lot for the same labour force, is not within such a scheme. So the left believes that there might be good reasons to have such a system, because the international maritime framework conditions are the way they are, but the left does not think it right to legislate such a system, as we write in the text. In a comment in the present position, the Left Government calls on international initiatives to reduce the use of such schemes in order to increase the level playing field between maritime nations. It is a response to those who support the net pay scheme with the argument that we must have the scheme because all the other countries we compete with have such a scheme. So we want a more offensive attitude towards this internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e480	When a follow-up to the debate, there may be two parties one is a little surprised at the positions of, it's the Progress Party and the Left – most likely according to what one should expect of them in these kinds of questions. But before I solve it, there are two of the comments from the Workers' Party and the Center Party that SV should be part of. There is no meaning for the totals you get from the setting, but you should correct it. The point is that the red-green stand gathers about the net pay scheme. It is good that we now legislate the net pay scheme, this also suggested the red-green ones in 2013. It's taken four years for us to get to this day. The big security question is what level this should be at. What should the scope be, and who should this apply to? Does it apply to everyone or someone - or who? What should the scope be like? I think that the starting point here must be that we recognize as a problem that there will be fewer Norwegian seafarers. There is a big problem for the port of Norway, and it connects to all parts of what has to do with the sea – the maritime cluster with the construction of boats. Without the competence we have at sea, we wouldn't be in the front when it comes to boat construction. A decline in the number of seafarers at sea will also weaken the maritime cluster, among others. in the West. This also intervenes in fisheries, farming and offshore. Without a good workforce for Norwegian seafarers – replacing this workforce with more foreign workers with much worse pay and working conditions – these industries will be weakened. Norwegian seafarers are the backbone of Norway's full effort as a port. Norwegian seafarers are under massive pressure. They compete under completely different pay and work conditions, and we know that when it comes to certain working conditions at sea, it is wild west. It's not interesting for Norway to compete with wild-west states out on the ocean. We have to set some frameworks for the Norwegian seafarers. We lose people, it's a problem for the port, it's a problem for the industry and not least for the Norwegian culture we're built on. The government named a selection in 2015 that looked at the situation of the NIS registry. They said that the number of Norwegian seafarers in NIS today is ‘at a critical level, where experience-based competence is in the process of crumbling and key employment segments are in the process of being lost. From the point of view of the sample, it is likely that if no immediate action is taken and a new and competitive scheme is created, the development of the exchange of Norwegian seafarers with foreign escalators will take place at a rapid pace.’ It is therefore urgent for seafarers to introduce a change of government – and for a party that will ensure the pay and working conditions of seafarers. It is this that is SV's starting point, we must ensure Norwegian working conditions in Norwegian waters and in Norwegian waters. It may sometimes seem that there are two different ambitions here; it is those who want the most possible ships under the Norwegian flag, and it is those who want the most Norwegian seafarers in Norwegian waters. SV belongs to the last group. A large fleet under the Norwegian flag without operational Norwegian competence is not on board. The party's involvement in the opposition has been for Norwegian seafarers, not for Norwegian flags. In position, they sacrifice Norwegian seafarers. Let me make it clear that just a few days ago Oskar Grimstad was the local government representative in Hareid City Council, where he supports an interpellation on demands for Norwegian salary and working conditions at sea and on the base. But then we're sitting here today, and Oskar Grimstad is a big-time representative and doesn't go in that direction. I think it's a pity, and I guess those who work on this, and Norwegian seafarers, notice that there's a double standard here – what one does in the local government, and what one does here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e500	The government is pursuing an offensive policy for maritime nutrition. It is important for the government to ensure a large Norwegian fleet with Norwegian seafarers. So it's true to think of both of these, as opposed to what the Knag County said here. The grant scheme is an important instrument for maintaining Norway’s position as a leading maritime nation. We need many skilled seafarers in the time to come, and it is important for the government to ensure Norwegian maritime competence. The Government has therefore strengthened the subsidy scheme for Norwegian seafarers and, in 2017, it has granted SEK 2,1 billion. kr to the scheme. The legalisation of the grant scheme is a direct follow-up to the Sundvolden Declaration and Government Maritime Strategy presented in spring 2015. About 11900 seafarers were covered by the 2015 grant scheme. As a result of a challenging market, there was a decrease in the number of seafarers in the scheme, to about 10,800 seafarers at the beginning of 2016. Since then, the number has increased to around 11 700 after the strengthening of the scheme in March 2016. So we see that these are good effects of the grips we've done. In a difficult industry situation, the number of seafarers in the subsidy scheme remains stable. Norway is a small, open economy and is completely dependent on international trade. The maritime industry is an industry that marks this on the body, it depends on being able to compete internationally. A competitive subsidy scheme is therefore a prerequisite for ensuring Norwegian maritime competence, the recruitment of Norwegian workers at sea and the competitiveness of shipping companies. And, in particular, the legalisation of the grant scheme will increase predictability and more stable framework conditions. The legislative proposal was received substantially well by the hearing bodies which delivered hearing opinions, and support is given in all the recordings to legalise the scheme. The majority of the Economic and Social Committee supports the legislative proposal as presented in its vote. The Working Party, the Centre Party and the SV argue that the grant scheme is likely to have to be complemented by other measures to ensure the future competitiveness of Norwegian seafarers in their own seas and on the base. I agree, and that is why the maritime strategy consists of 69 follow-up points, all of which are about strengthening the Norwegian maritime industry. However, these parties believe that the government should examine the possibility of imposing Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian seas as soon as possible. Last week I had a meeting with the parties in the Maritime Committee. There is considerable disagreement between the parties as to whether this will in fact strengthen Norwegian maritime competence, Norwegian maritime industry in international competition, or whether it would, on the contrary, weaken it. On the government side, we have been committed throughout the government period to reaching the greatest possible consensus on the framework conditions for maritime industry. That is why we are following up the position of the Speed Committee – majority voting – and this is not a point on the list of proposals from there. The flag state principle is an important principle of Norwegian maritime policy. We want to continue the long Norwegian shipping policy tradition in order to promote market access and international free trade in shipping services. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV also ask the Government to draw up their proposal for a regulatory change to the limitations of the sea area for foreign ferries in the Norwegian international ship register. This was a recommendation from the Speed Committee, and in the same way that we are today making the recommendation to legislate the net pay order, we are in line with the recommendation to change the regulatory changes related to NIS. This is about having a comprehensive maritime policy. It is important to ensure that Norwegian flag ferries have competitive conditions. This was the reason for the majority of the recommendations of the Committee of the Regions and for the proposal that had been put to the hearing. We are now going through the recordings that have been made in the consultation round, and we are going back to the regulations after reviewing them. The law is designed to give a statutory right to a grant. The amount of the aid granted shall be determined by the annual budgets of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e523	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e529	I'm very happy that we can adopt this law today, and it seems like it's longed for by all the parties here. That's very good. I have a specific question to the Council of State: Has the Council of State met with any resistance or complications to get this bill in place? It's taken quite a while, and when both the government parties and the opposition have agreed on it since 2013, it's interesting to know what it is that it's taken so long.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e536	Yes, I hear that someone thinks it has taken time, and that you are very impatient during this government period to get what you did not get done. So it didn't take time. That's how we've done things in the right order. So the first thing we did is we put down a range. They delivered their last cancellation in January 2015. In the month of May-June 2015, we presented our maritime strategy. After that time, we have been working to expand and strengthen the net pay system. We've been working on the traffic regulations to change these, and we've been working on a bill. We sent that bill to Stortinget before Christmas last year, and we are dealing with it today. So it's not like that's the size of the legal text that's complicated, but it's about deciding what kind of form and what content a legislative formula should have. But the hearing has shown that this has great support, and I am very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e543	I may not think this was a very concrete answer, but now let's take another challenge that the Council of State was facing. In the Maritime Committee, it was difficult to reach an agreement on the question of the pay and working conditions on a Norwegian base. It's very open to everyone. But now I'm thinking, what's the problem with getting knowledge in place to assess whether it's possible, and whether it's the will and the desire to possibly do such a thing? It's clear that everyone sees that there are two steep parties here when it comes to whether you want to do this or not, but knowledge has rarely hurt someone, so it's interesting to know what the council actually thinks is problematic about getting that knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e550	Knowledge is never problematic to get, if that's what we miss in a matter. That is not the problem in this case. So this is discussed by the Speed Zone Selection. When we set up a joint selection, it was in order to produce the broadest possible basis for a maritime policy. This proposal was discussed, but it did not receive a majority. So we've been trying to be loyal in following up on the Speed Region Committee's setting. There were fragile compromises. It's about expanding the net pay system, it's about strengthening the net pay system, it's about legislating the net pay system, and it's about changing the operating range rules. To answer this question, which has been investigated for decades, is not the challenge. The challenge is that there is a great deal of disagreement about this, and whether it will be legally possible to implement it – and it is therefore only wanted by one of the parties. There's no consensus. It is not sustainable for the maritime industry that we then go in and say that we should still not follow the position of the Maritime Region Committee, we should take a decision on what one party wants. We can't keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e555	Here it became clear that one party is not necessarily what you are listening to, and here it is about employees. It's about our seafarers, that we actually want to build up a policy to contribute to good pay and working conditions for them. And as I have experienced this case – the investigation – it is quite complex. There are a lot of laws to deal with. It's an international perspective on this matter, and I think it's amazing that the Council of States is standing here and saying you shouldn't listen to that party. Is that really what the Council of State means?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e560	What's incredible is that the Workers' Party has a completely different maritime policy in the opposition than in the position – in the position you don't legislate, you don't expand, you don't strengthen. You don't put down a party sample, you lean on the job that a new government does. When we put together a party selection, we listen to the parties. We're not listening to one side. To this end, we have actually implemented the proposals that came from the employee organisations. They're the ones I've been explaining to. That's what we're doing. What the other party now wants is to change our mind. Maritime policy cannot change policies year after year. We must have predictable framework conditions. We don't need investigations. We don't need knowledge. We lack consensus. This was not recommended by the Speed Committee, therefore the government has not followed it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e567	I expect the Council of State to agree that there are too many unemployed seafarers today, and it is expensive to be unemployed. Seafarers need to update their certificates continuously, even if they are unemployed. This could cost tens of thousands of dollars. Here it should be possible to have a better support system to maintain skills while unemployed. My question to the Council of State is, is this something that the government is working on? The danger is that one can simply lose seafarers because they can't afford to update their skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e574	The good news in a difficult situation is that the number of seafarers in the grant scheme remains despite the difficult situation. It's about strengthening the net pay system, so we've got an increased take-up. We see an increasing number of ships flying home. That's also good news for us. Then we see that we have almost 1 300 unemployed seafarers. It's very, very serious, and it's due to the situation in the offshore market. In my meetings with all the players in this industry – because I meet all the players in the industry regularly for recording – I have got the impression that we should now look at the grant scheme related to ‘deep sea’. That's something we're assessing. It is, of course, a budgetary question, but that is something we consider. With regard to the competence of seafarers, we expect them to be cared for through the organisations and arrangements that apply through Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e583	To the last thing, I can say that they don't. We've been in contact with seafarers, and very many of them have to pay off their own pockets to keep up-to-date with these certificates, etc. Here I call on the Council of State to step into the matter. Another question: There is a requirement in NIS that there should be a Norwegian captain, but it is also possible to obtain a derogation. We are sitting on numbers from 2015 that show that more than half of all captains have received a derogation and are not Norwegian. So half of the captains of the NIS system, where the general rule is that one should be Norwegian, are not Norwegian because they have received a derogation. At the same time, the unemployment rate for captains is higher than for a long time. Does the Council of State think this is a system that works well, or will the Council of State do something about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e590	When it comes to the competence requirement, I haven't got it recorded by anyone other than here today. Of course, I'll look at it if there's a problem you want us to go into. As regards the dispensation practices relating to the treatment of the Maritime Directorate, because it is they who are dealing with this, I have gone into it, because I have just received the information the representative also has. This is the way you've been dealing with these issues all year round. So having a liberal practice related to this is something you have long traditions for. We've also checked with our neighboring country. They act the same way. I have not entered into this, simply because it is again about having framework conditions that are competitive with our neighbouring country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e597	The last question to the Council of State is actually a little bit more open, because I want to know a little bit more about what the government is thinking about the future of Norwegian seafarers. Perhaps the framework for such a conversation could be the question: Does the Council of State believe that there will be more or less Norwegian seafarers in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e603	I've never been a fan of driving and divining or speculating as a politician. It's a difficult branch to get into. I hope there's more. I think, among other things, that oil prices rise, that we have large and important investments related to the Norwegian petroleum industry, will contribute to the demand for Norwegian competence, and that is what we are experts on. When we also know that we're getting the ship flag back, and we've made improvements in the grant scheme, I hope that means that we're getting more seafarers and not fewer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e610	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e617	It is very gratifying that the Right-front party government in this proposition is now proposing a new law on the recruitment of workers at sea. The legislative proposal is a follow-up to the Sundvolden Declaration and the Maritime Strategy of the Government, which stresses that the government will legislate for this. The advance arrangement is also an important tool for preserving Norway's position as a leading maritime nation and has been sought by seafarers over time. This important measure will now be put in place. This is an important measure to ensure a more stable and sustainable framework for Norwegian seafarers. The competence and experience of Norwegian seafarers are important for innovation and innovation in the maritime industry. The competence of Norwegian seafarers helps bring practical experience into the supply industry, which in turn makes Norwegian shipping and offshore industry one of the most innovative and forward-looking industries we have. A competitive net pay scheme is therefore important for the competitiveness of Norwegian seafarers. By means of the law, the government is supporting the creation of stable framework conditions. This is particularly important in a time of great uncertainty in the industry. As a representative of the Progress Party, I am very pleased that we are finally getting this law enforcement in place. Unlike the eight red-green years, this government has also raised the roof of the scheme and has thus further reinforced it, which was absolutely necessary after red-green stature for many years. The fact that the Labour Party, when the scheme was introduced, for a few years ago, went against the scheme and called it a special treatment of the maritime industry shows that the Labour Party was initially not so interested in the daily lives of the seafarers. That one is now trying to create an impression of being on the side of the seafarers, by promising to carry out a distribution, says most. There is no security for future Norwegian seafarers in just a distribution or a change of government, for which many are now in charge. It's so that if this was a wish, this plural government would have had a good opportunity to implement what now looks to be a publicization. Publicisation will go across and probably be impossible both legally and in other ways, because one has entered into international agreements that one is required to hold. So tell SV a story that the signatures should have been in a local government. That's right. In Hareid, the local government was asked to submit a proposal for a settlement. I don't mind a statement. That Hareid City Council sends in a proposal for a distribution, I support – that's true – but that doesn't mean that one has a double standard, which SV is once again trying to create an impression of, through its fairy tale.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e634	It is a pity that there will be a very large line of confrontation between the Workers' Party and the Right Party in this matter, but it certainly shows that there is a need for government parties to show that they are here on the side of the seafarers. The Advance Party says – via Bjørnstad – that the Advance Party is the party for seafarers. But they have, even as impatient as they were in the last period, spent four years getting to this law. The party voted against an investigation into Norwegian pay and working conditions on 13 December last year. Oskar Grimstad of the Progress Party votes in favour of the municipal government and against the Stortinget. I think you might have to look at yourself a little bit in the cards too, considering where you're going. The left says they're going for the net pay system, and now they've put it in the budgets. Then I remember that there's a pretty small amount in the budget for the left, but there's a couple of dollars there. Finally, I would like to remind you that in 2005 we extended the net pay system for Norwegian seafarers to cover all competitive speeds in the Norwegian ship register. In this way, we ensured the development of jobs and invaluable competences along the coast. From 2005 to 2013, we increased the sum of the net pay scheme by 60 pst, from 1,060 million. NOK 1 700 million. So it's going to be $1.7 billion. kr. In 2006 we implemented the Hurtigruten in the net pay scheme. We extended the scheme further in 2006 and in 2008 we amended the shipping tax system to prevent the flagging of ships. Then I want to say that in 2013 the Labour Party decided at its national meeting that we would legislate the net pay scheme, we did so. We were in government for just a few months afterwards, and it would have been passed and legalized in the autumn if we had been in government. In 2013, we also started the job of investigating Norwegian pay and working conditions, which, of course, was not the right and the Progress Party was interested in following up, and which they are still clear that they are not interested in getting hold of. But then you may not be able to say that you are the party of seafarers – when you are not interested in having knowledge and getting a system in place to assess whether it is possible to ensure Norwegian pay and working conditions on a Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e653	The Labour Party Else-May Botten asks us to see ourselves a little in the cards. We can do that, and then we have a lot of good things to do here in this room. But if she herself looks a little in the cards and looks at the effect of what she just said, they changed the net pay scheme in 2006 and that time spent a little over 1 billion. kr, and that it went up to $1.7 billion. When they went off, they don't have much to do with their maritime policies. All in all, this has to do with the fact that that system is an estimate for the future, and there's a huge growth in the offshore segment that's made it more demand for Norwegian sailors and an increase in demand for these net pay schemes. Unfortunately, 170 to 180 ships are currently under service and more than 1000 available seafarers. But it's like the arrangements we've put in place today, they're going to be part of and strengthen this in the future as well. So also the Labour Party, and so far also the Centre Party, says here that we fear knowledge that we are against knowledge. That's not correct either. We have the knowledge we need to be able to discuss the consequences of publicising tariffs in the Norwegian sector and along the Norwegian coast. We have the knowledge that we can use the terms that we have, and we can discuss the consequences. But they don't want the Labour Party, they just want to point out that we don't want to do this even more. Then, as was also pointed out by the representative of the Progress Party here, most of those who are in opposition today have actually been very negative to the developments in maritime nutrition and the policies that have been pursued. They were against the introduction of the net pay scheme, they were against the introduction of the tax system for shipping companies, so that they put on that hat today and claim that it is such a very nutritious policy they have pursued for maritime nourishment, I just don't remember.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e664	Right should be right – that's what I think is the starting point from the pulpit. On 16 March, Hareid's local government dealt with an interpellation in which the proposal was that one asked the Stortinget to establish an agreement on pay and working conditions for Norwegian seafarers. That's what Oskar Grimstad supports. On page 3 of this setting, however, the following comments from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV: ‘These members therefore believe that the Government should examine the possibility of requiring Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian coast as soon as possible.’ So Oskar Grimstad didn't support it. Just under two weeks ago, Oskar Grimstad attended the local government meeting in Hareid and said that he supports this, but in this setting he is not involved in such an arrangement. If I had done something like that, I really mean that I should be included here in the hall. It can't be a good thing that one thinks something completely different home than when one's at work at Stortinget. In that case, Oskar Grimstad must be so honest as to say that he agrees with SV, the Labour Party and the Center Party that one should get such a deal, but did not win through in his college, instead of pretending that this is completely equivalent. Because it says black in white in the setting exactly what Hareid City Council asked the government to do, as Oskar Grimstad supports, and it supports the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV, but it does not, the representative Oskar Grimstad. And just to add: net pay is an important travel vessel to secure the part of shipping that is particularly exposed to the negative competition internationally, i.e. working conditions that are far below par, and that are at social dumping level. That's the part of Norwegian shipping we're going to protect through, among other things. net pay. But as Hareid's local government so correctly pointed out, it is not sufficient. If we are really to ensure Norwegian seafarers good pay and working conditions, we need to take another step, and then at least we have to start by figuring it out and seeing if there is a dangerous road. If we don't have to figure out other solutions, because we can never give up Norwegian seafarers. Norway is still the nation and port that we have always been, and we cannot sacrifice it on the altar of international competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e676	The representative Else-May Botten has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e681	I just have to say that the rapporteurs here don't seem very unifying, but you try to create quite strong contradictions. I want to remind the case rapporteur and the Right that when we were in the government, we had a ceiling of NOK 198 000 on the net pay system and the facility on NOR, while the Right proposed both a competence reform and a ceiling of NOK 120 000, which is quite much lower than what was actually in force with our policy. I just want to end by saying that it's incredibly important to predictability for this industry. It is also important to have predictability in terms of net pay, which is important for seafarers, but not least the shipping tax system. To doubt that the Workers' Party has been involved in the shipping tax system, I do not think so. I think we improved it while we were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e688	I need to link some comments to what has been said in the last word changes here. It seems to me a little bit that if you don't have any arguments, you're letting someone out that they're afraid of knowledge. It's become kind of a fixed mantra from the opposition in this hall. Of course, it is not that the position is afraid of knowledge, nor the Progress Party. But we think we have the knowledge we need. We don't want to publish on a Norwegian base. We don't think that's what helps in a competitive international sector. We have international commitments that we intend to follow up. It is interesting to note that the Workers' Party, as when they were in government, was occupied by these obligations, is no longer today. You could say it's taken a long time. Now the matter came before Christmas, and the committee has spent some time. But it's now at least here. They sat for eight years, from 2005 to 2013, waiting for a similar case. It never came. It was then called a special arrangement for the maritime sector of the Workers' Party. So the representative Botten said that they in government worked very hard for the repatriation of ships. Yes, it's quite possible to work for it, but how did it go now? It didn't go very well. This trend has been reversed since the Right and the Advance Party took up the government offices. There is a difference between rhetoric and the policy being pursued. So finally, a visit to SV and the representative Knag Fylkesnes, who says that we should not give up the Norwegian seafarers, and this representative also fully agrees. But if there is something the Norwegian seafarer has to fear, it is that SV will again be in government. If there is something that has driven Norwegian shipping in the last 20 years, it is the oil and gas adventure. It is the petroleum sector that has been operating the Norwegian seafarer for the last 20 to 25 years. If SV comes to the government again, there is a great probability that the light on the socket will be extinguished, and then I do not think the situation of the Norwegian sailor will be better pronounced.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e701	I record in the debate that the Labour Party does not say that they will introduce public administration in Norwegian waters, but will settle it. What is the problem in this case is that one goes around and creates the impression that it is just what one wants, one should have in place Norwegian pay and working conditions on a Norwegian base. It's the impression that you create without putting into practice anything more than that you want a statement. So my challenge to the Labour Party is: will they introduce Norwegian wage and working conditions, or will they just cancel out? It would be very good to get it done. The representative Else-May Botten let the cats out of the bag when she said, "We'll evaluate." Yeah, that's exactly what's wrong. This is a tactical matter in a election year, where one tries to create an impression and a conclusion that one after all is unable to fulfill. Then to Hareid municipal government and the interpellation. Yes, it was an interpellation in which one more thing about wanting to send in a statement about distribution, as I said I was in agreement that it would have to be done. From then to having double standards it's a long way!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e711	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e725	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e739	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e748	The Storting and the Committee have recently dealt with a number of issues relating to nature diversity, national parks, land law and outdoors. The last in the series is the Green and Rasmus Hansson representative proposal that we are discussing here today – and the proposal contains two concrete proposals. One is that the Stortinget asks the government to put forward proposals for the protection of Norway’s last wilderness areas, and the other is that the Stortinget asks the government to submit proposals for measures for a zero vision for destruction of the non-interventional nature and proposals for new guidelines. It is good that the Committee and the Storting are concerned with natural diversity. There is no doubt that global natural diversity is significantly reduced, and that the state of ecosystems in many places has become worse than before. Because although the situation in Norway is more positive in many areas, we also have our challenges. It is worth making the Storting aware that we have made many good and not least agreed decisions in Meldning. St. 14 for 2015–2016, Nature for life – Norwegian Action Plan for Nature Diversity. Here you can quickly name decisions as 10 pst. forest protection based on voluntary protection, aiming at 15 pst. of the degraded ecosystems shall be restored by 2025, ecosystem quality standards, a quality standard for wild rain, assess quality standards for other selected species and – and perhaps my favorite – strengthen the work on an ecological base map for Norway. Without a good map and a good professional foundation, it is difficult to implement protection decisions and ensure natural diversity. In his letter to the Committee dated 20 January 2017, the Council of State writes that he has entrusted the Directorate with the task of identifying the needs for the better care of ecological contexts and how such care can be done. And an almost collective committee expresses expectations for this work. The entire Committee has pointed out that the voluntary protection scheme works well and that the scheme provides for an effective use of the forest protection scheme. Important areas related to areas with a low degree of technical intervention are those that can be quickly assessed for voluntary protection when nature values are threatened by forest construction, the maximum or other measures. In the past, INON, or non-interventional nature, was used as a management indicator in land use. There are differing views within the Committee on whether to continue, to be completely or only used as an indicator, but without any right of objection, as proposed by the current government. I'm assuming that the respective parties will explain their views here. Not surprisingly, I support the government on this issue. There are various proposals in this matter, which I expect those behind them to promote. The plural position of the Committee is that the matter is annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e765	The proposals of the representative Rasmus Hansson in this matter appear to be correct at first sight, but when we look at the context and dynamics of Norwegian nature protection and forest protection policy, it is a little different. We agree with the representative Hansson that there are very few areas left that are untouched, but about half of the wilderness areas are already protected. Several areas not protected will be subject to voluntary protection in due course. The Christian People's Party has always been a driving force for the continuation of voluntary forest protection, which has been a success. The major conflicts between authorities and forest owners have largely disappeared, and a lot of forest has been protected through the scheme. The effort and the use of money may be used on protection agreements rather than on processes. This system must not be undermined, and that is what we think will be the case if we adopt the proposal for the Greens. It would be very damaging for the confidence and constructiveness achieved through voluntary protection, if we were to adopt a different protection regime for this forest. So you get the opposite of what's meant. That is why we do not support the present proposal for a representative. On several occasions, the Christian People's Party has called for a supplementary national park plan, so that we can complete that kind of protection of nature in this country. Unfortunately, it has not yet been adopted, and the votes of the Right, the Party of Advancement and the Central Party were finally rejected in connection with the draft document on the Preikestolen and Eastmark. But even more important is the systematic strengthening of appropriations for forest protection in the budgets. It is based on voluntary protection, and that is the strategy we intend to follow, which we believe best ensures the protection of existing wild areas, but also ensures that wild-field areas increase and increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e778	The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance is pleased that there will be no majority for any of the proposals promoted by the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance. We think the approach angle to the problem is a little bit artificial. Today, Norway has already protected significant areas. But talking about parts of the country as wilderness-like areas that are then going to be exposed to a different type of protection than the forms of protection we have adopted is, in my view, a rather remarkable approach. These are maritime areas such as Inner Trøndelag, which I know well, and Nordland, Troms and Finnmark, which are specifically mentioned in the Document 8. Many of us believe that these areas have not been wild. It is true that there may have been little activity associated with large expansions, but these are not wilderness areas. It has, among other things, have been living areas for the Sami industry, culture and activity over centuries, and using the concept of ‘wild land’ if these areas are a fun way to approach the issue. In addition, the centre party is not particularly enthusiastic about the whole indicator on which a wish is to be based, i.e. non-interventional nature, INON. We think it is an artificial and somewhat striking indicator. Suffering if we've got more cultivation and construction of houses and roads, it's like 100 years ago there were maybe a few roads into some areas, but there was also a little wild land, if one defines wild land by saying that there's forest that's untouched. So to say the whole forested area in Norway was used around 1900. The forest was slippery, and it was an intensive exploitation of forest resources up to about 1900, which led to little species diversity in the forest. In addition, non-interventional nature, INON, is also fussy in the sense that it simply equates simple tractor roads with motorways. It does not capture traditional interventions such as the cultivation and construction of houses, etc., so using the indicator as a measure of what should be so-called wild land or not is fun. It is good that Stortinget is concerned with natural diversity and biodiversity. I think that's important. And there's no doubt that even the untouched forest in a way plays an important role in the diversity of species. There are, for example: much more lying dead in the wilderness-like areas than in the forest, but it is also true that in other habitats, such as rich ground vegetation, is far more abundant in the cultivated forest than is found in wild-field areas. One of the main sources of concern, perhaps now, is that diversity of species is falling into cultural landscapes because one does not exploit the grazing base, its grazing resources in Norway, and thus poses a major threat to biodiversity in cultural landscapes. The central party shares the Christian People's Party's view that if the proposals that lie here had been adopted, it would have been harmful for the process that you have developed in the field of forest protection, which is a voluntary process, which has had many positive aspects of it, and which has gradually, laboriously, built up an increased trust between governments and forest industries that are very valuable, and which one should take care of. The centre party sees voluntary forest protection as a good thing, and we also believe that it should be fully voluntary. We look at the proposals that lie here today, which are devastating given the developments we have seen over the last few years on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e789	On the left, we definitely support what is the purpose of the proposal for document 8, that we must protect more of Norwegian wilderness. We need to take better care of the endangered species we have, and we also need to protect more to preserve the populations that have fallen both in Norway and internationally in recent years. On the left, we focus on the consensus we built last year when we addressed the nature of life message, where there were extensive negotiations and also many decisions made by the Stortinget. What's important to us is that these are implemented and that they are followed up. There's someone mentioned, especially that we have a measure of forest protection of 10 pst. of the forest area, and that we should step up work to improve the state of the ecosystem with a view to 15 pst. of the degraded ecosystems shall be restored by 2025. Quality standards for ecosystems — in particular a quality standard for bogs as specified — quality standards for wild rain, quality standards for other species shall be considered. In this context, more priority species may be considered. More care is provided in protected areas, the Action Plan for Seabirds. And as has also been pointed out in the past, the important thing is to build knowledge with an ecological base map and follow-up of the species database. In the 2017 budget alone, this has been reinforced by 40 million. kr, during which there has been a commitment to classical nature protection in the budgets of 1.3 billion. kr. It's good to have done to the left, and it's important that we now build on what we've now agreed on. As far as voluntary forest protection is concerned, it works well and has to be reinforced in the years to come, so that we get the pace up to the goal. Forest is Norway's most species-rich nature type. It is also important that we follow up on the state-of-the-art processes of complementing protection, which are part of the nature diversity message, and there we point in particular to the fact that there are particularly low-lying and low-lying forest areas that are not protected today. There we also had a discussion a short time ago about the East Mark as a national park, which the Left definitely thinks we should have adopted. It's one thing that we're definitely going to come back to the future. Where we disagree with what the government has done, this redefinition of INNON areas is that it was taken out as management tools. Clearly, INON areas with their categorisation are an important instrument that still needs to be used as a management tool in the years to come. There has been a loss that it has been removed, just as we also point out in notes that there is still a need to have a new supplementary national park plan. It is not the case that national parks today – although they are large areas – preserve the diversity of Norwegian nature that needs formal protection, and we will continue to work to get this work started. In line with the fact that INON has to be something that can be used as an instrument, we will also address the proposal that we are in, asking the government to ensure that the County has a low threshold to promote objections to interference in the wild. This, I believe, is an obvious national interest, and even if one is to listen to local democracy, not all local democracy should be able to override what is clearly national interests. Here it is right and important that the statesmen make the right decisions. Finally, I would just like to point out that on page 3 there is a note on the left hand side. I think it might have stood the Socialist Left Party, but at least not the Left. I want to point out for the record that there is a mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e804	The representative of Ola Elvestuen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e809	What people are concerned about, above all, when they travel in Norwegian nature, is the experience of being out, with nature around them, away from everyday civilization. Nature without significant human intervention is the very core value of outdoor life in which a very large part of the Norwegian population is happy. 100 years ago, more than half of the area in Norway was characterised by such a nature. Today it's barely 11 pst. of the country that is reasonably untouched – at least 5 km from major intervention. This development is moving rapidly around the world. In 2016, Living Planet showed 10 pst. of the so-called wilderness areas of the land disappeared between 1993 and 2009. In Norway, many areas have lost considerable untouched areas in the last 30 years, due to forest roads, cabin construction and a number of other interventions. If that development continues as it is now, it is very optimistic when the Christian People's Party determines that we are going to have more areas. In fact, the opposite is true. When my grandchildren start to leave in the years, there are no such areas left except the national parks. If that happens, a people whose cultural identity is as strongly linked to nature as the Norwegian one will have lost a very great value. I have to remind you that the Norwegian Tourist Association has almost 300,000 members, and that over a million people once a week sit in front of the TV to see Lars Monsen's tours in Norway's last wilderness. During this period, the government has determined that the so-called INON concept should no longer be a governing criterion in land management. At least this concept contributed to some extent to the weighting of ‘unfertility’ as a value in land management. But in addition to this, the government has also weakened the State's ability to object, and the result – one may also assume the purpose of all – is obvious: It is easier to build down Norwegian nature. So the result of this is that a value that has been both great and of course for the Norwegian outdoors, namely that you can find areas of free nature all over the country, where you can simply be something to yourself, will disappear between our fingers and not anywhere other than within the strictly protected national parks. If we base strictly biological, geological and other scientific criteria, as we do in traditional area protection, the distance to the nearest heavy technical intervention does not always say so much about the nature quality of an area. But we all know that if we put one-sided emphasis on natural science criteria in land management, that means we ignore other and very important values. That is why the Green Party has proposed that the government be asked to set the target of not destroying more pristine nature in Norway and finding ways to protect our remaining untouched areas. We have made proposals to contribute to this. Of course, this is no threat to voluntary protection or anything else at all — on the contrary. Outdoors and nature lovers in Norway only notice that only the Greens and, in part, the SV and the Left are voting for these proposals. The other parties shall vote against any proposal to preserve pristine nature outside the protection zones. It is a pity when we know that stopping the loss of consecutive natural areas is absolutely essential to ensuring the survival of animals, plants and ecosystems. Internationally, this loss is enormous, and also in Norway, we have significant problems, to a large extent also outside the culturally affected areas. Norway is one of the few countries in Western Europe that still have significant untouched or lowly affected areas, and taking care of them means taking care of both Norwegian cultural core values, and it also offers great opportunities to develop Norway as a tourist destination. The confusion of the last wild lands leads to the disappearance of an important technical comparative basis for future research. Without non-interventional natural areas, we lose the ability to measure quality in other areas, compared to intact areas. What this proposal is about is the combination of nature and culture. It is to prevent a very important Norwegian value aging between our fingers, and the question we need to address is: Will Norway become a better country on the day larger untouched natural areas outside the protection areas are gone? I take this up with me the proposals that the Greens have alone, and those that we have with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e834	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e839	There will be no walk without nature, says a good slogan, from the Norwegian Tourist Association – DNT – if I am not wrong. Nature is threatened. It's like the WWF estimates that about half of the world's animals have disappeared in the last decades. We experience a dramatic decline in non-interventional nature in Norway, the wild-field nature. This is well seen in the nature diversity message, the government's own map showing just this. And we know that nature is threatened by land-use change. 80 pst. the threat to nature poses the land use change and it is not one decision that threatens nature but the sum of decisions. It's the bit-by-bit changes and bit-by-bit degradation of nature that threatens both species, our animals and the uninterventional and coherent nature, and is thus an attack on ecosystem-based management. This government that is now sitting, i.e. the right-hand side government, occupied by the Christian People's Party and the Left, has weakened the plan and the environmental concerns taken up in the planning work, among others. by transferring responsibility for planning matters from the Ministry of Climate and Environment, which could ensure overall environmental management, to the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation. The second is that they have weakened environmental concerns and the emphasis on environmental concerns in the decisions and objections made by the statesmen. As a result, less emphasis has been placed on the environment in total land management. This right-hand side government has also removed the INON term, the INON term, that is, the term that describes non-interventional natural areas. Let's say that for eight years we were able to be with the Center Party in government, and the Center Party did not get rid of INON areas, but the government that left prisoners has abolished INON areas in administration and as management tools. It's a sad thing, but it also shows us and gives us a clue in which direction we have to go if we're going to be able to do something about this, and to be able to take care of the wild areas in a better way than what we're doing today. I think it is good that the Greens have promoted this proposal. We support the main lines and most of the proposals that have been submitted. I would also say that the note on page 3, to which the Left's Ola Elvestuen was up and talking about, is a comment that we absolutely subscribe. But I think, to be absolutely honest, that the Left should be on that note, for it praises, among other things. Government Bondevik II – and the praise of Bondevik II is not the most natural thing in the world for SV to do – so I think it is absolutely right that the representative Ola Elvestuen should be in there. But I agree with that, and I would like to stress that our government, the Stoltenberg II government, also helped to secure the INON areas as a term that was actively used by the administration. All the suggestions that SV is on have been taken up, so I won't do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e854	I feel tempted to ram up a number of reasons to praise the Bondevik II government, but I will leave it for a later occasion. Let me begin by saying that Norway is to achieve the national and international objectives of natural diversity, as the Stortinget has decided, at the latest in the treatment of the Report. St. 14 for 2015–2016, Nature for life, almost a year ago. The question raised by the representative Hansson about the protection of the last wild lands is therefore important. There is often a link between the absence of intervention and environmental values in an area. Nevertheless, there is no automatic in this. The Government has therefore chosen to assess the environmental impact of actions in each case rather than to link legal and economic instruments directly to the so-called wilderness areas. We are now doing this using more tools. Members of the population shall consider objections to plans for which proposed new land use will conflict with coherent, pristine natural areas and which have important environmental values. Environmental values can be both natural diversity, ecological functions, e.g. for climate adaptation and open-air values. Similar assessments are also made in the establishment of energy installations. This government has allowed to a limited extent new interference in wilderness areas. For example, a requested wind power plant, Whitevola – Grey-high wind power plant in the municipality of Engerdal, was rejected. This would have resulted in a reduction of 26.6 km2 in non-interventional natural areas. The major handicaps of natural diversity, landscapes and outdoor life were highlighted here. In addition, there would be a negative impact on cultural memories, the cultural environment and the tourism industry locally. Many of those who spoke out in this matter just stressed the importance of experiencing pristine nature. However, sometimes the social benefits of the requested measures have been assessed as large enough to allow intervention. The government is working to fully implement the Stortingen decision on the protection of 10 pst. of the forest area. I expect that some of the forest that will be protected is also part of large, coherent natural areas. The absence of intervention is often linked to the fact that areas have been economically difficult to operate in and the likelihood of large environmental values being present in these areas is, as mentioned, high. The nature diversity notification indicates that procedures are to be established to ensure that where Norwegian forests with important protective values are threatened by forest construction or at the highest level, the areas are to be assessed for voluntary protection. This may, for example, apply to large forest areas without technical intervention. The development of supplementary territorial protection plans will also contribute to the maintenance of pristine nature. I made this clear by 21 February this year at the latest when we discussed the proposal for a representative on the need for new national parks. The Directorate-General for the Environment is now preparing the work on this supplementary protection, which is intended to seal the gaps in existing protection. I would assume that there is a greatest need for new protected areas in lower coastal areas, as the 2010 evaluation of the Norwegian Institute of Natural Research showed. The government has set a total of 6 million. in 2017 to develop an EQS on wild fauna and flora in Norway and to establish European wild fauna and flora regions. This is also mentioned in the Report. St. 18 for 2016–2017, Berekraftige towns and strong districts, as the government presented this winter. The Directorate for the Environment has started this work. An expert group of 13 persons has been set up to develop technical bases and quality standards proposals by 1 December 2017. I expect that this work will lead to advice on how to preserve the habitats of the wild clean, so that the wild clean can be secured. In addition, I have asked the Environment Directorate to assess how ecologically important coherent areas can be managed in a good way. The action is part of the follow-up to the big message Nature for life. The main untouched areas may be part of such ecological contexts. The so-called green infrastructure has been part of international environmental policy for several years, and I now consider incorporating it into Norwegian policy. The first phase shall be completed during 2017. It will result in a recommendation on criteria that must underpin the selection of the main ecological contexts of further work. The recommendation shall be based on the best available scientific knowledge. With the tools and measures I have now explained, I believe that we do not need new tools to capture the necessary consideration for a valuable, non-interventional nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e883	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e888	The question of preserving the free nature of intervention is, of course, a matter of plan. It's about whether you open up to building up the nature that's left and that's wild in some areas, or whether you don't. To do so requires approval to do so, local plans, which can ultimately be decided by national authorities. Whether or not you are supported depends on whether or not you are objecting to the County Council, and these objections end up at the Council of State’s table — the Government’s table — in this case the Minister of State’s table. My question then is: does the Minister for the Environment think that environmental concerns are better, worse or just as well as what was done at the time when the Minister for the Environment was also the Minister for the Environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e895	The balance between natural and environmental interests and other important societal interests is made on a case-by-case basis. It is made irrespective of whether the responsibility for the planning is in one department or department. As they were in the Ministry of Climate and Environment – or the Ministry of Environmental Protection, as it was called – that department also had to take full account of it. This is also what we do now when we are in dialogue with both the state and the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation on the individual matters of the plan. Therefore, I believe that the placement of responsibility for the planning matters does not affect the concrete balance in the individual cases. There is an overall assessment with a high focus on nature and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e900	I understand what the Council of State says it doesn't have to matter – or it may not matter. But that's really not what I asked. I think everyone understands that when someone gives someone responsibility for oil expansion – and how one takes the overall responsibility for balancing vulnerable areas with oil expansion – it would actually play a role whether it was Ola Borten Moe or Bård Vegar Solhjell who put the last word in that kind of thing. Intuitively, you would at least think that it was like this. Then my question is: when the Council of State has now been sitting and after all been a member of the government for four years, is it, after the best evaluation by the Council of State, that he believes that environmental concerns are better, worse or just as well over the last four years as it was when the Ministry of Environment was responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e907	I have not gone into any comparative analysis of the total portfolio of planks under the red-green government and under this government, but I am well aware that there were overall assessments under previous governments, and there are overall assessments under this government. So it's like separating layers with SV when it comes to e.g. trust in municipalities and their ability to balance well locally, the confidence that municipalities are able to take into account key national and regional environmental values. We believe in local self-government, and it also gets an impact on the plan. Moreover, there is excellent cooperation between the municipal minister and me, where we have given leadership to the county councillors on the criteria to be used when considering objections, and there is a system that works well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e914	According to the State Council's own Directorate, the Environment Directorate, the proportion of little-affected nature in Norway has gone steadily, staggeringly and unstoppably downwards for a hundred years and is today down to 11 pst. - maybe 10 pst. – of the area. At the same time, new roads, forest roads are subsidized, wind farms are being built, power plants are being built in rivers and streams, cabin areas are being built, etc., and very much of it is being built in areas that are not affected. I guess that's good with 10 pst. forest protection, but this calculation clearly points to the fact that the area of pristine nature in Norway will continue to decline. Does the Council of State have any objective, or formation, of how much untouched nature will be left in Norway in 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e919	We have international commitments to which we relate and which we follow, which set national and international objectives for natural diversity, and if we are to achieve those objectives, we depend on areas to be protected. That is why we have, for example: significant emphasis on intensification of forest protection. Where there were previously cows of forest owners with areas for voluntary protection, we have ‘cut off’ the cows due to greatly increased appropriations. So we are focusing on supplementary protection of areas for which we do not currently have sufficient representative protection. This applies not least to low-lying and marine areas. So that there is a need for protection, there's no doubt about it, but it's the representativeness that's important, and the international objectives we're committed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e926	What the Council of State is talking about is well and good, but it does not have the criterion that it should be, for example. at least 5 kilometres away from major intervention. Very many of the forest protection areas that will come under the voluntary protection scheme will be valuable but small. I draw the attention of the Council of State once again to the number 11 pst., or perhaps even less, in the case of small affected areas in Norway today. What figure does the Council of State think it would be possible for us to have in Norway in 2030? Will it be okay that we have 5 pst. It is a good thing that we have even smaller areas left, or that we have the Council of State, for example. The objective is to maintain the 11 pst. We have now?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e931	With the knowledge that we have today about the global nature diversity situation, we also have a responsibility to help protect natural diversity. But the status in Norway is clearly better than the development we see internationally. I think that more important than putting a number is to tackle challenges we see. We notified e.g. in the outdoor news last year that the cabin building is a challenge, not least in urban areas, where we believe that greater consideration must be given to nature by the municipalities and where we announced that we would be willing to assess a government planning guideline if we did not see an improvement in overall planning for cabin construction. We need to address those kind of concrete challenges. I think it's more important than setting a measurement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e936	It is nice that the Council of State is concerned with biodiversity. I am, too, but I have tried to draw attention to the quality of nature that lies far from heavy interference, and the importance of it for large parts of the Norwegian people – and the outdoor interested Norwegian people. So the council says he's not concerned with numbers in this context. Then it's interesting that his own agency, the Environment Directorate, operates with numbers, that now we only have 11 pst. nature, or perhaps even a little less, that has a reasonable distance from intervention. Is that right, and can the Council of State confirm that it doesn't matter to him what percentage of Norwegian land is far from intervention? Doesn't matter to him if it's 11 pst. 5 pst. or 3 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e941	I can deny that it doesn't matter. But what I'm saying is that rather than focusing on the number sizes and numerical targets for 2030 in this area, we should ensure that we implement the measures and use the tools we have today to ensure representative protection, to ensure representative untouched natural areas, and not least, as I was in the post, ensure coherent natural areas, such as: until the statesmen have said that there is a criterion to be taken into account when considering the objection. It's true in planks, and it's true in energy matters. Using the means we have to ensure protection is what I'm concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e947	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e963	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e972	That marine nesting is a growing and big problem, I think everyone in this room agrees on. The problem is global and has built up over many decades, unfortunately mainly because of people's unwise attitudes, indifference, but also through cynical attitudes towards the environment. I am pleased that both my own party, most of them in this room and the government with the council of state, Vidar Helgesen in the head, have been very committed to this. We know that marine stowage is dealt with in several alerted staging messages. Both the sea notification, the Norwegian Sea management plan and the waste notification have been notified by the government to include important policies in this area. Therefore, my case rapporteur's comments and proposals have largely pointed out that the government is expected to come back to those messages with concrete and good solutions. When a goosebump whale lay and pressed against the springstones at Sotra in winter, it was the beginning of a national awakening on marine nesting. The obviously sick whale was killed, and in its stomach it had no less than 30 plastic bags. It is important to stress that if the offensive action of the authorities comes about a problem at a time of high public awareness, it is easier to understand the implementation of the necessary measures and to mobilise all good forces for action. There is reason to believe that this will lead to increased efforts by both voluntary and professional actors to carry out the cleaning of marine trash at sea and at sea. Therefore, a Joint Committee considers that, to an increased extent, focusing on measures to combat marine pollution will also make it necessary to consider an increase in the overall framework of different schemes where this type of activity gives a right to public support. The sources of plastic contamination are many, and the measures taken must therefore also be numerous. An overall committee also believes that stronger producer responsibility – both for equipment used in the fishing and farming industries and for packaging – can be a proper way to go, and meets with interest the work of the government has begun with a regulation that is currently being consulted. The Committee would stress that different producer responsibility arrangements should not deprive the user of the responsibility for the proper use and management of the product. The Committee notes that the testing scheme ‘Fishing for Litter’, whereby a fishing vessel collects and delivers the waste they receive in the fishing gear, has resulted in 48 tonnes of waste delivered to the receptions in Tromsø, Ålesund and Egersund in 2016. The costs are borne by fishermen, but this does not involve a reward scheme. The Committee asks the Government to consider in greater detail, in the context of the waste and the circular economy, whether this scheme should also be extended to become a reward scheme. We have also noticed that in my own home state, Møre and Romsdal, there has been a cooperation between an offshore company and a company that will invest in large-scale cleaning of waste in the sea. The Committee finds this action interesting and stresses the importance of the use of existing support schemes – and, if necessary, enlargement – to ensure that the concept is fully funded as a pilot project. Fishing for Litter’ findings and beach clearance actions demonstrate that both vessels operating on the Norwegian coast, fishermen and the aquaculture industry are responsible for pollution. A good part of the waste also comes from passing ships that find it practical to discard garbage overboard, instead of taking it to shore reception facilities, and much has also been transported long by sea streams. Once again, the problem is diverse, and the solutions must be. In the budget agreement last autumn, a subsidy scheme was established to increase the collection of discarded recreational boats. I would like to stress that this system must be put in place quickly. That artificial grass courts are also a source of marine litter, I guess the few of us were aware of. It is important to replace the commonly used rubber granules with more environmentally friendly materials. We expect very much of this to have been included in the said staging messages. A specific order is to be submitted with a case concerning the amendment of the pollution law, allowing municipalities to impose an infringement fee on waste disposal cases. Finally, I will address the proposals of which the Christian People's Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e995	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1000	First, thank you to the case rapporteur for a good work on the matter, and for what I think was a very good post here instead. It's easy to join most of what was said. I would also like to thank the Greens for promoting this proposal. This is not, of course, the first proposal from the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Watering our oceans is one of our greatest environmental problems. Soon there will be more plastic than fish in the sea. The case rapporteur mentioned the image of the whale full of plastic bags, which made such a big impression on all of us. There was another strong illustration that this is a serious problem that is still going in the wrong direction. Norway, as a major coastal and port area, should take a special responsibility internationally to be involved in solving the problem. At the end of the day, this problem can only be solved through international work, for waste does not know borderline. We get tired of other people's siblings, and others get the problems with ours. The problem is big and difficult to solve, but there is no excuse for not doing anything. On the contrary, the fact that the problem is big is a reason to do a lot. All the nestlings come from somewhere. We have to do what we can to ensure that it does not come from Norway and that we clean up what we have contributed to. This is, as I said earlier in the post, not the first case of this which the Storting is dealing with during this period, there have been several. The opposition is still impatient, and more concrete decisions have been made. In particular, the use of microplastics in cosmetic products has been prohibited. Unfortunately, we cannot see that the decisions that have been taken have been followed up properly. A few weeks ago, Vidar Helgesen met in the Questionnaire, where the big theme became plastic casting. He responded well to the problem, but had few measures to come along, except to show that they were working on a waste notification. The problem is that that message comes so late in the period to this government — at the very least of the four years — that the Storting cannot deal with it before the elections. It may seem that the government is planning to postpone measures until a new government has arrived. So some of the concrete proposals that we are dealing with today. Fishing for Litter has been a great success. Last year 48 tonnes of waste were collected and delivered to the receptions in Tromsø, Ålesund and Egersund. This shows a high level of social responsibility among fishermen, who are not paid for it, but get paid for it. The Labour Party today, together with the Centre Party, the SV and the Green Party, is promoting proposals to extend the scheme to a permanent coastal reward scheme. It could stimulate even greater efforts, but of course it requires good infrastructure to deal with the garbage you get. To clear our coast, there is today a great voluntary effort by people doing the big job at work. You find teams and associations, schools and kindergartens and people who, on their own initiative, spend a lot of hours cleaning up. They deserve a lot of recognition and thanks for the job they do. At the same time, we should discuss how we can stimulate even more use of volunteering and how we can do it more systematically. The Workers' Party expects to be illuminated in the message to come. Norwegian coastal municipalities have a major responsibility for cleaning up and preventing the emergence of coastal waste. Then they must also have the opportunity and the means to do something about it. The Environment Directorate has proposed to extend the sanctioning possibilities to municipalities, for example: the municipalities shall be able to charge fees. The Labour Party is united with a number of other parties that the municipalities should be able to have that opportunity today. With that, I take up the proposal that the Workers' Party has promoted together with the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens' Greens' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1021	The representative of Åsmund Aukrust has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1026	Plastics and waste in the sea are a major problem. Thank you to the President-in-Office for a good review of the challenges we are facing. The history of Norway is the story of how we have used the sea and managed the huge resources available at sea. We are one of the world's leading nations, we have managed our oil and gas resources wisely, and we have a modern merchant fleet that provides us with great revenues by transporting goods environmentally friendly at sea. Our seafood is clean and gives us good competitive advantage, and we believe that keeping a clean coastline is the responsibility of the administrator. That's why we're concerned that we have to go ahead in the effort for a cleaner sea. A report from the World Economic Forum estimates that it will end up at approx. Eight million. tonnes of plastic in the sea each year. The report estimates a quadrupling of plastic waste by 2050. This is a serious environmental challenge. The amount of plastics in circulation and the proportion of fossil plastics, renewable plastics and the ratio of recycling etc. are largely unknown sizes. More knowledge is needed on the use of plastics by Norwegian consumers and Norwegian industry. It's important that we analyze it, and that it is also included in the communication that is about the circular economy. There are many environmental challenges related to plastics. Solutions are needed both to reduce litter, to increase the use of recycled plastics and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions related to the production of plastics. This can provide new opportunities for innovation, start-ups and green growth. Norway has large biomass resources and can create more jobs and opportunities for the biomass industry in Norway. There are already adequate fossil-free alternatives to fossil plastics, but high costs and regulations that do not promote fossil-free solutions prevent further development. Therefore, a new policy and policy instruments are needed to ensure that fossil-free plastic solutions can win in competition. The polluter pays is an important principle in waste management. In the case of marine litter, this principle is put under pressure because most of the litter is a global problem and requires international solutions. We believe that we need more stringent international regulations to strengthen international efforts. We are pleased to note that Norway is driving international efforts to reduce the volume of plastics in the sea. Norway promoted a resolution on marine plastic stowage and microplastics which was unanimously adopted during the United Nations Environment Assembly in Nairobi, Kenya, in 2014. The government has a strong commitment to this matter, and it is actively working on it. Now in the spring it will come up, and we can discuss these issues where they belong, when we are going to discuss the management plan for the Norwegian Sea, the notification of waste policy and the circular economy and the forecasting of oceans in foreign and development policy. I also believe that we can contribute, when we talk about development work, and take with us the knowledge and expertise we have about waste and waste management, to those countries that need our assistance in the years to come. This by dealing with waste and saying that waste is a resource – not just a problem, but resources on the way – must be taken into account in the work to be done both nationally and internationally. The fact that we can incorporate it into the aid work we're going to do, I think it's also important. There are many measures that need to be taken; there are many systems that need to be sewn together. We think it's important that it is done through the investigations that are now coming. Then we're going to hope that the messages will come, that we're going to treat them well, that we're going to get the treatment and put this in context, so that we get the good decisions that are needed, and that we're also going to be involved in reducing the emissions that are already both nationally and internationally. It will be important to focus on how to get the whole use of plastic, because plastic is a product that is used a lot and that has given us many benefits. Now we see the consequence that we haven't had a good enough policy to deal with this waste over time, and we have to do something about that. It is important to take measures to stimulate the cleaning of plastics that have already entered the sea. We look forward to many actors working actively on it, and it should be possible to get good processes around it. Most of the proposals we will come back to when they are addressed in relation to the issues that the government has notified. We think it makes sense that we are discussing solutions in the processes involved in the waste notification and the other messages we are going to deal with here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1051	Increased knowledge of marine litter and microplastics has also raised our concerns about what problems this creates in nature. Sophistication of the marine environment is a major challenge, both nationally and internationally. The Progress Party is concerned about what environmental problems this poses for animals and plant life. In Norway, the prevention and accumulation of plastics — both on beaches, along the coast, at sea and on the seabed — poses a fast-growing environmental problem. Major actions are needed under the direction of municipalities, outdoor councils and others to remove trash both on beaches and on many inaccessible sites. Public authorities, in cooperation with local forces, must ensure that clearing takes place. At the same time — when focusing on this national context — there is no doubt that in order to achieve a long-term and permanent solution for the control of plastics and microplastics, work must also be done internationally. There is no doubt that Norway, as a significant fishing, farming and coastal nation, has great obligations to maintain a clean sea in the future. Everything else will hurt us as a nation, and it will hurt all of the fauna and flora that's out there. I think we're all going to take over and agree that plastic and microplastics are perhaps the biggest environmental polluter we have, globally, in the world today. The Progress Party will refer to the important work that Keep Norway Clean is doing, by engaging and by mobilising, among other things. the annual beach cleaning day around the country. This year this beach cleaning of the stack goes on Saturday, May 6th, and is arranged with this for the seventh consecutive year. The Progress Party wishes to strengthen and support grant schemes for private clean-up measures against marine trash. Since 2014, the Progress Party, together with the cooperation parties, has been well-informed to earmark funds for action against marine pollution. Only for 2017 it has been allocated 35 million. kr, for which private, state, municipal and county enterprises, non-governmental organisations and associations and non-profit institutions serving households may apply. It shows that we're taking the problem seriously, and we've more than doubled the amount since last year. I have not been in – and talked about – wreckage arrangements for small boats, which are now under construction. It is clear that this could also contribute to the reduction of the pollution of plastics and microplastics in the sea. This has been and will be a priority area for today's government, because I think all of the parties that make up this -- let's call it the coalition -- are very aware that this is the world's biggest environmental problem, and will be it for a long time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1068	I would like to offer some praise to the proposer, who has promoted a good and important proposal that gave us the opportunity to discuss a number of things related to marine pollution and sea and coastal pollution. The centre party supports many of the proposals. This is a serious problem, but what's kind of encouraging is that there's a lot that can be done, and that many of the things that are possible to do, aren't very expensive either. Both the question of the return arrangements, the "Fishing For Litter", mortgage schemes and the kind of things and also the possibility for the municipalities to fine are things that make it possible to do something in this area without having to cost a lot of money. So it's clear, as some have said, that it's maritime dependent also on international cooperation, but let's not push the national issues into international cooperation, because here there has to be a cooperative between what we do nationally and what we do internationally. And there are many individual measures that can be implemented nationally. Unfortunately, not so many of the proposals get a majority. The Right Party and the Front Party shall wait for all the messages to be submitted, and the Christian People's Party and the Left Party shall alternate, so that one jumps from different proposals, so that the Government will not suffer any defeat in the Storting. It's a strategy every now and then. It's a little sad that that strategy is making a proposal like this, because we're not sure we're going to have to discuss this issue in full scope until the collapse session is over. If it is such that the government maintains that the notification of waste and circular economy is not submitted until June, there will be no treatment in Stortinget. Then there is only a speculative grip from the government to say that one has submitted a message, while the message is being drawn three weeks later. A message presented in June 2017, just before a big shot, is going to be withdrawn when we split up on 21 June. It's not going to be treated. One is going to have to re-promote such a message, the one in government, if any, for the harvest. Then it's true that we can discuss it in connection with the Norwegian Sea Management Plan, and we'll try to make the best possible use of it. But actually, it's not that message, that question, that covers this whole issue. It includes the management plan for part of the Norwegian sea areas. It is true that the big banging news about the sea has some of these issues in it. It shall not be dealt with at all in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection; it shall be dealt with in the Economic and Social Committee. The hundreds of millions you've put out there have a right from the aid budget. There are aid payments to be used for international cooperation. What's true here is that the government is really taking away from us the whole opportunity we should have to discuss these issues in this session. It's sad. However, it is all the more important that the Green Party promoted this Document 8, and that one also had the opportunity to assess some of the concrete measures that could be implemented. As I said, the Central Party is positive to several of them, and we think it is a pity that no more of the proposals can also reach a majority in this Chamber today. I am addressing the proposal that has been made by the Central Party together with the Green Party, which is natural for me to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1087	The representative Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1092	The Left too will commend the representative Rasmus Hansson of the Greens for promoting this proposal. That's not what Arnstad's representative claims, that this is the only opportunity we have to discuss marine pollution. The left has used this period for e.g. the adoption of a ban on microplastics in cosmetics. We have put in place an action plan against microplastics. We have had an impact for a wreckage arrangement for boats. A grant scheme for action against marine litter has been established and has been put in place from 10 million. NOK 35 million. kr to that scheme. So it's the way we're developing this as a growing problem. Every year there are several million tons of garbage in the world's oceans. In Norway, there are more than 8 000 tonnes of garbage each year. These are big dimensions we're talking about. We are involved in some of that ourselves, either by buying too much or by throwing too much before we have used it. Industry accounts for a substantial part, and we must remember that agriculture also accounts for a substantial part of the waste. In the 1970s, we had a large dairy operation in Norway to clean up the mess. This is also about lakes. Two weeks ago I asked the Council of State if we have any monitoring of plastics and microplastics in e.g. Mjæsa. The Council of State replied last week that there is no such thing as today. I understand that developing such monitoring programmes is a challenge, but it is part of what we have to do to get control of the situation. Several schemes and proposals have been mentioned here. A scheme that I have not heard so much discussion about is a label scheme of e.g. plastic, so that we can track those who leave behind plastic in the sea, for example, and then we can use it as a tool to impose fees and fines, as there is a majority for here. The left supports that we ask the government specifically to explain how the free supply of marine waste should be organised, and to promote a case on the amendment of the pollution law, allowing municipalities to impose infringement fees on waste disposal. It will apply to the coast and the sea, but also to fjords and rivers equally. Then there are several schemes that we will continue to discuss, and as mentioned, several of the major messages are an important opportunity to put in place a long-term strategy and plan. This is not the occasion to discuss how we should spend money. We have to do that in the context of the state budget, and we can compensate for a little bit of the revision. But it is a responsibility for the Storting to get money in place both for better monitoring and for a variety of different schemes, and to strengthen cleaning arrangements, because we see today a great desire to contribute. Mobilising volunteering is also an important part of the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1108	Does the representative, Mr Kjeseth, wish to make suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1113	I would like, on behalf of the Left, to address the proposal we have made together with the SV and the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1118	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1123	Nature is threatened because people and business treat the sea as a solid forest site. The idea seems to be that as long as it's out of sight, it's out of mind. The one who has written the best about this – and since it is approaching Easter, I might as well make a recommendation for Easter literature – is a guy named Frank Schästing. He has written the book Svermen, about how nature strikes back at us because we treat it in such a sad way. So we do that with the sea, as I said. I just want to start -- since this is the day to be out -- by telling the Council of State that Norway has done a good job putting the question of watering our oceans on the international agenda. But my exorcism extends so far, because when it comes to domestic policy, it is tame. It is symptomatic that when the government presents a sea report, they are able to give priority to international efforts to combat plastics in the oceans in the rest of the world, but they do not have the ability to provide a big shot that takes this problem seriously here at home. On the contrary, we are told that what we are going to do outside, we are able to finish here at Stortinget before Easter, but what is about sweeping for our own door, which is a good principle in terms of bosses, is delivered to Stortinget so late that after all the sun brands we are not allowed to treat it before the summer. On Friday, the Council of State announced the launch of an assistance programme and international efforts should be stepped up and continued. That is good, but in Norway the policy is too late. This is in stark contrast to what many other countries are doing. Already last year, at the UN General Assembly Summit Week, the United States announced their ambition to halve the plastic emissions to the sea by 2020. France has already banned plastic bags. These are just some examples of how other countries take concrete action, but where we are in Norway because the government does not deliver on cleaning and sweeping at its own door. I think it is a pity that not the Council of State, when he sees that he himself does not have the ability to deliver policies in time for the Stortinget, signals to the Stortinget that several of the proposals promoted in an affordable way by Rasmus Hansson are something one should be able to join already now. For this purpose, proposals which have been examined by the Environment Directorate and which have been consulted and which should be possible to support already now. I am glad that today in the Stortinget this is a majority for an infringement fee, so the municipalities are given the opportunity to fine those who cast bosses in the wild. I think it is worth pointing out that the Stortinget, in connection with the outdoor communication, made clear that we want municipalities to have the opportunity to finance the cleaning of the beach zone and in open air areas above the renovation fee. But it's not the majority for mortgage cooperation with the Nordic countries. There is no majority in favour of ‘Fishing for Litter’ becoming a reward scheme to be continued and strengthened. There is no majority for a producer liability scheme. There is no majority in favour of an increase in the mortgage on bottles, although it has remained at rest for several decades. There is no majority for testing multiple alternatives to rubber and plastic on artificial grass courts. And it's worth mentioning, since Kjeseth said that they had a majority to ban microplastics in cosmetics: No, the Stortinget has asked the government to come back with a case to the Stortinget "with a view to" banning microplastics in cosmetics. But the government is promoting it so late that the Storting is not going to introduce it as requested by the majority and a unanimous growth, namely a ban on microplastics in cosmetics. That's the way it goes when you insert those who are slowest in the class and the worst to do a clean-up, to rule the country. Then, unfortunately, you're the world's champions in the world, but you don't get to the Norwegian championship in the clean-up at all. It's a shame for the environment. Then I will address the proposals on which SV stands alone, and the proposal we are dealing with with the Greens/Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1144	Then the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1149	President and dear grandma! Now let's learn this lesson soon: when we produce synthetic drugs that can't be broken down into nature, and make them very useful in all kinds of production around the world, and then dump them in nature, we build up a problem that eventually becomes gigantic – and very, very expensive to solve. The plastic problem is a brilliant example of what we have been sitting quietly and seen coming for decades after decades. It's been a matter of course that what's now happening would happen, and I hope that we can now gradually decide that we won't do this again. Then it's a nice thing that biging and government now sees the seriousness. It's a little sad that it's caused by a nebb whale that incidentally stranded at Sotra. I'm afraid that the engagement would not have been exactly the same without that whale. But now let's go, now we've come to the same phase that we're in in the climate issue. The recognition that the problem is big is there, the verbal promises of doing a lot are there, and the measures are not at all consistent with the size of the problem that we're going to have to solve. The plastic problem is going to get much bigger before it gets smaller, because it's going too slowly. I acknowledge to the government that I would like to address many of the issues and measures that we are proposing together with several other parties in this matter, but note, like several other speakers, that the concrete measures taken by the government are announced in communications so late that at best it is extremely doubtful whether they are implemented at all by this government. It's the best – or the worst, because you choose – the goal you can get at the government's real will to do something about a problem they say is very big. The Christian People's Party and the Left must take their share of the responsibility that after four years we have come into that situation, with what the Party's representative rightly points out is probably the second biggest pollution problem in the world after the climate problem. We fully agree on this, the representative Fredriksen and I. We have put forward proposals for measures that are being downgraded. Extending the 'Fishing for Litter' is a proposal supported by the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, but the government side is voting it down, in that they come forward with the same proposal later. This is a somewhat sad variant of and a sad example of how politics is taking place on the Stortinget, and should not take place. We propose to put in place a producer liability regime for equipment used in the fishing and farming industries, which is the industries that are really syllable if the plastic problem in Norwegian waters does not come under control very quickly. But the government side is voting down this proposal because they want to investigate it. We propose stepping up subsidies against marine pollution. The Committee is pleased to note that ‘increased focus on action against marine pollution will also make it necessary to consider an increase in the overall framework for different schemes where this type of activity gives the right to public support’, i.e. not violently action-oriented. We are critical of the fact that so much important policy is voted down when it could have been voted on, and there could have been some force behind the measures. Then we are pleased that the Storting acknowledges the problem at least, but there is no doubt that the Storting will have to meet many more times to discuss measures against the plastic problem, at a completely different scale and at a completely different pace than what we are discussing now. Then I take up the proposals No. 9 and 10, from the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1168	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1173	Plastic is an important material in today's society, which many have been involved in, but it also contributes to very major environmental challenges. Large quantities of plastic end up in nature every year, not least as marine litter. We should also remember that the production and combustion of plastics leads to significant greenhouse gas emissions. Marine pollution and the spread of microplastics are a threat to marine and coastal wildlife, to world marine food resources and to the use of coastal and marine areas by humans. This is something the government is very concerned about and actively follows up. Plastic waste is transported by sea currents between countries and continents, and more than half of the plastic waste comes from a few countries in Asia. It is therefore necessary to work internationally. Norway helps to put the problem on the agenda and to produce knowledge and decisions in the United Nations Environment Assembly. Following a proposal from Norway, an international investigation on the need for enhanced coordination and development of international legislation should be carried out, including whether a new global legally binding agreement should be developed. And let's say that we did this a long time before the "plastic whale" signposted ashore at Sotra. We are also setting up a 100 million aid programme. to measures to reduce waste volumes and improve waste management and other measures to reduce marine pollution. Norway has taken the initiative in promoting a Nordic effort to combat marine pollution of microplastics. There is also important cooperation with the countries around the North-East Atlantic through a regional action plan on marine pollution. And we emphasise dialogue with the EU on this issue. Good waste management is the most effective approach to plastic waste disposal. It must also be cleaned up in the already existing pavement. Although the waste system in Norway works well, further measures are needed to limit plastic waste disposal. In particular, there is a need for instruments to combat the spread of microplastics. The Directorate for the Environment has drawn up action assessments with a number of concrete proposals. These policy assessments and the increasing knowledge in this area have given us a strengthened basis for action. Thus, we asked for these action assessments from the government – again – long before the Sotra whale made this a major national theme. Several of the measures proposed in the proposal for a representative today are already being followed up. So it is completely wrong when it is said that little happens, and that we are waiting for the production of groceries. I have asked the Directorate-General for the Environment to draw up proposals for a producer responsibility scheme for equipment from the fisheries and farming industries. The aim is to give producers and importers responsibility for the products throughout their lives, even when they have become waste. The environmental authorities’ pilot project ‘Fishing for Litter’ is a project in which fishermen collect and deliver waste they get in fishing gear during their normal fishing. They contribute to voluntary efforts and deliver the waste free of charge in some selected ports. I have asked the Environment Directorate to investigate a system based on this project to ensure that fishermen and others can deliver such waste free of charge. I refer to the fact that the majority of the Committee considers that setting up the scheme as a reward scheme should be considered. I do not think that is an appropriate way to solve the waste problem. Degradation of plastics in the sea is the largest source of microplastics in the sea. In addition, a number of land-based sources are coming. In Norway, wear from car tyres is the largest. Microplastics from artificial lawns, paints, maintenance of boats and ships as well as synthetic textiles are also central sources. I have asked the Directorate-General for the Environment to investigate ways of washing the road and possible cleaning solutions that can capture microplastic articles in the most trafficked areas. The Directorate will also explore ways of reducing the spread of rubber cullet from artificial grass tracks and the possibility of replacing them with more environmentally friendly alternatives. The Committee points out that municipalities should be allowed to impose an infringement fee on waste disposal cases. We are doing this well. A new basis for this in the pollution law is to be assessed in the department. I am concerned about presenting the Stortinge on this important topic, because we have thus started work on a number of measures. In the spring session, I will present a big message on the update of the Norwegian Sea Management Plan, where the status of Norwegian seabeds will be thoroughly reviewed. We have also announced a comprehensive plastic strategy in the waste policy and circular economy. This does not mean that the measures await these messages, but the notification of waste policy and circular economy is a natural place for a comprehensive plastic strategy, and that is why we are working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1203	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1208	We look forward to getting the management plan. I remember that it was something the government initially wanted to cancel, but Stortinget demanded a management plan during the period. We want to be prepared to discuss the dumping of the seas in connection with that message, but I imagine that we can have a somewhat similar discussion to that one today, that one points further to the waste notification. When the Council of State met in the Questionnaire, he got a number of specific questions. In every answer he pointed to the waste notification. The most concrete thing he said was that – when Marit Arnstad asked questions as to whether it could be relevant to submit the message so early that the Stortinget could be dealt with, as it was a great wish, and all parties, with the exception of the Right Party and the Advance Party, wrote it in his comments – it was he ‘will to look at’, and he would look further at whether it was possible. So my question is, has the Council further looked at this – and will it be possible to deal with the forecast before this ageing period is over?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1215	I have gone into this carefully and believe that if we are to have a message that is knowledge-based, where the necessary investigations are made, instead of making more symbolismal measures, we need time, which means that we cannot present it until the end of May or in June. That means it can't be treated in this period. But while I have made that assessment, I have also launched the Environment Directorate, as I mentioned in the article, with a number of concrete measures that they are now going to propose – producer responsibility for the fishing and farming industry, system for the free supply of marine waste in ports, measures against the release of biofilm carriers from sewage treatment plants, instruments for increased road washing, solutions for microplastics in overwater from roads, measures to reduce the spread of rubber cullet from artificial grass tracks, regulation on pollution from small boat ports. A number of measures are underway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1223	The Council of State warns against symbolic policies and believes that if there were something the opposition is proposing now, it would be symbolic. Well, then I don't know what to call it to present a message that you know is going to be drawn, and that won't be dealt with until the new government is in place, but at least that's symbol policy from the Council of State and government. Then my question is very specific, and it is about a decision that the Stortinget made on 23 May 2016, asking that Stortinget get a case about banning microplastics in cosmetics. If I then understand the state council correctly, he believes this is something that will be included in the waste notification and therefore will not be able to be assessed before the autumn of 2017 when a new government is in place. Does the Council of State believe that there is a good implementation of a decision by the Stortinget on 23 May 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1230	Let me first say that in the case of microplastics, it's important to be clear what are the main sources. So the largest source is plastic that floats around the ocean, that's on the beaches, that wears between sand and rocks and salt water and turns into microplastics and rinses back. From the ground it's wear from car decks, it's granules from artificial grass tracks, it's our fleece jackets, it's contamination from paint and it's pretty far down on the list comes microplastics from cosmetics. So there's a reason why we want to see these things in context and put the effort where it means the most. Another important consideration, especially when it comes to cosmetics, is that we don't produce a lot of cosmetics here in the country. This is a theme suitable for European legislation. It will be EEA-relevant, and therefore this is a topic on which we are in dialogue with the EU – and also with our Nordic neighbours.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1239	It was really the last question that made me take the floor, because the decision from Stortingen is not an assessment of whether we should have a ban on microplastics, that is, that we should have it, and that is what must be the case. It's about how we're gonna get this done. Although Norway is not a large producer country, a ban has also been adopted by large producer countries. The United States has, among other things: done the same, so that it is fully possible to implement a prohibition. My question is then: does the Council of State agree that what the task has been given to the Council of State is how to implement a ban, and not a new assessment on?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1256	I have definitely understood that mission. The discussion in the previous question was probably more about why this takes time, and a great deal of emphasis was placed on the date on which the decision was taken. It is important that we look both at different measures, at different sources of microplastic pollution, and at which measures are most relevant to them. As regards cosmetics, this is clearly an issue that will be EEA-relevant, which should therefore be addressed in a European framework and where we are also in dialogue with Nordic neighbours on possible legislative initiatives. It is quite right, as the representative points out, that in other countries, for example: USA, there have been discussions about banning microplastics in cosmetics. It is also an area where, in my opinion, it is relatively easy to find alternatives to the plastic. So I'm not opposed to this prohibition, but it has to be implemented and developed in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1261	There has been a pattern in which the government systematically leaves it to follow the decisions of the majority of the population, even unanimous decisions, as in the question of microplastics, and where one pushes on it until later. Now it is assumed that it will be so late that it will not be possible to deal with it at Stortinget. The second systematic feature is that we have a former EU minister who has obviously become so afraid of the EU that anything that might be contrary to existing EU law is unwilling to implement. One was biofuels and to check the possibility of ensuring follow-up to the size decision that all biofuels should be covered by the sustainability criteria in the EU. The second is that a microplastic ban on cosmetics may be relevant to the EEA, and therefore we will not do anything until we have done anything with the others, or have convinced the EU to ban it. After all, it is not to follow the decision of the Storting. My question is then: Is it possible to bring in everything there is to change the law before Easter, so that the Storting can deal with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1266	We should agree that the most important thing is to get something done about the problem, and if we are to get something done about the problem – microplastics in cosmetics – we have to work for a ban that goes on manufacturers where they exist. It is then obvious that in the European context, it is best to have a European ban, and that a Norwegian ban nationally will have much less importance. That's one of the reasons why we take time to figure out what it is in the follow-up to the Storting's clear decision that will give the best results, in line with the Storting's intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1271	I fully agree that it is much better to get many to do something that is good than to do something that is good. But some of us have the ability to have two thoughts in our head at the same time and are not just one-track mind. If we introduce national restrictions, a national ban on microplastics in cosmetics, based on what we believe are health recommendations and general environmental needs, while at the same time working to get more international in order to get a majority for this in the EU, we will be doing more than just waiting for the EU to do the job for us. That's why I don't understand the government's passive approach to this. But let me repeat the question. The council believes that he is not calm and waiting because a good part of the things that will be presented in the paper will be the regulatory treatment of things with which the government has the authority to proceed, regardless of whether we are dealing with things in Stortinget. But when it comes to legislative changes, the Council of States can present it to the Storting, so that we can deal with it during the spring session – because otherwise it will be put on hold?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1278	I maintain that we are working on the follow-up to Stortinget's decision on microplastics in cosmetic products. I also maintain that this should be seen both in the context of other actions and in the context of international action, including – and not least – in the European context, and that we need to take the time needed to ensure legislation that is effective in combating this problem. Therefore, I cannot now say anything about when such a bill will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1283	In addition to the measures proposed by the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/ Greens/ Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European The government has voted against this, bearing in mind that a resolution has been promoted, and that there is an investigation of the possible conditions for creating an international convention. Is the Council of State satisfied with the progress of international work, or does he see any more offensive initiative than to await an investigation into the need for international cooperation in the field of plastics?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1288	I am not satisfied with the international drive forward in the fight against plastic waste and microplastics, and that is precisely why I have placed great emphasis on this internationally, both in my dialogues with the EU and in the UN context. It's not like we're waiting for this investigation. We took the initiative in this investigation. We fought hard to get a majority for such an investigation at the United Nations Environment Assembly, precisely because there is considerable resistance. It won't be an international convention for Norway to propose it, but it could be an international convention if we take the steps necessary to get enough countries with us, and that's the way we work internationally. Thus, we have been given the backing of a global investigation to assess the need for a binding global agreement to combat the plastic pollution problem. Once that investigation is in place, we will consider what steps we will take to overcome this problem. But we can't just do this convention process. We must stimulate action. That is why, among other things: has set up this new assistance programme, because it needs to be done now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1293	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1307	It was really just a brief comment on the Council's response to a reply from the representative of Åsmund Aukrust, where the Council of State says that one must try to avoid introducing symbolism policies. I think it's a little daring to come to Stortinget and kind of warn against it, when the Stortinget has asked for a long time, for example. a notification of waste, has requested proposals on the circular economy. Various measures have been requested in the area we are talking about now. And the constant answer from the government is that one does not come back with anything to the Storting. So it's starting to be a pattern that's pretty serious, and it's kind of urgent. I would say that although the Labour Party does not vote for all the proposals in this vote, none of them are initially symbolic proposals. There are proposals that the Stortinget is committed to implementing, with different inputs to it. So I want to ask you not to call proposals from the Storting symbolic, and rather try to materialize, concrete and present something to the Storing under your own control.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1312	I agree with the last speakers that the waste notification should come earlier, so that we could deal with it during this large-scale period. Nevertheless, I believe that precisely when it comes to the fight against marine pollution, we have taken many steps in this process. Because it's actually that from the previous period there was no funds directed at marine littering in particular. That was something that was started in budgetary negotiations during this period, quite a small amount, but also deliberately, with 7.5 million. kr, precisely because we need to build up a system and a support system in view of what are the next steps we are going to take. But we've doubled this every year, and this year it's up to 35 million. kr. And I think you're really starting to see the result of the bet also in the activity that is. At the same time, measures are being expanded to include ‘Fishing for Litter’, which has been put in place, and new ones have also to be expanded. We have also focused significantly on microplastics, among others. with a proposal for a ban, while the most important also there, including in terms of volume, is an action plan on microplastics, which is about this having to be carried forward in the years ahead. So I have to say that just in the case of microplastics, there is something that we have at least managed to raise a discussion about, and we have also managed to get significant measures, a pattern and a direction of the work that we are going to do – especially within this field. Then it is clear that one thing is what Norway is capable of — one needs an international convention, and one needs to systematically strengthen it further in the years to come. But there's a lot of initiatives, and compared to what it was before, there's definitely been a significant rise in the course of this magnification period. I have to say that the Left is well pleased with what we've been given, and this is about now, what big steps are the next we have to take – the next big period – for what is a huge problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1319	I just have to get corrected if it's stuck up an idea that I called the Bighold's decision on microplastics in cosmetics "symbol policy". No, I didn't. I think it's a real problem. A ban will be a feasible measure, but it should be done in the right way. But we have to make sure that we have the necessary knowledge when we act and before we act, in the work against plastic removal, and not least in the case of microplastics. There have been many good-sounding proposals in the debate, but as I believe they will be symbolic policies. One of them is when someone suggests – I do not think the proposal has been tabled in this Chamber, but in the public debate – the ban on plastic bags. Plastic bags play a major role in national waste management in Norway. That will probably not be a good proposal. When we put so much emphasis on knowledge, it's because this challenge has things going on that we don't have enough knowledge of today. When we, on the part of the government, asked the Environment Directorate for an action assessment, we did not know that the largest land-based microplastic source in Norway is car tires and wear from car tyres. Now we know that. Then we know that it's the most important single area where we have to put an effort. Therefore, this type of analysis of measures is important. On the basis of that analysis of measures, I have set the Environment Directorate in motion to examine proposals for concrete measures. So I fully agree with the representative of Elvestuen: we are doing well. We, the government and the cooperation parties, have been kicking off a lot in this period, both internationally and nationally. And that work is going to continue, because this is in the interests of the environment as well as in Norway's national interest, as a major maritime nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1328	I'll be brief. Since the Council of State underlines that he is doing so much, there is no need to wait for this big message, for there is so much activity, and that he takes what the Storting says, in the greatest seriousness, I find reason to ask the following questions, for this was one of the things he did not mention in his outlining of all the things that he did not think were symbolic politics, but which he thought were proper politics, which he would do himself. In the context of the open-air notification, the majority of the Stortinget – and note that it is the majority of the Stortinget, not just the majority of the Committee – said that ‘municipalities are to be given the power to penalise sewage’, which is what we are repeating today in the form of a decision and requiring the government to put it in place, and the second was ‘the possibility of financing cleaning through the renovation charge’. Then I ask the Council of State: does the Council of State work with the investigation, in order to implement what Stortinget has said, that municipalities will have the opportunity to finance cleaning through the renovation fee?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1335	As I said already in my post, the Environment Directorate has already proposed a new basis in the pollution law that allows for the use of an infringement fee, among others. in matters of illegal smuggling. There is now an assessment in the department. To the second question, I can say that we are working on a proposal for a change to the pollution law, which allows municipalities to finance the obligation they have to clean up public exit points and other heavily visited places, through a fee. So these measures we are doing well in the follow-up of.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1342	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 6 and 7 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1369	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1378	Since I disagree with the government and the majority in the Chamber on this matter, and rather have a desire to be the Ombudsman for my own people in Finnmark, I expect the parties supporting the agreement between Norway and Finland on fishing in the Tanavasstraket to take their own views into account in the matter. I do not know exactly why or when in the process it has gone so wrong as it has done in the negotiations on a new border agreement with Finland. Whether this is due to ministerial arrogance or a lack of political leadership, the seventh and last guess is, since there has been no fly on the wall during the negotiations. But from my point of view, most of the mission, folk culture and respect for the Finnmark population have remained in Oslo – which in turn has meant that too many people who are directly affected by the agreement, in Finnmark and after the Tanavas Treaty, are frustrated, cursed and feel completely overwhelmed in the matter. And when it's said, there's absolutely no one who doesn't realize that there's a great need to reduce the fish pressure in the Tanavas. On a case-by-case basis, we experience that the Council of State emphasises the importance of local consensus, and that local democracy should be heard – at the end of the day in connection with the East, municipal freedom on the issue of snowmobile loops or plans to extend the Anárjohka National Park, which was stopped due to strong local resistance to this. These are opinions and principles I put myself all the way back and parts. It is then strange that in the agreement with Finland on fishing in the Tana language, such principles are not taken into account at all. On the contrary, the Council of State and the Ministry of Climate and Environment choose a line and an attitude that is almost a confrontation or a war against all locals to force the matter and its will through. It can be mentioned here that, after the watercourse, on both sides of the national border, absolutely all the organisations involved are opposed to this draft agreement. Both the Finnish and the Norwegian compounds depart from the agreement. All municipalities on both Norwegian and Finnish sides after the watercourse reject the agreement. The democratically elected TF, that is to say the fish management of the Tanavas Treaty, is opposed to the agreement. The county has opposed the agreement, completed the same thing, and last but not least a total of Finnmarks bench of big business politicians in January 2017. In addition to this, we have the Act on fishing rights in the Tanavas Treaty of 20 June 2014, in which a unanimous increase in Section 6, third paragraph, adopted the following wording: ‘The preparation of regulations and negotiations with Finland on fishing in Salmon-bearing parts of the Tana River Strip shall be carried out in consultation with the Tana River Strip Fisheries Management and the Sameting.’ So you can start wondering if this has been followed up. In my eyes, it hasn't been. This is, quite frankly, a mockery of democratic principles and an outrageous violation of the people after the watercourse. It seems like someone has an opinion that it's better to talk to the parties involved than to talk to them, and that's regrettable. My fear is that this matter will once again become a heated conflict in Finnmark – which we have also experienced too many times before. If we are to develop Finnmark for the better, new disagreements and conflicts are not the way to go. I fear that the lack of involvement of local rapids could lead to international proceedings based on the ILO Convention, indigenous treaties and the UN – which should be completely unnecessary and easily avoided. I'm addressing proposal No. 3 in the vote on case No. 6, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Center Party and myself. I come back to the pulpit several times.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1404	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1409	Let me first of all thank the case rapporteur, who just now made an engaging statement on the need for local people to be seen. But let me start by saying that the Workers' Party fully supports the setting as it now exists. We would like to stress that the rapporteur, not least with his knowledge of this area, has done a very good job. It's just a shame that when we get to the main hall and we're going to vote over this, the majority is going to be different. Some of the facts in this case: The Labour Party participated in the promotion of Document 8:22 for 2016-2017 on renegotiation or termination of the Salmon Agreement, there was initially an overall cross-political pressure behind the proposal for a representative. Then we waited to discuss the proposal for a representative until we got the agreement on the table. When the agreement came to the table, it was clear that there were massive reactions to the agreement. The starting point and the expression of this is that the general public is completely distrusted in the administration of important natural resources in a local area. It's not the first time the government misunderstands exactly that, we see it now with the fish management in the Tanava stretch, we see it about the wolf, and we could figure out more of these things. But it is quite essential that we have a management of important natural areas and important natural principles that are also in consultation with and in line with what the population believes is right and fair on the basis of an administrative principle. Now there is no doubt that what is the local interest, the local democracy in this matter, is left behind after the agreement has been negotiated, because no one agrees with the agreement that has been negotiated. On the contrary, there is massive resistance to it, and one has to wonder why it has become so wrong that it has actually become. What has been raised above any doubt, I think, is that the majority's position is very clear that here are the local democratic principles set aside. At some point, co-existence and dialogue have ceased, and one has entered into an agreement where the local administration has not been fully implemented in consultation with the local authorities – as is to be done – not least the Tanavas line’ fisheries management and the Sameting. It is that the majority of the committee now very clearly asks for a resumption of negotiations. It is a very important principle for the majority of the committees, and it is a pity if the committee's decision is not adopted here today, because the agreement sets aside not only a desire for local government but a principle and a rule of law on local administration. It is very clear that the Tana Act facilitates a local administration in this watercourse. I want to refer to the minority's comments. There the Right and Advance Party – or at least parts of the Advance Party – writes Christian People's Party and Left : ‘These members refer to the fact that a new agreement is based on thorough balances between Norwegian and Finnish interests.’ That's when I ask myself the question: What thorough evaluations? Has there been any balances made against the Tana Act and the purpose of the Act, which is: ‘To ensure the specific rights of the local population to fish in the Tana River Strip on the basis of law, age and local practice’? Are those interests balanced in that agreement? - Not at all. So until the proposal they're promoting: ‘The Government asks in the follow-up to the new agreement on the management of fishing in the Tanavas Strait to involve local rightholders and Sami as indigenous persons as far as possible.’ Where is the Tana Law in this context? Where exactly is the rapporteur referred to in the third paragraph of Section 6, where it is clear: ‘The preparation of regulations and negotiations with Finland on fishing in Salmon-bearing parts of the Tana River Strip shall be carried out in consultation with the Tana River Strip Fisheries Management and the Sameting.’ Is this followed up? The majority of the Committee considers that the local administration has not been followed up, that there is a basis for resumption of negotiations and the reintroduction of the principles laid down in the Tana Act, and that it follows the starting point, where local interests and local democracy are to be followed in the fisheries management related to the Tanavas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1447	I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a good and thorough examination of this matter, although perhaps some positions ended a little surprising. A lot of the facts in the matter are little disagreements about. The current agreement dates from 1990, but Finland and Norway have managed this fantastic salmon strain together since 1873, through bilateral agreements. For a few years, Tana has been in charge of over 20 pst. of all river catch in Europe and 50 pst. of the catch in Norway. The watercourse is among the most recent large salmon watercourses, which are still relatively unaffected by human activity other than fishing. Therefore, the Tanavas line is important both internationally, for Norway and not least for the community. Due to extensive fish pressure and fishing tourism, not least on the Finnish side, the salmon strains in the Tanavas Strait have been heavily affected and the need for a new agreement has emerged. The work on this agreement was initiated by the previous government, and Norway and the previous government were the initiator of the agreement. An overall committee therefore agrees with the following: the current agreement has led to an excessive fishing pressure in the Tanava stretch. It is important to have a new agreement because many salmon strains are severely threatened or may have been lost. There is an understanding that a border agreement with Finland is not an easy matter to put in place and that there have been demanding negotiations, which have taken place for more than five years. Even with the reduction in the fish pressure to which the agreement refers, about one third, it may take 15 years for the weakest salmon stocks to be restored to a safe level. So what is in the proposal for a new agreement? 33,000 fish-day cards sold in Finland and 3000 sold in Norway are changed to 11,000 in each country. In other words, Finland goes from 33 000 fishing days to 11 000, a reduction down to one third of the current level, while Norway may increase from 3000 to 11 000. From today's situation, there are approx. 50 pst. Norway will have two thirds and Finland one third under a new agreement. This is done through a substantial reduction in the number of fishing licences for tourist fishing and a division of the borderline into fishing zones, so that fishermen are better distributed over the entire watercourse. And it is set out in the agreement for annual evaluations of the impact of the fisheries rules. It is therefore with some wonder I record that there is a majority in the committee to renegotiate this agreement. It is argued, as we have heard, that the agreement is not good enough for Norway and local fishing interests, in the first place, but also that the agreement is not good enough. There have been many and long negotiations that have led to the matter we are dealing with today. This agreement has been concluded between two countries. Those who vote against this agreement today should perhaps ask themselves a few simple questions: Will a renegotiated agreement lead to Finland giving more of the salmon to Norway, and thus less to themselves? Will groups of interests on the Finnish side, who feel that they have given too much recognition in the present draft agreement, be willing to receive further concessions? Will a termination of today's agreement, which then means that each country takes its own responsibility for its own fish, lead to less fish pressure than today? Although there will always be disagreement between different interests on either side of the border, I do believe that the future of salmon is best safeguarded by the fact that the Stortinget, in the same way as the Finnish Parliament recently did, approves the agreement. As regards the input we have received into the process, both in writing and through the consultation, the Ministry has made a thorough presentation of its views on the matter through several letters, and the Committee has also had access to the negotiation protocols. Here's two different views of whether it's been good enough. With regard to the role of the Tanavas Strait Fish Management, TF, in future management, I agree that local administration is often the best. The Right, Left, Christian People's Party and a member of the Progressive Party therefore have a proposal asking that local rightholders be involved as much as possible. The same also suggests that the Stortinget consent to the conclusion of the agreement between Norway and Finland on fishing in the Tanavas Strait. I'm dealing with the suggestions that the Right is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1472	The representative Eirik Milde has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1477	I'm going to be the first to admit that this case has not been easy, and it has not been easy to land a position. There has been a lot of doubt before we have landed to support the agreement. The agreement has met with a lot of resistance locally – yes, I agree with the case rapporteur and will say massive resistance. We can't ignore this. At the same time, we have a unique salmon eel where one today experiences too much taxation of salmon stocks in the watercourse. In the longer term, we could risk destroying this amazing river if we don't get control of the overfishing and give the salmon strains time to rebuild. There must be compromises in negotiations between two countries. We have different laws and traditions, and that means that one page cannot get full impact on everything they want. In this case, Finnish cabin owners have been the big battle theme. Although Finland has accepted a significant reduction in the number of fishing licences, this remains a difficult issue on the Norwegian side. There have been difficult negotiations between two countries with very different starting points, and an objective assessment, in view of this, must therefore be that the agreement is not entirely unreasonable, although there is considerable dissatisfaction on both sides. It is therefore difficult to see today that new negotiations would produce a better result. However, it appears likely that new negotiations could give years of poor administration. This is difficult when we have the agreement up to voting today. As I said, this has been a difficult matter for many, and it has probably never since been a negotiated agreement that has been closer to being rejected by the Stortinget. The rights of indigenous people have been a contributing factor in this. For us in the Christian People's Party, this has been a matter that has weighed heavily, and has made us have had to go many rounds in this matter. However, when we fall to support the agreement, it is because additional overfishing and accompanying weaker salmon strains do not benefit anyone. It will give longer recovery time and larger cuts later. So we have to do what we can to get the tax under control. That is why we are going to support the agreement. Then we're going to hope that this is the beginning of better management of Tanaelva, which will provide rich fishing for all parties in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1490	I can in a great deal join the comments that came from the case rapporteur. I believe that all parties in the Stortinge agree on some of the facts in this case, and that there is a need to bring down the fish pressure in Tanaelva. But I have to say that it is very well done to have completed a process as completely without legitimacy locally as it has done in this matter – a government that says in different contexts they will focus on local concerns, which will delegate more down to local decisions, which say, quite correctly, in my opinion, in protection processes that here must be based on local consensus before any one does anything. So they have done it wrong in this case that all local authorities are opposed. What are they thinking about? If you look at the statements that the municipality of Tana has made, it's not a trifle of objections they have. They feel that democratic rules of play have not been respected in this matter. They're afraid of legal aftermath. They also indicate that the State of Finnmark has expressed itself critically in part of the way it has been implemented. They feel that the representatives of the Tanavasstrak fishing management have been set up entirely on the sidelines, in the interests of purely national interests — and in the interests of environmental management in general as well. And they are in no doubt – they believe that the Storting should advise against approving the new agreement and that it must be renegotiated. I also want to mention the Left's representative in the county, who is also quite clear on this issue when she says that it is disappointing that one has not been willing to listen to local interests, and that she has difficulty understanding that it should be so urgent that one cannot work to a broad majority, which also includes the local views and considerations of the local population. It is not the case that the local actors are not willing to participate in an agreement. Many of them say that they are fully willing to participate in solutions to reduce the fish pressure and take care of the salmon. But what they say is also quite elementary: they just want to be involved in a solution with solid local anchoring and legitimacy of the local population and rightholders. It should have been a minimum of government as well. Therefore, the Central Party will not enter into this agreement today, as it exists. We believe that negotiations should be resumed, and that the interests of the local population – and in particular local rights under the Tana Act – should be respected. I have to say that if this is carried out, I think it will have legal repercussions, and a sustained mistrust and conflict between the local environment, the local population and the government. I do not understand that any government wants to expose itself to such a development in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1505	The Tana watercourse is a unique watercourse and the most important watercourse for Atlantic salmon in the world. It was mentioned here earlier that here take 20 pst. of salmon in Europe and 50 pst. of salmon in Norway and there are 30 different populations, many of them to some extent very weak. There is no doubt that there is too much pressure on fish and there is a need for an agreement with Finland to reduce this pressure. The increase in fishing that has been over many years has been primarily in recreational fishing for travellers, particularly on the Finnish side, where the sale of the daily fishing permits is now up to 33,000 per year. On the Norwegian side, it's only known to be 3,000. In the agreement it is estimated that with the changes that are there, the fishing pressure will be reduced by approx. 30 pst. It has been important — and it is important — to limit recreational fishing in the Tanavas Strait. Now it goes down from 36 000 to 22 000 day fishing licences, divided by Finnish and Norwegian. There are also limitations in traditional fishing with nets and fences. That's why it's also estimated that the reduction is down to 30 pst. For yarns even down to 40 pst. There's no doubt that this is a big restriction in traditional fishing in a river that has a very big significance locally and also for the Sami, for the Sami as indigenous. But the purpose here is to get the fish back up again by being able to preserve all the 30 different stocks, and that over a 15-year period we get the opportunity to rebuild the stocks again and also the opportunity to expand the fish. After all, there are healthy populations that form the basis for future fishing. So I don't think anyone wants it to be as part of the agreement that Finnish cabin owners get their own fishing rights. Is this part of the 11,000 on the Finnish side, up to 3700 days? Half of these can also be on fishing from the boat, with some extended rights. They can still — they could also before — rest across the border, but then without having to give economic compensation to Norway, with slightly increased fishing time during the day and slightly increased with a previous start. The question becomes whether these changes, which nobody wants, are serious enough to go against the whole agreement. On the left, we believe that the agreement and its purpose are more important than going against it. The same is true of the purely formal assessment. There is no doubt that the fish management of the Tanavas Trail and the Sameting have been involved in the negotiations. Seven negotiating meetings have been held, more than 40 meetings have been held, where the dispute has been what has happened in the last six to seven months, in particular about a meeting that has been held in Svanhovd. And we have asked for Section 6 of the Tana Act to be followed, if the consultation system has been followed, and the Council of State has responded confirmatively to it both on March 3rd and March 17th. The question will be whether what can be justified criticism, once again, is serious enough to go against the whole agreement, because going against the whole agreement also has a consequence. Then there is too much pressure on the fish, and that is exactly what you want to limit, to the same extent, without restrictions, as it is today. And there is nothing to suggest that it would be easier in the future to move forward with new negotiations, and that the interest groups that are there should waive their demands in future negotiations. What's important is that we can now get an agreement. Then it has to be followed up that one has to strengthen the local administration that is absolutely vital to rebuild the trust that has been lost today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1522	I have never been in a river and fished salmon. I have never known the combination of calm and tingling tension when you experience it being one with nature and at the same time overcome by the childish dizziness when you know that salmon bites. My tippole parents in their time ran a hotel at Vosso, a popular river for salmon orders over 100 years ago. My grandfather got his education funded by the tourism of the river, and my grandfather could return and fish. With the threat from the farming industry, the population sank towards the 1980s, but fortunately it is on its way up again, and I hope one day I will have the opportunity to know the natural experience of fishing salmon. Why am I saying this? Well, because long-term salmon management is about both the economy and the environment, but also about culture, history and identity. It also applies to the management of the Tana salmon. The Committee agrees that, in the interests of salmon, it is necessary to introduce a more stringent regime for salmon in Tanaelven than is currently the case between Finland and Norway. I just want to say that if an agreement is not to be adopted, it is necessary, primarily in common with Finland, or alternatively only in Norway, to reduce the number of fishing licences sold. Because although many of the 30 salmon strains found in the river don't seem to be overtaxed, there are many that are. It is therefore necessary to regulate the fishing down. The Committee also agrees that it was right for the red-green government to initiate a renegotiation of the salmon agreement with Finland, but with the end of the agreement. In SV we disagree with the government of the agreement that has been reached. We believe that local rightholders on the Norwegian side must take a disproportionate cut in their fishing rights. We believe it is wrong that Finnish cabin owners enter the agreement as rightholders. They would like to do so under Finnish law, but not under the Treaty. We think it is wrong that traditional knowledge is given too little space in management, and we think it is wrong that the Tanavas line's fish management, the local co-determination arena, has too little role in the management of salmon. However, it is the procedural criticism of the agreement and the process that has been and the criticism of the government that appears to be the most serious. Because when the Tanavasstrak’s fish management accuses the government’s dealers of having left them out of the November 2015 negotiations, it is serious. When voting rights in the Tanavas County Fish Administration accuse the government of actively amending the legislation in order to avoid another representation in the Tanavas County Fish Management along the way in the negotiation process, a representation that appears to have a different view from that of the Ministry, it is also serious. And when the compounds both in Norway and in Finland do not only go against the negotiated agreement, but believe that the lack of involvement of Sami interests in the negotiation process is contrary to the indigenous rights we have accepted under international conventions, this matter seems far more serious than I am willing to put the stamp of approval on by my and SVs today. In the case of the decision of the Treaties, when one does not sit at the negotiating table or in the government, the option is reduced to say yes or no. Today SV says no, and we trace and we expect that the government's handling of the negotiation process will be dealt with by the Stortingen Control Committee in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1542	Salmon stocks in the Tanava stretch must be preserved. It's very important for the existence of the Atlantic salmon species, it's very important for Sami culture, it's very important for local culture and interests, and it's very important for the tourism industry. For this reason, the management of salmonellva under a better regime than at present, both because the tax is too high and because there is the additional burden that threatens all Norwegian natural management, namely the climate change that occurs in the sea and on land. The Greens recognise that this is a complicated matter and a huge dilemma. There is a great deal of work that we have no problem giving the government credit for, in order to get an agreement in place in a very complex case with major differences of interest. We note that the government believes that both Sami and local interests have to some extent been represented, but we are in a situation where the agreement negotiated does not have the legitimacy it must have. Such an agreement on such an important resource must have local legitimacy — it must have legitimacy in the local population, and it must have legitimacy in the Sami environment and in the Sami culture. It doesn't, and then the answer is, we have to do this again. Then we have one more problem, and that is that even with the significant improvement in the administrative regime, which provides a clear reduction in taxation, all the information is quite clear that the tax will still be too high in relation to the needs of the population. So, for the Green Party, it is also important to bring taxation down further. The best way to do it is to be able to find a less unfair distribution of Finnish cabin owners than what you have today. We do not doubt that this will be a difficult job to do, but it is necessary to negotiate that agreement in a way that gives the necessary legitimacy in the Norwegian environments. The Green Party is therefore not in favour of supporting the agreement in its current form.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1551	The tanava stretch is unique. It is probably the world's most important watercourses for Atlantic salmon. With about 30 separate salmon populations, the watercourse, with the main river and all its salmon-bearing tributaries, can almost be seen as a separate salmon universe. Salmon and salmon fishing in the watercourse are of great importance to the community as indigenous peoples and to the local population in general. Norway and Finland therefore share a high share of responsibility for managing the salmon population in Tana in a sustainable manner. Unfortunately, we are not doing that today. Most of the 30 populations are in a very serious situation because of overfishing, and that's what we now want and have to do. The main purpose of the agreement currently to be decided is to ensure that salmon stocks in the river are rebuilt, while maintaining extensive fishing activities, for the benefit of local communities, rightholders and recreational fishermen. This will be demanding, and we must be patient. Even with the reduction in the fish pressure of approx. One-third, to which the new fisheries rules apply, will take about one third. 15 years before the weakest salmon populations have been rebuilt to the desired levels. But the amount of fish in the river will gradually increase over time, and 15 years of more careful fishing is not long. After this reconstruction period, the Tanavas stretch will produce much more salmon and give us a harvestable surplus in the foreseeable future, if we do well. In order to achieve the necessary reduction in the fishing pressure, all groups of fishermen must limit their fishing activities. This also applies to traditional shrimp fishing, which is of particular importance for the Sami river culture. The reason is that this fish catches a lot of salmon from the weak populations that belong at the top of the watercourse, passing the lower parts of the main river early in the season. With this as a natural condition, a reasonable burden-sharing between the different groups of fishermen in the watercourse has been sought. However, the agreement provides a basis for flexible management. The adjustments in the fish shall be evaluated each year and adjusted if appropriate to the salmon stocks, the practice of fishing or certain groups of fishermen. In order to achieve this, the development of salmon stocks shall be closely monitored through targeted monitoring and improved catch statistics. Substantial tourist fishing has both led to significant fishing pressure and hindered local pole fishing. On the basis of the current agreement, more than 33 000 daily fishing licences were sold in 2015 on the Finnish side and approx. 3 000 cards for tourists on the Norwegian side. This is now being reversed in favour of local fishing by setting a ceiling of 11,000 daily cards on the borderline of each of the countries. This also shows that Finland, which has a very high interest in tourist fishing, has gone a long way in accepting that its own fishing licenses for tourists will be reduced from more than 30 000 to 11 000 daily tickets. Many tourists on the Finnish side have acquired a cabin or other property on the Finnish side of the Tana Valley over the years. Under the Finnish Constitution, there is a fishing right with these properties. The agreement will now regulate the fishing to which these cabin owners are entitled under Finnish law by including their own provisions in the fisheries rules. This group of fishermen must purchase daily fishing permits from the 11000 fishing licences on the Finnish side. Up to one third of the Finnish quota is allocated to this group. This has raised considerable resistance on the Norwegian side too, but an agreement between two countries requires mutual consideration of internal rights in both countries. It has therefore been necessary to reflect the rights of non-residents with property and fishing rights on the Finnish side of the fishing rules for the frontier section. However, it does not appear to be disputed that the allocation of salmon resources between Norway and Finland is now being corrected in Norwegian favour, so that about Two thirds of this is due to Norway and about two thirds to Norway. One third is the case with Finland. The agreement requires broad involvement of local fishing rights holders and other local interests in the management. On the Norwegian side, this implies that the fish management of the Tanavas Trail will also play a central role in future management. They will continue to be responsible for tasks in which they are currently entrusted with authority and will also be given considerable new tasks. However, State authorities must have overall responsibility for cooperation between Norway and Finland. It is the government’s duty to care for Norway’s overall national interests as well as for different national interest groups, all of this within the framework of what can be achieved in bilateral negotiations where we are not alone at the table, but need to find solutions that are acceptable to both Norway and Finland. It was absolutely necessary to deal with the very last phase of negotiations between Norway and Finland at ministerial level. Before that stage, the Tanavas Streak Fish Management and the Sameting have been well involved in the whole negotiation process. If the negotiations were to be reopened, it would very likely not lead to Norway achieving a more favourable result vis-à-vis Finland. The concessions made by the Finnish side over four years of negotiations would then be reopened. We had to go back to the start and risked a rematch. I'm not recommending that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1574	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1579	This matter can only be summed up in one way: it is the bureaucracy's victory over local democracy. The Ministry of Environmental Protection has, with the Right and Advance Party as weapons envoys, overrun Tana Municipality, Karasjok Municipality, Finnmark County Municipality, Sametinget, Finnmark Bench on Stortinget, as well as a number of hearing bodies. The Health Declaration, which is the government's political platform, states that local involvement is important in the management of natural resources. Nevertheless, the government shall now force through an agreement that is opposed to all local parties concerned. What is the reason why the Council of State has not lifted one finger to set up a local agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1586	This has been a lengthy process, and I would like to stress that the cooperation with the TF, Tanavassträket’s fish management, and internally within the Norwegian delegation, was very good throughout the negotiation process, starting with the preparations for the first negotiation meeting in 2012 and until November 2015. The work on new fishing rules was very demanding. Here, TF’s then delegation members were crucial premiscutors and very important as professional advisers to the delegation. It is in the final phase that this has been reversed, at the time when agreement had already been reached between Norway and Finland on the proposal for new fishing rules, where Norway and Finland mainly agreed on the wording of the agreement text. TF then elected new members to represent itself, and they wanted Norway to withdraw from the consensus reached. I believe that this is not the way to conduct international negotiations, especially when, with the content of the agreement, we have achieved very good results for the Norwegian side and have little to gain from a reopening.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1593	It has quite a lot of water in the sea – through Tanaelva – from 1 November 2015 until March 2017. Governments have had a number of opportunities to gain local support and legitimacy. He has chosen not to use it. A key task for responsible politicians is to ensure sustainable management of the Tana salmon. When it's less salmon, you have to fish less. Everyone who fishes has to take their share of that responsibility, and I think that most people can join. But precisely in this situation, when the fish pressure is to be reduced, the government seems to be right to allow new rightholders with increased availability in the river. The County of Finnmark is among those who have pointed this out in their hearing opinion and say: ‘We believe this is clearly unfortunate for the construction of the stock.’ In addition, they point to the danger of increasing the level of conflict. That the Right will not listen to people most, represented by local democracy, is so its case, but what is the reason why the Council of State will not listen to professional concerns and counter-representations in this matter either?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1607	It is highly professionally documented that this agreement will reduce the fish pressure. It'll take time. It will take up to 15 years, but the fish pressure will decrease by one third. It's going to lead to this amazing river getting better sustainability. This will happen, while Norway’s share of the fish resource will increase considerably compared to today. This will happen at the same time as we now have the opportunity to regulate an existing right on the Finnish side. It is not new that non-resident landowners have fishing rights in the river, but the new thing is that the existing Finnish right is now regulated in the agreement. This means that this group of rights is mainly treated as a tourist fisherman and must dissolve fishing licences from the limited Finnish quota. This is a solution that will deliver better results for sustainability and a good share for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1612	All of the organizations on both sides of the border, all of the municipalities on both sides of the border, both countries' unification, TF, County Council, the Left in Finnmark, the Christian People's Party in Finnmark and all locals don't want such an agreement. That is why I have to ask the Council of State Helgesen, who represents the Right in this matter, and the Right very often believes that one should listen to local democracy: can the Council of State say, with the hand of the heart, that local democracy has been heard at all in this matter, when we know that everyone is against it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1617	The agreement will give TF a very important role in the future, depending on its content. They will be given new tasks in the management of Tanavas. With regard to the process, there have been very long-standing and inclusive negotiations — long-term negotiations with another country. Negotiations between two countries are often demanding, and when they have to take care of local considerations in addition, they are not less demanding. But when we have had seven negotiating meetings, where the Tanavas Streak Fish Management and the Sameting have participated, when we have had 40 delegation and contact meetings in which they have participated, and we have reached an agreement with this other country – an international treaty – the situation is that it needs a lot to reverse, especially when there are very poor prospects that we should get a better deal for Norway in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1624	I record that the Council of State refers to the number of meetings and that there have been complicated negotiations. However, while there are difficult negotiations with another country — but also with partner organisations in Norway — one ends up in a situation where, to say the least, everything that can crawl and go after the watercourse feels overrun. That is why I can repeat my question: does the Council of State really believe that local democracy in this matter has been properly addressed?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1629	All questions have been thoroughly discussed throughout the process. The local delegates from Norway and Finland have not only participated on several occasions but have been asked for, and have submitted, joint proposals for new fishing rules. It contributed significantly to a Norwegian-Finnish proposal which was also backed by the TF members at the time – the fisheries rules contained in the draft agreement are far on the way based on the local proposals. So there's been a situation with new members in the TF who have taken other positions. I respect that, but it happened at a time when the agreement was over, and where we were at a stage when the last discussions between the countries took place, among other things. at political level, between me and my Finnish colleague. It is perfectly normal in international negotiations for such consultations to take place in smaller forums. There was a consensus on the basis of local recordings, and we've held on to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1637	The fish management of the Tanavas Strait, TF, is responsible for contributing to the long-term conservation of fishery resources and for participating in cooperation with Finland on the management of the watercourse. When the TF declares that it has been neglected in the negotiations since November 2015, the agreement lacks local anchoring and legitimacy. I wonder if the Council of State agrees that this is problematic, and whether the Council of State can guarantee that one is not just about to face a situation where democratic principles are threatened, but also where one can conflict with the rights of indigenous peoples, the ILO, and the human rights of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1644	I am convinced that we are on a safe footing, both in relation to the Tana Act and in relation to international commitments by which Norway is obliged. The fishing rules and the agreement were discussed extensively with the new members of the TF, both in advance of and during the last negotiating meeting, in May 2016. The views of current TF members were therefore well known prior to the final agreement with Finland last June. It is quite normal that consultations and discussions in international contract negotiations take place, among other things. Ministerial level at the end. That's also the case here. We stressed from the Norwegian side that we had an agreement proposal that was already completed in the autumn of 2015, which was a good proposal for Norway, and was based not least on local recordings and local proposals. As regards the Sameting, they have been a member of the negotiating delegation and have participated in all negotiating meetings and internal meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1655	It is clear that there is a definition question of what ‘reasonable discussion’ means, when the TF has a completely different version and is clear that the fish management of the Tanavas Strait is disregarded in the negotiations. I still wonder how the Council of State looks at the situation that has now been drawn up. There is a serious situation in marine salmon fishing. It's a threatened industry, it's a threatened cultural carrier. Does the Council believe that it is reasonable that the fish pressure is something for which local forces should take responsibility, which is to be reduced by the Sámi cultural carriers, while new rightholders are being released?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1662	It is a national responsibility – Norway actually has an international responsibility for Atlantic wild species. This means that when the population is so critically low and worse than in other salmon rivers in the region, we have a responsibility to deal with it, and we have to do it through international negotiations with Finland. Then all groups have to reduce their fishing. However, the proportion of salmon resources remaining on the Norwegian side is getting higher than today. We get a lot of tourist fishing on the Finnish side. So there are rightholders that already exist today, they're not new rightholders. But there are also rights that are now regulated in the agreement, so that we get a hand on the wheel and a finger in the game in terms of their fishing, while strengthening the monitoring, to ensure that the agreement is respected on both sides. Then it is such that the fishing rules are to be evaluated and can be revised annually.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1671	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1678	It is not difficult to support the main objective of most of the measures now proposed for the Tanavas trek. But what is difficult to understand is the impact of the new agreement on the local population, both administratively and culturally. There is no doubt that the negotiated draft agreement has created considerable local involvement — but with a negative sign. The new agreement disapproves of the local population. People are simply 'enraged', if you want to use a little diplomatic expression – or 'fuck', if you want to use your own dialect. They were therefore very early in their life and demanded that the Finnish Works of Agreements be renegotiated, as many have been involved in their interventions during the debate. On this basis, all the representatives of Finnmark addressed a joint address to the State Council of Vidar Helgesen, with a goal of renegotiation. Together with colleagues from the Senterpartiet and SV, I have also participated in the promotion of a representative proposal with similar content. These enquiries have, as you know, been unsuccessful. Speaking of local anchoring: it is particularly important to record the differences in perceptions of the presence of the local administrative body, the Tanavasstrak’s fish management, hereinafter TF, during the negotiations. The Council of State and the majority in this Chamber claim that local representatives have been sitting around the table all the time, a claim by TF representatives cannot in any way stand behind. It is appropriate to ask questions about how to have such a different opinion about who was sitting around the negotiating table during the negotiations. The question I justify is that I have become aware that two days after the new management in the TF was elected, the negotiating delegation was dissolved by the head of the department's negotiations and the negotiations were declared complete. There is then reason to ask why the negotiating delegation was dissolved already on 2 November 2015, when the text of the agreement was only available as a draft at that time. In December 2015, there was also a joint press release from the Norwegian and Finnish authorities on an agreement on proposals for new provisions on salmon fishing in the Tanavas Strait. Some must have spoken in the period from 2 November to 8 December 2015. It can be demonstrated that representatives from Tanavassträket fish management were not involved in these talks. Why probably just the councils and his people know. If they had been involved, I doubt that the negotiated agreement would have given priority to rich cabin owners from Finland at the expense of the local population along the Tanava stretch. Unfortunately, we note that the Right Party government, with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left, chooses to prioritise new stakeholders on the Finnish side. We have argued that the opposition to the agreement is very great. I won't repeat it again, of course, but it's worth noting that it's formidable.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1699	The President understands that this matter has a great deal of commitment, but the President will nevertheless remind the representatives that one thinks through his use of words in the matter. It's a general recommendation after the debate in the last hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1704	The traditional fish of the sea salmon is heavily threatened. We are talking about an industry, about a culture of food and fishing, about a way of life that has been put under heavy pressure through the severe cuts in sea salmon fishing in the last 40 years. There is also a clear link with the increase in Finnish tourist fishing on the Tanavas border section during the same period, administered jointly by the Norwegian and Finnish authorities. For the same time period as sea salmon fishing has been put under heavy pressure, about one million daily tickets have been sold and tourist fishermen have taken more than 1 million. kg salmon. One aspect of historical developments is that in Finland around 1980, sea salmon fishing was used as a salinisation point in national salmon management in relation to the extensive sea drift fishing that took place at that time. More than 1000 marine salmon fishing grounds in the county were withdrawn. The cuts in fishing time have been dramatic. In parts of Varangerfjord, the fishing time for hook nets has been reduced by 92 pst, and the decline in the number of salmon farms has been strong. The sum of policies that have been pursued in the last decades — for several decades — has led to a serious situation for marine salmon fishing, as an industry and as a Sami cultural carrier. Although everyone agrees that we should have a proper management of the salmon, of our fish, there are some who have had to take greater responsibility than others, and there is a culture that is now getting the hook on the door. The Norwegian authorities have decided that sea salmon fishing in the region of Tanafjord and on the coast of Finnmark should be reduced once again in the context of the agreement with Finland on fishing in the Tanavas stretch. The agreement also requires that Finland be given influence over future regulations on marine salmon fishing. Of course, the sea salmon fishermen do not support the agreement, which means new cuts already from the season, and these cuts are strong in the Tanava stretch. Finland shall have an influence on sea salmon fishing, but no negotiations shall be held between sea salmon fishermen. TF has been excluded from parts of the negotiations. It's very rough. Here, local government is parked and set aside. And I repeat the message from my party colleague: this is a matter that belongs in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. However, it cannot be stressed enough that the fact that the parties concerned are in breach, that municipalities have been deprived of the fact that the Sameting process has been overruled and that Finnmark County Council is unvisited is a serious democratic overtramp.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1715	There have been big words from this pulpit today, and as a Finnmark representative, I don't think it's right to be accused of being disrespectful of my own people, even if you have a different opinion. I have also been involved in this matter, and I followed the hearing when it was. The locally selected TF members have followed this process from the start, ergo the locally selected body has been involved all the way. The fact that local democracy at the end of the negotiations chose to put in place a new member of the TF could not possibly lead to the original negotiations and agreements being scrapped. They were just done with local involvement. And as has been said, it's important to reduce the fish pressure. It has also been said that it is Finland that is actually taking the greatest reduction. I am from Alta Municipality, where we have local administration of Altaelva – with great success. I must point out that fishing salmon in Altaelva with nets or seals is totally unimaginable to us, so that this type of fish must also be reduced in Tanaelva, I consider it important and correct. I am also the Ombudsman for Finnmark, and I support the agreement. In a few years' time, I want to be proud to say that I agreed to secure the future of the Tana salmon.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1724	In the last few months, there has been a lot of attention on the government’s handling of the wolf case, where state council Helgesen has set aside collapse decisions, regional predatory wildlife topics and local interests and views — as in Hedmark also saw in Finnmark. Although the wolf is today replaced with salmon, it is the same story that repeats itself. It is disappointing – deeply disappointing – that the Right Party and the Advance Party in government set aside laws, rights, local democracy and professional counter-representations. But the government is obviously completely safe in its assurance that you know best within the safe walls of the department in Oslo. The result is that those who are going to live by this agreement in their everyday lives are fully on the sidelines. It is also disappointing that the majority of the population choose side for a government council that has obviously put a lot of emphasis on the matter, rather than focusing on the concerns of the Tana salmon and the local population. I'm referring to Left's candidate for big business in Finnmark, Trine Noodt, who, on the front page of the Finnmark newspaper today, says: ‘It is disappointing that government councils and offices rather than local democracy are listened to. In Finnmark, we have every reason to feel overwhelmed." I fully agree with the candidate for the Left. It is incomprehensible that the bulk of the population places the interests of cabin people from Helsinki over the interests of the local population and the tana salmon. Right here in the hall has discussed realism in getting a better deal than the one that's negotiated. I am tempted to ask if it is possible to reach an agreement that is much worse than what has been achieved here. In any case, it is alarming that a government that opted for a more offensive European policy has such a defensive approach to an agreement with our nearest neighbouring country, where Norway is initially holding all the good cards on hand. Nor do you believe that, in order to reduce the pressure on fish, new rightholders with increased fishing time and increased availability should be released. Take the parallel to the coastal fishermen. Think if we should reduce quotas and say to Norwegian fishermen: now you have to fish less, and at the same time we have to let go of new Russian fishermen and EU fishermen. Then there would have been as much hello on the coast as it is now in Tana and Finnmark. State Council Helgesen claims that there is nothing new with the new Finnish rightholders. It's proven to be wrong. They have better availability and much more fishing time than the tourist fishermen have traditionally had, so what the council says is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1744	In my previous post, there was a lot of concern about the process and – as I see it – a denial of local democracy, but it is clear that another side of this matter is that the Council of State and the Ministry of Climate and Environment have originally set up a race where the Tanavas stretch of fish management would in the future act more like a fish card seller than an administrator. This is in the light of the government's proposal that the Ministry of Climate and Environment should be at the top of the administrative hierarchy, in front of the Environment Directorate and with the Tanavasstrak's fish management at the bottom. I am therefore very pleased that a unanimous committee follows the rapporteur's remarks and changes the government's position that the TF is directly subject to the Ministry of Climate and Environment – not the Environment Directorate – in the management of the watercourse. That's a good thing. In the legislative and regulatory changes that are now being consulted, the proposal envisages that the regulations should be given in compliance with the Salmon and Inland Fisheries Act, where the Directorate-General for the Environment controls everything from a to a. It is therefore very gratifying that a joint committee emphasises that the TF is preferred as a management body for the watercourse, and that the regulations are introduced under the Tana Act as a special law – this in line with what a unanimous increase ended up in the treatment of the Tana Act as a special law in 2013–2014. But it is amazing to experience that the Ministry of Climate and Environment, through political leadership, is once again reversing the management of the Tanavas Strait and wants to reduce the role of TF in favour of the Environment Directorate. It's also very visible that it's not just after the Tanava stretch that there are special interests. Special interests exist equally well in both directorates and departments as they exist after the Tanavas trek, and it is very visible in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1754	Let me start by saying that the Progress Party will support the agreement. We have dealt with this democratically in our party group, where the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen was allowed to promote his view. We emphasized that he comes from Finnmark, and that this is a matter that engages Finnmark to a great extent. We have respect and understanding for that. But at the same time, this is certainly a national matter – and not least an international matter. For a few years, the salmon catch in the Tanava stretch is over 50 pst. of the total salmon catch in Norway. Then there's a national case, and then we have to take national into account. We understand that this can get us involved in Finnmark and in the Tana municipalities involved, but we have to put a little bit aside if it's the national and international interests that we're going to take care of. I think the representative Laila Davidsen made a good contribution to the different roles of the TF in this matter. I'm not going to spend any more time on it. In 1997, I was elected to the Stortinget, and I spent eight years in the Energy and Environment Committee. We had, politically, salmon on the menu every day. Many times I was shoulder to shoulder with SV and the then representative Hallgeir Langeland. We fought for the fallacy, and I must say I am shocked that SV has taken the position that SV has done in this matter. It seems as if there's more interest in taking the government than protecting the wild axis of the Tanava Strip. The same applies to the Green Party. The center part I can't afford to spend time on, because the center part is almost always, 24/7, at all times. The position of these parts in this case is probably what shocks me the most. The working party I can't afford to spend time on. But if in this case you cannot see the overall perspective and the responsibility we have as a nation to take care of the wilderness axis in Norway, I have to say that I am concerned. But once again, I understand that this is a local commitment. This is what happens when the national parliament, as we are now, takes decisions that go beyond the community, at both good and bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1765	The new agreement on the management of the Tanavas line is good for Norway, because it provides for a completely necessary reduction in the fishing pressure, so that the Tanavas line survives like salmon selvedge, to the delight of future generations of fishermen. The agreement restores the balance between Norwegian and Finnish fisheries, so that Norway’s share of the fishing off-take is more consistent with the actual geographical distribution of the watercourse and substantially limits tourist fishing and establishes sustainable and flexible management based on modern and knowledgeable principles. The criticism of the proposal and the negotiations is disproportionate to the way in which the negotiations have been conducted, what is possible in a bilateral agreement, and what has actually been achieved in the new agreement. It has been very well explained by the Council of State. Today’s debate gives the impression that a no to the new bilateral agreement with Finland means that fishing in Tanaelva on the Norwegian side can continue as before. It is not an alternative, and it would be very irresponsible in today's situation. The salmon stock in Tanaelva is under great pressure. Today’s fishing is not sustainable and affects the local population’s fishing activities. This was also the background for Norway to take the initiative under the red-green government to negotiate a new agreement. It is a fact that it has been very difficult to reach agreement with Finland. I hear parties that are opposed to the negotiated agreement between Norway and Finland, who are proceeding here in the process, but I do not hear what kind of action you would like to take to ensure the great value creation that the Tanavas Treaty represents – and hopefully it will also represent in the future. The majority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence emphasises that a shared fishing resource such as the Salmon in Tanaelva should be managed on the basis of a bilateral agreement with our neighbouring country Finland, and that administration on the Norwegian side should continue within the framework of the new agreement of the Tanavasstrak fishing management as a local manager and with the Ministry of Climate and Environment in a central role in assisting the ongoing management. When new or further negotiations are proposed with Finland, all the difficult issues will again be open to renegotiation by interest groups on the Finnish side and feel that they have given too much recognition in the draft agreement that exists. It would be a highly risky strategy for Norway if one were to go to new negotiations, which could hardly produce a better result for us, and it would be irresponsible to ensure the sustainable management of the salmon population in Tana.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1780	There is a basis for saying that there is a problem that there is so much local resistance. It's clear that this is something we have to take seriously. At the same time, I think that those who accept the agreement take too easy on what the alternative is. It is clear that if we do not have a restriction on the Finnish side – because the main problem is the growth of recreational fishing over many years, and if we do not have an agreement, there is still no restriction on the Finnish side, and we believe that we need to reduce fishing in order to preserve the 30 stocks – we need to take a greater reduction on the Norwegian side. On the Norwegian side, there are 3 000 recreational fishermen with a 24-hour card. So you have to take a greater reduction in what is traditional fishing, what is going on on the rights holders locally, in order to achieve the purpose of the agreement, a reduction of 30 pst. to re-establish populations over the next 15 years. That's the reality you're facing. It's not like you're just resuming new negotiations, you can expect to get the immediate result, with such huge reductions on the Finnish side. First of all, it must even be voluntary. Nor, with such difficult negotiations, can one add that it can be just as easy to achieve this in the future – even if it is problematic with Finnish cabin owners, who now receive 1830 daily tickets and can rest in a boat above the center line. They could do that earlier, but without having to pay. The loss of the income there must be compensated for by the fish management of the Tanavasstrek. Finland does not have any influence on sea salmon fishing. They have a right of consultation, but it's a matter of consultation. It is not that this is therefore a debate and something that they must have influence over. Only Norwegian authorities – alone – decide. This situation is difficult, with great resistance. The crucial thing in the future is that we use the flexibility of the agreement. So you can evaluate your fishing rights every year. There are larger evaluations over time, using the possibilities of strengthening traditional fishing and continuing to work to reduce recreational fishing. That's the job that needs to be done in the future, while building a stronger fish population, which is the very basis, which is the goal, and what we want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1793	SV's position on this matter should not surprise anyone. We agree that the fishing pressure must be reduced. We are very concerned that the salmon is managed in a wise and sustainable way, but it is possible to disagree in the way it happens. It is possible to disagree with the picture being drawn, and it is possible to disagree with the distribution that is actually about to take place. The representative of the Progress Party, Korsberg, emphasises that there are international interests and national interests that must be founded. But is this necessarily a contrast to local interests? Is it necessarily this way that rationale and management are increasing as they go along with the distance from what is to be managed? Is it necessarily that decisions are taken the most farthest from those in question, or does the closest of those who live have anything to report? I wonder if the representative Korsberg or the state councillor Helgesen has actually been to Tana. Have you really been in Tana and listened to the people who live there, taking the local knowledge seriously? If not, I would encourage them to take their journey as soon as possible, see people in their eyes and say: We know best about their past, about their future, we know best how to define and dictate their way of life – from a department – see them in their eyes and say that tradition has to give up, food culture has to give up, fishing culture has to give up, the Sami coastal culture has to give up, because we know best. There has been strong criticism of the process in this case. There is strong criticism precisely because it's quite clear what it's focused on. The emphasis is on international interests, national interests, as if there are empty slogans that are not coupled with the love, the warmth, the power of the administration that is in the Tana River. Because someone knows what it means, how irreplaceable values it's about, in the fish, but also in the culture, it's the people who live there. And that's the people you've chosen not to listen to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1810	I also noticed that the Progress Party and the representative of Korsberg created a contrast between Norway's national interests and the local interests in this matter, and that was quite interesting. I would like to deepen this contradiction, because no one is more interested in taking care of the Tanal axis than the local population is. National interests and the role of the Norwegian government in this matter were to be believed to be both the care of the salmon strain in the Tanavas stretch and the interests of the local population and the implementation of the Tana Law. Unfortunately, the government has failed. I have also noticed that the Right is trying to construct a reality where it is that if you are against this agreement that the government has negotiated, you are also opposed to sustainable management and reduced fishing. It's also completely wrong. I would like to refer here to the hearing opinion of the County of Finnmark, at the Environmental Protection Department, where the County states: ‘In our view, a whole new group with extended rights and previously defined as a traveller will be able to increase the fish pressure in the watercourse. This new group will have extended fishing time. They may start fishing one week before other travellers, thereby exerting fish pressure at the time when large and important glanders are to reach the spawning areas at the top of the watercourse. We think this is clearly unfortunate for the structure of the population. They also have the right to fish 24 hours per. 24 hours, vis-à-vis passengers 17 hours.’» In the back of the statement, the County of Finnmark also says: ‘For the Norwegian interests, it is also the right to fish from the Norwegian zone that this new group of fish owners in Finland has been given to worry County of Finnmark. Here, salmon extraction as a resource as well as an increased level of conflict in relation to the restrictions of the same group on the Norwegian side are concerned.’ Finally, from my point of view: in the case of sea salmon fishing, it is that, after the Government has set the Tana Act aside, after overcoming local democracy and putting consultations with the Sameting aside in this matter, the Finnish authorities and Helsinki will have the right to consult and influence the management of sea salmon fishing where Norway has sovereignty. It just says everything about how the government has handled this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1827	There is reason to be a little frustrated by what some people are trying to bring into the debate, as if there were some kind of disagreement that we have to bring down the fish pressure on the salmon population in the Tanava stretch. There's no doubt about it, it says a unanimous committee: ‘The Committee points out that it is very important to put in place a new agreement as there is no doubt that the fish pressure demonstrated is too high. As a result, many salmon strains are severely threatened or may have been lost.» So it's a unanimous committee that says. When the Progress Party and, in part, the Right also try to throw such a stupid veil into the debate, that the majority of the Committee – and perhaps the minority – have not actually taken it in, it will be with respect to reporting for stupidity. The main dilemma in this case is that local democracy and the local administration determined by the Stortinget, which the Stortinget believes should be the starting point for negotiating this kind of agreement, have been neglected. Should the Tana Law have been followed or should it not have been followed in the negotiations for this agreement? That's a really important question. The Tana Law says unequivocally: ‘The purpose of the law is to ensure the specific rights of the local population to fish in the Tana River Strip on the basis of law, age and local practice.’ Is it followed or is it broken? In my opinion, it is broken. Is the third paragraph of Section 6 of the Tana Act followed up? It says, ‘The preparation of regulations and negotiations with Finland on fishing in Salmon-bearing parts of the Tana River Strip shall be carried out in consultation with the Tana River Strip Fisheries Management and the Sameting.’ Has it happened? It's highly doubtful. That is where the heart of the conflict lies in this matter. The Right Party and the Progressive Party protect the government and legitimize it, it is all right, they have to stand for it. The left chooses to do so, even with statements that Ola Elvestuen makes now, where he says that it is problematic that the rights and local democracy are set aside. He goes on to say that it is problematic with the rights granted to Finnish tenants. It is not problematic that the agreement may also have been negotiated on the wrong basis. That's what's the main problem now, and I think that's what should also form the basis for how you think about voting in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1851	Since I have been mentioned in some articles here, I have drawn myself completely at the end of the debate. Kirsti Bergstø wondered who was most in Tana by me and her. I honestly don't know. I've never met her when I've been there, but I think I can make up my mind that I've been to Tana before her. I think that's simply because I'm a little older than her, to say it very carefully. Kirsti Bergstø also says that local government should be taken into account. Yeah, that's an interesting point of view from SV. Is it also the case in predatory policy, or is it only in this case that local management should be taken into account? We take account of local government, but that does not mean that we automatically follow the local government and what they wish for, because as I said in my post: We have an overall responsibility to take care of the wilderness, and that is actually what it is about in this case, although the Workers' Party is trying to run away from those positions by calling my post 'the veil of stupidity' and that it gets too stupid. If you don't have any argument, you'd have to make that kind of statement, but I actually expected a more factual statement from the representative of Terje Aasland in this case. But if you don't have any factual arguments, you might have to use this kind of expression. I think it's unfortunate. I showed in my post both the great importance of the Tanava stretch for Norwegian salmon management, and that it has international significance. I believe that in this Chamber, as a national parliament, we have an obligation to take account of that. We do it in all other cases, but in this case we are not going to do it. We're going to have a rematch, we're going to have new negotiations with Finland, and it's going to be many more years before we get a management of this most important watercourse in Norway and Europe. That is what the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Greens' Environment Party want. I think it's irresponsible to argue that way. I have fought many battles with special SV in the fight against gyro by liming watercourses to get up the wild breeds, but this time they want to go in a completely different direction. There is no doubt – after my 20 years at Stortinget – that Vidar Helgesen is the state council that has done the most for Norwegian villas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1866	I know a need to make a few points towards the end of the debate. One is the view of local democracy and the balancing of local interests and national interests and the fact that we cannot run from it, that this is an international agreement negotiation. The main body of local democracy in this context, TF, thus had a major – not to say decisive – influence on the agreement and the fishing rules as they were almost finished in the run-up to the end of 2015. When new management in the TF meant a new view of the agreement, we were in the choice to reopen the whole process or to stick to what was an agreement, rather than to say in its entirety, which gives Norway a very good deal. We stood by the internationally negotiated agreement. We have followed the Tana Law, we have followed the consultation procedures with the Sameting. We sent the draft agreement to the hearing – a very short consultation due to deadlines on the Finnish side – but there is no need to send international agreements to the hearing. We did it because we thought it was important to hear the local interests. And we have. At the same time, it is quite correct, as the representative Pedersen says, that we have agreed to obtain an opinion from Finland before we decide on sea salmon fishing in Finnmark. It's just that there's nothing new. Helga Pedersen has been in government and administered the same system. That obligation already arises from Article 66 of the Convention on the Law of the Sea, of which Norway has been bound since 1996. We have had a consultation agreement for marine salmon fishing with Finland via the EU through an agreement in the North Atlantic salmon protection organisation for the conservation of Atlantic salmon since 2009. However, all decisions and decisions on marine salmon fishing will continue to be taken unilaterally by the Norwegian authorities, and the agreement will not alter the legal situation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1873	The representative, Kirsti Bergstø, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1878	Age doesn't always make sense. There are opportunities to reduce fishing today. The problem is that locals have had to reduce while tourist fishing has increased. The problem in this case, all of which have come together, is that local interests are parked, while cabin people from Helsinki are applauded. It is profoundly problematic, both from a democratic perspective and from a management perspective, and considering how to look at knowledge, it is profoundly problematic to park the local perspective and operate with over-control from Oslo, with a argument that you know so much better than them. But the most joyous thing in the debate is the idea of the next time Korsberg takes a trip into the cooperative team in Tana.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1888	I'm not going to compete for the number of visits, neither in Tana, on the cooperative team or anywhere else. I will try to concentrate on what this matter is actually about. The representative of Korsberg has gone through the various elements carefully. The Group of the Progressive Alliance has had a thorough examination of this matter. We've had different hearings. We've also had the state councils in consultation with the big group, just to be sure of the decisions we're making. The case rapporteur, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, has also done a very thorough job, because we fell on different sides when it comes to the decision today on the agreement itself. What's strange about the debate is that it's about who's heard, and not heard – especially on the SV side – but very little about what we're going to do to preserve the wild stocks. In fact, for the Advancement Party, it is the most important thing in this matter. How can we ensure the preservation of wild - axe trunks? Villax trunks are a national resource, they are not a local resource. It has to do with the natural diversity. As to whether Finland is being heard in the context of sea salmon fishing: of course it is. It is found by – as the Council of State was in it – the Maritime Law Commission. But of course there is also a common stock that is being fished on. Then it says itself that you listen to each other, and you have respect for each other. What's strange about this case is: What will be the result if we don't make the agreement? Then we can have new years – a number of years in the future – without reaching a common agreement on how to manage the wildstock in the Tanavas Strait, perhaps all of which is the most important salmon-bearing watercourse we have in this country. And we share that with Finland. And if we don't get it – when we already recognize that it's an overfishing, a fishing that makes us unable to keep this stock in good hold – if we don't have anything clear that we can do, this fishing will continue. We can risk that before we reach an agreement, maybe if anything else, the population might be so small that it can even collapse. That's a situation we don't want to get into. In this case, the Progress Party believes that the concern for the wild stocks must go ahead of the local administration. To the representative of Bergstø, who spoke of us not having listened to the local administration. It happens every day: SV is completely opposed to local management in the case of farming, in the case of the sea fishing fleet. In the case of others, it is suddenly not the local government, then it is the stock management and the possibilities that underlie it. This is where the wildstock must go in front of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1907	I think it is quite free from the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party to go up and say that SV is not engaged in local administration, less than a week after more communities have been looted for the universality of trawlers to fishing communities. It wasn't exactly the representative Harald T. Nesvik who listened to the communities then. But it was not the representative Nesvik who made me speak, it was the representative of Korsberg, who was up on two occasions. I think he's unreasonable, he came up with unreasonable criticism of SV, and therefore I think it's important just to get some points in place. And then I think it's great that he stands up for this part of the government's policy, since he doesn't stand up for the government's predatory policy. It's the other thing that's had to do, like, Wolf policy SV. But then, to Øyvind Korsberg: Yes, SV sees that there is a need to reduce fishing in Tanaelven. That is why an SV minister from the red-green government started work on renegotiating this agreement. That should have been an indication that we had understood the point. When deciding on something of great local importance and where it has been agreed in its own laws to have local administration, it should be a point to ensure that those who are to be managed in the system and those affected by it feel that they are involved in the process. That's often the most important thing. Although one should disagree with the outcome, it is crucial to have been included in the process. But there has been serious criticism, and the consequence of this is that all the local hearing bodies are opposed to the result that has emerged, and partly significant and serious criticism of the amount of involvement in the process. The representative of Korsberg has not been so busy touching it in his posts, but it has affected me, and it has been heavy on the scale for us because we say that this is something we cannot agree to. There is much greater legitimacy for these kinds of decisions if you are in dialogue with people. When the government decided to raise the entire Engebøfjellet in Førdefjorden, there was no one from the political leadership of the Ministry of the Environment or from the Ministry of Planning who visited people in Wevring, talked to them and explained why they thought it was a good idea. My experience is that political leadership at Vidar Helgesen – the Council of State will correct me if I am wrong – after the agreement was negotiated, also has not been in Tana, in dialogue with people and received feedback. It had at least been tricked by him to do, for then he had shown that he took the locals seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1922	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1928	I will not go any further, but just stress that I think it is quite essential, and important, when the Storting assumes that local government – that local democracy and those appointed locally will be involved in consultation and developing the agreement basis – that it will be followed up. If you don't lose your full confidence in the Storting as an organ and in the administration that's actually going to happen there. I also think the Progress Party should think a little bit about what they themselves do when they talk about double communication. If one goes from the Tanavas trek down to Hardangerfjorden and thinks about caring for the national responsibility for wild birds, it may not be the Progress Party that should hit the chest the hardest. Go over to the wolf and think about how one argues there, I also think there'll be some contradictions. On the basis of this case, I think it is a pity that the Stortinget is not clear – when we vote today – that the local administration, through clear guidelines from the Stortinget in the past, has been given significant importance and the basis for the conclusion of the agreement. I think it's a shame the Storting leaves.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e1937	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6 and 7. Case No. 8–13 is the second time legal proceedings are under way, and the President will propose that cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2001	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 8-13.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2107	The left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2119	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2126	President! I did not vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2132	You pressed wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2137	I forgot to press.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2142	You forgot to press, yes. Okay. What would you prefer to press?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2147	I wanted to push.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2152	You wanted to push. The vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2166	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2219	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2229	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2238	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ola Elvestuen on behalf of the Left, Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment the proposals No 2-4, by Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens the proposals No 5 and 6, by Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 by the Greens. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set a target of halting the loss of wild-earth nature in Norway by 2019.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the end of 2018 to present a package of measures and any legislative changes necessary to stop the loss of wild-earth nature in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2270	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–4, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to map the nature values in the last wilderness areas of Norway in order to propose how these are to be ensured, and to restore areas where technical intervention has been undertaken, in order to increase the natural values of these areas.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to reintroduce the ban on subsidising forest highways into wild-field areas.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a significant increase in the threshold for non-interventional nature.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2297	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Left, Socialist Left and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the County State has a low threshold to promote objections to interference with the wild landscape.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2330	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment the proposals No 2 and 3, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party proposal No 4, by Ketil Kjenseth on behalf of the Left, Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 5, by Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party and the Greens proposal No 6, by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment the proposals No 7 and 8, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 9 and 10, by Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Greens There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 10, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure a strong stepping-up of the grant scheme for action against marine pollution in future government budgets.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked in the revised budget to consider increasing the ceiling on grants for the disposal of recreational craft in excess of the level of NOK 15 000 adopted in the 2017 budgetary agreement.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2374	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for follow-up to the Environment DG’s proposal to amend the pollution law, in order to allow municipalities to finance the setting up and emptying of waste containers and the cleaning up of landfills in certain areas at a separate cleaning fee.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure a wide range of testing of cork and other environmentally friendly materials in artificial grass tracks during 2017.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2396	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks to increase the pledge of all pans and cans to at least DKK 5 per unit.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2413	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Centre Party and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘During 2017, the government asks for proposals for a subsidy scheme to be applied for by Norwegian municipalities to support the testing of cork or other environmentally friendly materials in artificial grass tracks.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2432	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Left, Socialist Left and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to put in place a manufacturer’s liability regime for equipment used in the fishing and farming industries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2450	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to cooperate in mortgages between Norway and other Nordic countries.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the pledge in bottles and cans to ensure that a greater proportion is recovered.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2472	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the testing scheme ‘Fishing for Liter’ to a country-wide and permanent reward scheme where fishermen can be paid to deliver marine waste.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2511	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2530	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2558	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Eirik Milde on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party, Left and member Korsberg of the Progress Party proposal No 3, by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the member Fredriksen of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Labour Party, the Senterpartiet and the member Fredriksen from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to launch a work based on modern research and traditional knowledge for combating predators on salmon and salmon smolt in the Tanava stretch. It is assumed that this work will be carried out by the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Tanavas stretch of fish management in cooperation with local hunters’ and fishermen’s organisations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2599	An alternative is to vote between the Committee's position on I and II, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the member Fredriksen of the Progress Party, and the proposals No. 1 and 2, from the Right, Christian People's Party, Left, and the member of Corsberg from the Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size consents to the conclusion of an agreement between Norway and Finland on fishing in the Tanavas Strait of 30 September 2016.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks in the follow-up to the new agreement on the management of fishing in the Tanavas Strait to involve local rightholders and Sami as indigenous persons as far as possible.’ The President has reason to believe that the other members of the Progress Party will vote with the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the member Korsberg of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2643	Case No. 8–13 are the second time legal proceedings and concern legislative acts 62–67. There are no proposals for comment on any of the cases, and the Bill of the Grand Duchy 62–67 is therefore approved at second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-28.ana.ud112e2719	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
