ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e30	The representatives Emilie Enger Mehl, Silje Heimdal, Vetle Wang Soleim, Mudassar Kapur, Petter Eide and Ingerd Schou, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For the Province of Buskerud: Eilev Bekjorden For Finnmark County: Nancy P. Anti
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e73	The representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e78	On behalf of the big-time representatives Jenny Klinge, Liv Signe Navarsete and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for a representative to set up a total emergency committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e83	The representative, Jonas Gahr Støre, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e88	On behalf of Marit Arnstad, Audun Lysbakken, Trine Skei Grande, Knut Arild Hareide and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the election of members to the Nobel Committee. On behalf of the five parties, I ask that this proposal be considered in accordance with point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Storting Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e93	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before we go to the agenda, the President will ask the representatives to stay in the Chamber, as there is reason to believe that it will be a vote quite quickly. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that case No. 3, Unit, to be dealt with before the case No. 1 and 2. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e117	The President will propose that this draft representative be dealt with in accordance with point (c) of the second paragraph of Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments on this? Hans Andreas Limi.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e124	On behalf of the Progress Party, I would suggest that the proposal that has now been put forward should not be dealt with urgently under point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39, but that it should be forwarded to the Presidency in order to be dealt with together with the proposal that the Advance Party has previously promoted, to ask the Presidency to take the initiative to draw up a regulation, guidelines for who can be elected to the committees, selections and names appointed by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e129	Two motions for resolutions on Minutes Nos 1 and 2 have been tabled. 175. It is the President's proposal to deal with the case under point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39, and it is proposed by the representative Hans Andreas Limi to forward the matter to the Presidency. A round of comments from one representative of each batch group is opened.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e136	As the representatives heard, the Right is not part of that proposal, so I thought it was okay to give an explanation of vote. The right does not want to vote in favour of an urgent debate on this draft representative. As Mr Limi pointed out, the Progress Party has already submitted a proposal that will address the issues related to elections, among others. to the Nobel Committee. The fact that this is to be dealt with urgently, we will oppose it and vote against the fact that it is dealt with under point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e143	The centre party sees it as expedient to have this matter dealt with before the election committee of Storting meets. From our side, we emphasize that this is not a new rule, it is a custom that is laid down in writing. We also stress that there are no specific demarcation problems related to this issue. It is true that there are also a number of other proposals, which will be dealt with at a later stage, but precisely as far as this rule is concerned, there are no demarcation problems. If a yes to a position on a roll-out list, a depositor or alternate becomes a representative. Therefore, the Central Party believes that the matter should be dealt with according to § 39, second paragraph, point (c), and I recommend the members of the Centre to vote in line with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e150	In that situation the Stortinget has ended, we think it is neat that we are getting a treatment of which principles are to be applied. The proposal that has been put forward concerns simply the adoption of what has been common practice and practice in Stortinget. That is why we believe it is natural and unproblematic to deal with it in accordance with Section 39(c), as the President has explained, and I would ask the SV's group to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e155	The President's proposal is to deal with this in line with paragraph 39, second paragraph, point (c). It supports the Christian People's Party. It is natural for us to have this matter discussed before the election committee meeting. It will be a tidy procedure, and I urge the representatives of the Christian People's Party to support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e160	I would also urge the representatives of the Left to vote in favour of the proposal that has been submitted, so that it will be discussed before the election committee meets – that the principles be laid down before the start of the debate on candidates. I think that's a neat and good way. I also think it is neat and nice that you have the opportunity to confirm what has been customary in the last elections. Because the Left has a lot of respect for the fact that the parties have to choose their candidates, it's not up to us to go for something that goes across it. To deal with the common legislation we have for appointment, we do very many times, and I hope we can do it now as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e165	Several have not asked for the floor, and we have finished the debate on this point in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e175	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. Alternatively, between the President's proposal, it is argued that the matter is dealt with in accordance with point (c) of the second paragraph of Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure and the proposal of the representative Hans Andreas Limi that the matter is dealt with in accordance with point (b) of the second paragraph of Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. the referral to committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e209	The President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e236	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 4 hours and 45 minutes, excluding lines and three-minute speeches, and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 80 minutes, Right 70 minutes, Advance Party 45 minutes, Center Party 30 minutes, Socialist Left Party 20 minutes, Left 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. The change of reply is proposed as follows: within the allocated speaking time, there will be access to one line with a response from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance per opposition party, together with seven lines, and four lines with a response from the main speakers of the parties, parliamentary leaders and other members of the government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e249	Let me start by thanking the Committee for good cooperation on the setting. I would like to express my special thanks to the representatives of Helge André Njåstad, Terje Breivik and Kjell Ingolf Ropstad for their good cooperation in the budgetary settlement. The State budget for 2018 continues and reinforces the main initiatives of the Solberg government. The 2018 budget will facilitate growth and value creation, new jobs, more in jobs and a sustainable and safe welfare society that promises those who need our common help. Health queues and waiting times should continue, the number of patient treatments should be continued. A new hospital in Nordmøre and Romsdal, a new hospital building at the Radium Hospital and a new hospital in Drammen are granted money. In addition, the hospital in Haugesund shall be modernised. We use the diversity of private and non-profit health actors. The package sequences are extended to several diagnostics, and the escalation of patients with psychotic disorders continues. Step by step realizes a health care system where the patient’s needs come before the system. The fight against child poverty is escalating. The number of residents is record low. The local economy is strong. The defence shall be gradually upgraded and modernised in line with the long-term defence plan and, in the coming years, major investments shall be made in the defence capability. The arrows point in the right direction in many areas. Unemployment goes down, growth goes up, more jobs are created, and more people come to work. It is good news that the arrows on the labour market are pointing in the right direction. Most estimates suggest that, in the future, we will experience greater economic growth. That's good news, because increasing economic growth means more at work. Several workers mean increased incomes and lower costs for the community, smaller differences and a more sustainable welfare society. Nevertheless, we experience that too many young people fall out of the labour market or never enter the labour market. For this reason, the government has introduced an activity obligation for young beneficiaries and absenteeism in secondary schools. To make demands is to care. At the same time, we have reduced the threshold into working life by modernising the Working Environment Act, for work is the safest foundation on which to build further growth and prosperity, and more in work means that we still ensure small differences in Norway. One of the foremost defenders of a more flexible work environment law is Eddie Eidsvåg. After working for many years with the Garbage Project, he felt that the changes in the Working Environment Act were incredibly important for the very target group he was working with. For some, challenges start early. Therefore, early school interventions are one of the most important measures we can take to give more children a good start to life and a real chance of getting through school and going to work. For many years there has been a joint effort between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party to invest more in the teachers. A great commitment to continuing education should make good teachers even better. Sharpened admission requirements at the teacher’s college give teacher training a higher degree of performance, and qualifications requirements ensure that those who work at school are well qualified. We've also hired about 1,000 new teachers in the last few years, and we've given the professions well deserved attention. When we see the school effort in the context of government research and competence policy, it draws a picture of a government that understands that the most important investment we can make as a society is to facilitate opportunities for more people and to realize their talents, dreams and ambitions. When the labour market is improving and more people are getting a job, it is not the government's earnings alone. Weak, sensible financial and monetary policies and policies that facilitate the creation of new jobs are among the elements that have helped to brighten the Norwegian economy. At the same time, we all know that a small, open and international economy like the Norwegians makes us vulnerable to international fluctuations in commodity prices and market cycles. Therefore, the transition of the Norwegian economy must continue. In 2019, we will take the first step to abolish machine taxes, which will help make it more attractive to set up new businesses in Norway. We also continue to slow down the strange tax on enterprises owned by people living in Norway, and the taxes on people and companies are reduced to 23 pst. - Down from 28 pst. in 2013. All of this makes it easier to claim in the competition to be an attractive country to work and operate, while at the same time a well-developed welfare society helps us to be a good country to live in. The oil industry is still very important for the Norwegian economy, and will be so for many years to come. Three years ago, when we experienced the greatest fall in oil prices in several decades, it showed us how vulnerable we can be. There is a need for more strong legs to stand on. Research and technology development in the petroleum sector shows that a small country such as Norway can be at the global technology top, and many of the technological solutions have high transfer value to other sectors. At the same time, Norway has probably the best technology support schemes in the world to help develop new technologies to accelerate the green shift and reduce emissions. In total, it will also improve competitiveness. The state budget for 2018 is also the starting point for the follow-up of the historic campaign on the road and the course of which the government, the Left and the Christian People's Party agreed before the summer. This, too, will increase the country's competitiveness and allow values to be created across the country. When the rule of action was adopted, there was a broad consensus that the oil money phased into the Norwegian economy would be used to invest for the future. Priority should be given to knowledge, research and development, infrastructure and growth-promoting tax incentives. The government is delivering better on this goal than the former governments have done, while the level of oil money use needs to be adapted to the situation in the Norwegian economy. This is why oil money has been growing more strongly in recent years than we will see in 2018 and beyond. However, we have lowered the rule of action for the use of oil money from 4 pst. to 3 pst. of the value of the fund. Despite the fact that the Workers' Party in particular has criticised us for spending too much oil money, we also see that it distinguishes about 4 per million in oil money consumption overall over the last five state budgets. This must mean that the party is in practice reasonably satisfied with the government's policy in this area. Transport budgets have increased by 60 pst. since the government joined, the maintenance facilities on the road and the track are being reduced after many decades of continuous growth, and road projects are now being realized faster and cheaper than planned. The last is in itself a revolution in transport. The establishment of Nye Veier AS has contributed positively. It is estimated that the company will save the state for 30 billion dollars. kr in the following years, based on the contracts so far concluded. This is an example of innovation that we need to see more of in the public sector. The action space in the Norwegian economy is going to be smaller in the years to come. In order to preserve well-being, there is no alternative but to rethink both in the public and private sectors. New Veier AS, the rail reform, the police reform, the municipal reform and more digitisation are among the government's modernisation handles in order to make services better and get more well-being and better results out of every public crown we put in. The time when politicians struggle to spend as much money as possible for various good purposes must gradually be over. Good intentions in the form of more money must be balanced against the results the money gives. We who are politicians, and I dare to include all of us, are too often jumping too fast to the conclusion that more money is the answer, no matter what the challenge is. In the case of New Veger, we see that less money can actually produce better results – because it is not money alone that has been the problem in Norwegian transport. There have been long planning times, rigid control plans, rematches and a piecely and divided approach to development parcels. Modernisation, digitisation, automation and robotisation are among the instruments to release resources for those policy areas where money is an important part of the response. The projections of the Perspective Communication show how it can work if we do not succeed in creating more values, increasing productivity and improving the efficiency of public services. The operations don't go up. The alternative to change is confusion. I believe that the state budget for 2018 responds well to the challenges ahead: Long-term migration must take place to ensure the well-being of the future. The economy and society must become greener. The public sector must continue to be reformed. Several children must be given opportunities regardless of their social background. We need to ensure all the necessary digital competences. Our security must be ensured. The number of young people out of work needs to be reduced. In a society where we are becoming fewer and fewer young people who are going to support more and more older people, where international competition is getting tougher and the need for greater migration, the 2018 budget is moving us in the right direction. There's a reason to enjoy. With that, I look forward to a constructive debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e320	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e325	Let me also thank the chairman of the Committee for a good cooperation on the budget. I don't think any government in any country has ever had as much money at its disposal as the Right Party and the Advance Party have had in their nearly four years and four months in government. This is a government that has spent as much oil money as all the other governments in Norway combined did before they joined. 1 000 B.C.E. NOK has been used, partly under the cover of the fact that we have had a terrible economic development, high unemployment and weak job growth. My question to Astrup is this: what social reforms are left after 1 000 billion. Over five years, and what major efficiency reforms have the Progress Party and the Right implemented that ensure that we spend our money better?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e334	Let me first address the question of oil money usage. So, as I said in my article, there's a four-pro-mill distinction between the Labour Party's oil money use in this period, the last five budgets, and the government's oil money usage. Then I think it sings quite well in the glass house when this criticism is promoted by Trond Giske. So to what we've spent money on, we have, among other things, spend money on health care and have reduced health cows by 70 000. Let me put it this way: it's not random, because the last time we were in government, the health cows went down by 50,000. Now they've gone down by 70,000, and they're going down. We are now stepping up the efforts of patients in need of treatment for drug and mental disorders, and we have increased efforts to combat child poverty, to mention something, in addition to finding room to make it more attractive to create new jobs in Norway — both tax relief and well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e341	Now my question was not about the difference in the level of oil money use, but about the content. While former prime ministers and finance ministers have carried out major social reforms — one year of maternity leave, full child care coverage, lower retirement age, a fifth holiday week and many major advances — without oil money, the Progress Party and the Right have made it clear to the top 1 000 billion. In the course of five years there has been no major social reform. But the worst thing is that there is not a single efficiency reform left. The pension reform carried out by the red-green government improved the balance by over 30 billion. kr only in 2018. I ask the representative, Astrup, to outline the reforms that bring about almost equal savings – or let us deal with half or a quarter – like this reform, and that have been carried out by the reform government, the Progress Party and the Right. The opposition is criticised for not being in favour of reforms. Well, then, what major efficiency reforms this government has implemented can be presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e346	Among other things, we have a red tape reform that has released well 8.5 billion. kr so far, and it will also release large funds for other important priority tasks in the future. I think this criticism is a bit special from the representative Giske, given that the Labour Party has been either opposed or limped to virtually all the reforms that we have carried out in the public sector, which are necessary to improve services out of each krona – whether it is about municipal reform, police reform or there are many other important actions that are being carried out. I think maybe the representative Guess shouldn't get so tall and dark. Yes, the pension reform was important. We supported it, and now we need to complete that pension reform. It is not on the government alone, but it is definitely on the government's agenda. I expect that we will also receive the support of the Workers' Party. When I read the Workers' Party's alternative budgets in recent years, I don't see any sign of any major reforms along the lines Trond Giske here sketches. So again it sings well in the glass house.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e353	Once again, we are faced with a budgetary agreement with significant increases in fees – which have not been investigated and which have considerable consequences – among other things. a fee increase of more than 2 billion. kr for chocolate, confectionery and non-alcoholic beverages. The right does not seem to be influenced by the fact that this affects both arbitrarily and places jobs at risk in Norway’s largest mainland industry. But there are people who tend to listen to the right, at least traditionally, in most contexts, and that is the EU. In the case of new aid, it is required to be notified to ESA, for example: in the form of a tax exemption for some, while there is a charge for others. There are not only new aid schemes but also substantial changes to existing aid schemes. The European Court of Justice has indicated a limit of 50 p.m. The question then is: when the decision on the air passenger fee was taken in the past, was it at least so responsible for postponing implementation, so why is there no EU legal assessment now?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e362	As far as I know, these are the increases in the sugar and chocolate charge in the EEA Agreement legislation, and that is what we are dealing with. Moreover, the Central Party, which has been calling for many years to increase these charges, should be very pleased that the budget agreement has done so. In many ways, the Central Party's struggle for increased sugar levy has been passed, and that should be something that both the representative Borch and the representative Toppe, who have been exponents for this, should be very pleased today. I expect that this also applies to the representative, Gülsvik, and that you still stand on that view.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e367	On 1 August of this year, the cash support was increased by NOK 1500. Now parents who choose to stay home with their kids, $7,500 a month. From 1 January next year, this offer becomes even more attractive because the government increases the maximum price in kindergarten to nearly NOK 3000. I wonder if the representative of Astrup sees the paradox when we are trying to increase participation in working life, fight poverty and get better integration. Why can't you also increase child welfare, which we know doesn't keep working outside of work, but which keeps children out of poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e373	We have chosen to pursue a more targeted approach than increased child welfare by making kindergarten cheaper for those families that have the worst finances. That is also something we follow up through the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. The time you can have cash support is tight, so it is more focused on those who do not have kindergarten, which is also important. We also have a slightly different view of freedom of choice for families with children than SV, in this case freedom of choice for the smallest children. It has a self-esteem that you can actually choose if you want to wait a little while to send your children to kindergarten. All children are different and have different needs, and we respect that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e378	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e383	On one of my many school visits as head of the Education Committee in the previous period, I met a teacher who left a deep impression. We had talked about all the students who fall out of school without completing, and what it did to each of them. You know, the teacher asked what feels extra desperate. We could have done so much more if we just did the right things, and we would have got so much more again. We're wasting our opportunities, said the teacher. We could have done so much more if we just did the right thing. A better description can hardly be given of the policy of the Progress Party and the Right. We're wasting Norway's opportunities. What the State budget should be about is how we solve the major challenges Norway has, how we prepare for the future. Many people ask, what are we going to live on in the future? We're not going to live on interest from the oil fund or tax cuts. We shall live on the work and value creation of today's children and young people in the future. Therefore, there is no investment in new oil fields or the extension of the oil fund to unlisted shares or properties that will determine what Norway will look like, that is how we bet on children and young people. 60,000 students start school every fall — curious, educational, dreamy and hopeful, with parents hoping that the school will take care of their children. The basic vision, that everyone should have an equal chance of success in life, is for the Workers' Party the finest expression of the welfare state of Norway. 13 years later, 15 000 young people have left school without having completed, entering a new working life that has fewer and fewer unskilled jobs left. One of the major tasks the Labour Party will do is to create security and knowledge so that all children and young people can succeed. In our alternative budget are children and young budget winners, with a stake of 2 billion. more than the government of many new teachers, an intensive learning through early efforts, reading, writing and calculating guarantees, a more practical school, a healthy school meal and more physical activity, because there is no contradiction between public health and learning, as is the case with the Right Party and the Advance Party. Early work starts in kindergarten, so we go against the Progress Party and the Right account to common people who have kids in kindergarten, and instead propose more kindergartens and more employees. Let's use 1 billion. more than the Right Party and the Advance Party on early efforts, start work on a real boost for the professions and put money on the table for more health sisters and a stronger effort to combat bullying and help young people with mental challenges. In this area, the government is dragging its legs. But if we keep doing the exact same thing as before, we get about the same results as before. Luckily, the Christian People's Party in particular succeeds in moving budgetary agreements in the right direction – despite and not because of the Progress Party and the Right. In the fall, there are again high-ranking young people without a place to study. There are over 6,000 young people who want to learn a subject, go in and make an effort, but who get no place in a business or an enterprise to take the letter they dream of. It is Norway's most senseless queue, but under Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen this queue grows. 70,000 young people under 30 are out of work and education; the number of new young people has doubled in a few years. We're wasting our chances. Norway could have done much more. We live on each other's work, but under this government the proportion of the growing population employed is the lowest in 20 years. This is the second big task the Working Party will do. The Progress Party and the Right believe that the reason is that the unemployed and the disabled have it too well, and cuts in holiday pay for the unemployed, in the daily allowance for those who earn the least, in the child allowance for the disabled. But people want jobs. Young people who are unemployed want to qualify for work, people with disabilities want to be able to combine social security schemes with work, and older workers want to gain new knowledge so that they can stand in the job any longer. In the census, the prime minister said that the most important task for Norway is to ensure that no one goes out to date in working life. In the government budget that came the next day, there was no trace of effort to make sure people don't go out on a date in the world of work. It helps little that the Prime Minister keeps speaking from his tower far from people's everyday lives, when what is said is not followed up by action. The working party bets $2.5 billion. more than the government to increase employment and reduce social security, maritime industries, environmental technologies, new industries such as bioeconomy and health and welfare technologies. We put hundreds of millions on the table to develop business in the districts and will start the skills reform that will provide learning throughout our lives. 2 000 additional places of action should help those who work most in the new job. We are becoming more and more people who need good care and a good health service. We live longer, and medical progress gives us opportunities to provide many more good health care. In fact, more and more of us are going to be well over 100 years. That's good. But then we have to use the space and the strong economy we have to prepare for that future, so that we can provide good health and safe care for everyone. This is the third big problem Norway has to solve. So we bet $2.50. kr more than the government on good health and care for all. We strengthen the community economy strongly, so that we can give a good old age to everyone, so that we can double the growth in the health budget – 1.4 billion. more for faster treatment, new equipment, more hospital staff, new technologies, a large-scale focus on digitisation and health and welfare technologies. The progress part and the right part do the opposite. In fact, the 2018 budget is the weakest in terms of the growth of the hospital economy for many years. Still, the party’s taboo – or should we say previous taboo – is the care of the elderly, fed with small money from the government. We can't go on like this. We have to use the possibilities, we have to prepare Norway for the future. The fourth major task is to resolve the climate crisis, to meet climate change with strong policies that ensure that we achieve the 2 degree target. In our alternative budget, we point in four areas: zero-emission technologies in road transport, sustainable biofuels, climate-friendly shipping and carbon capture and storage. We grant what is needed for full scale carbon capture and storage demonstration facilities. It is unlikely that an environmental budget will have had a tougher share in the environmental movement than the Progress Party and the Right’s proposal for 2018. In previous years, we have heard both the Left and the Christian People's Party shout loudly to change the Progress Party and the Right's weak climate budget. This year it was alarmingly quiet – particularly alarming because the bet was so weak. We have over 2 billion. kr more than the government in our commitment to climate and environment. That package is going to be downgraded, but perhaps it will lead to those in this room agreeing that we need to focus more on cutting climate emissions, not less, will make some reflections about where the focus of climate and environmental policy in this room should lie. I would also like to mention some of the extraordinary efforts we have in our alternative budget. With a total of $1.6 billion. More than the Progress Party and the Right to the Districts, we will create new jobs and a good welfare offer across the country with a strong deployment of broadband, an active industrial policy, strengthening police districts and a significant welfare promise. We have a huge effort for digitization, with 1.2 billion dollars. more than the government, technological commitment at school, the reform of competence for lifelong learning, making Norwegian business leaders in the introduction of new technologies and digitising the public sector. We want a powerful lift in the fight against violence and abuse to make everyone safe by strengthening the police, strengthening child protection, by voluntary organisations. The party of progress and the Right cut against the volunteers in this field is well represented as one of the most petty and brutal in the government's budget. Under the Progress Party and the Right, differences are increasing in Norway. The richest have received the big tax cuts, ordinary people and families receive small money, tax increases and higher kindergarten prices. The tax arrangements of the Workers' Party will result in a fairer distribution. Those who have the most have to pay more. People with normal or low incomes have to pay less. We say no to the Progress Party and the Right big bill to the commuters. Our option is to create more and share better. Once the space for action has become smaller, the choices must also become more important. We want to create a fairer society, where everyone gets the opportunity to participate, with stronger communities and small differences. Let's use the possibilities Norway has. I refer to the proposal that the Labour Party has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e427	The representative Trond Giske has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e434	I was essentially going to ask the representative Giske about the use of oil money for the Workers' Party, but now we've established that it's at exactly the same level as the government, so I don't have to do that. The representative Geske mentioned in his post that he, like us, is concerned with a more fair society. That's good. At the same time, there is a lot of evidence that the Labour Party's policy is not working. Why could it be that when the red-greens crashed the country, there were 22,000 more young people who ended up out of work, 15 000 more poor children, and the hospital queues got longer – despite the rise in taxes, and there was a fantastic period of economic growth because the oil price was up to 140 dollars at the highest? My question is simple: how can it be that Trond Giske did not achieve better results when he actually had the power to implement his policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e441	There is an extremely interesting debate about the future, and I think that the representative of Astrup should sign up for it. You've been running for a whole period of growth, and even into a new period of the Progress Party and the Right you're busy talking about the eight red-green years. We like to do that – full child care coverage, many tens of thousands of health and care workers, 360 000 more jobs, less differences between people – like that. But now let's talk about the future. How do we use this wealth of money, the thousands of billions of dollars, in a better way? How do we create jobs for people? What do we do about what's almost 100,000 children in long-term low-income families? What do we do with the 15,000 that's still dropping out of school? It helps them very little that the representative Astrup here would prefer to talk about things that have happened ten or fifteen years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e446	The fact that the Workers' Party is winging in important political areas, we have become well used to the last few years. Now they're no longer talking about 15 billion. Tax-enforcement kr – now it's up to 15 billion. kr. However, it is not the only political area where the Workers' Party is winging in its alternative state budget. When the Promskrittspartiet and SV launched the idea of a kindergarten settlement a decade ago, the Arbeiderpartiet was commendably involved. The representative Giske was even the case rapporteur in Stortinget. One of the most important pillars of the agreement was that municipal and private kindergartens should be treated equally, also financially. However, in its alternative budget, the Labour Party cuts 300 million. kr to non-municipal kindergartens. Why is it so important for the Workers' Party and Trond Giske that children in non-municipal kindergartens are at risk of getting a qualitatively lower offer than children in municipal kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e453	It is absolutely right that one of the premises of the kindergarten agreement was equivalent funding for private and public kindergartens. But then we know that the public kindergartens take a large part of the task of taking the most resource-intensive kids, and then equal treatment is not equal to the crowning amount per nursery place in private and in public. Then it has to be taken into account that the public kindergartens have this extra task, and that's what we're doing in our alternative budget. And when we talk about turning around, well, in the election campaign, the Prom Party and the Right rolled over a teaching norm at the municipal level that the Workers' Party proposed. Today they will vote in favour of a school-level teaching standard. The election campaign promised major tax reliefs, now increasing the fees by 2 billion. kr. The election campaign promised that the property tax should be abolished, today it is decided that it should not be increased as quickly as the municipalities might want. So a course to turn around, wing and break promises I would like to take any time with the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e460	Conditions in the labour market are becoming more unsafe in the practical professions. The employment rate falls radically. Most notably, young men with low schooling have fallen. Among men aged 25 to 29 with only primary education, the employment rate fell from 79 pst. to 66 pst. from 2006 to 2016, i.e. the entire 13 pst. The trend is also continuing among young males aged between 30 and 40. The proportion of unemployed young people is increasing, and there are almost 100,000 people under 30 who are neither at work nor under education. The centre party believes that this development must be reversed, and the Labour Party agrees. In the committee setting, the working party says: ‘It requires targeted policy action.’ My question is: Does the Workers' Party agree with the Centre Party that an important part of the targeted effort is to move away from free labour immigration and to controlled labour immigration from EEA countries outside the Nordic region?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e472	I believe that when we were in government together, we did powerful things to combat social dumping. We made collective agreements where necessary. We strengthened the Labour Inspectorate and the control of unprofessional workers. We stepped up the tax haven's ability to go after companies that run unprofessionally. It's a shame that this work doesn't have the same strength now as under us, so this is an area where we stand together. I think we can handle this within an EEA agreement, it has a great impact on Norwegian business. But we have to be aware of the complications it entails. In sectors such as construction and transport, we see that there are, in part, very unprofessional conditions — on the brink of crime — so this must be tackled by all means. And it also has to do with recruiting these professions, for how can one say to a youth that he is going into a profession with such relationships? It's very much about getting young people, especially boys, into these jobs in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e479	I have noticed the Workers' Party's comments on the national budget where they write well about climate risk. It's a topical issue. The oil price drop over the last four years has shown us how vulnerable the Norwegian economy is, and it is obvious that a tighter climate policy, climate change itself and the big shifts we see in the energy markets will affect a small, open and oil-based economy like the Norwegian one. That is why I am pleased that the Labour Party mentions this. I also notice that they write about the climate budget, the carbon budget that we have to use in the future, and say that it is only a small part of the world's total oil, coal and gas reserves that can actually be extracted. What effect does the representative Giske think should this have on Norwegian oil policy? Is there a need for changes in Norwegian petroleum management, the concession system and the tax regime, or can we continue as before?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e487	It's quite obvious that the world can't go on like before. We have to cut the world's climate emissions by maybe 70-80 pst. to have a climate-neutral and stable future. Much of the oil, gas and coal resources must remain underground, but instead of picking out individual fields and saying that it will be lying down, the Labour Party believes in an effective climate policy that is about making fossil energy more expensive. Then the less profitable fields will be lying down and the most profitable ones will be used. Then coal is phased out, then gas becomes a good transition, and then we make sure to achieve this goal. Therefore, it is gratifying that progress has been made internationally, but we must continue to reduce our oil dependence. We have received interesting proposals from the oil fund about this. The most important oil dependence we have is the use of oil money and the enormous phase-in that has been in those years. No other government has increased oil dependence in Norway as much as it is currently sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e494	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e499	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation, but also thank our committee secretariats and join the Ministry of Finance, which has helped us at all times of the day to set up a budget and an adjustment. This will be the third article on the draft budget of the Progress Party and the Right. It is the fifth budget in a row in which the Progress Party has had a direct impact. It's a budget that secures economic growth, more jobs and a viable welfare society. Our goal is to give people more freedom and security, and to show action. The budget is now approved, passing on the main areas of activity to the Progress Party and the Right in areas such as defence, the National Transport Plan, which we adopted this summer, investments in police, research and tax relief. We have been through a difficult period with a continuing low oil price, a refugee crisis and an increasingly troubled and unwieldy value. I am pleased that the Progress Party has been helping to steer the country safely in this situation, and we are now seeing new optimism. Progress batch images in this budget are clear. I want to name a couple of points: Today, we are making an important decision in the treatment of the budget to remove property taxes on machinery. It is an important contribution for many businesses around Norway. It helps to secure jobs, but it also helps to create opportunities to establish new ones. Green data centres have been mentioned in particular, and Norway has had a disadvantage in establishing them. Now, the Stortinget removes the inconvenience, and it can give good repercussions to many of the municipalities in the country. In addition to removing the so-called machine tax, we reduce the operating space that municipalities have to introduce and increase the property tax on houses and cabins. It is a very important matter for us in the Progress Party. When we see a house, we see a home, not a treasure item. We continue to ensure well-being by strengthening the local economy. Looking at the last four years, the local economy has been better. Now we are taking new steps in this budget by giving more money to teachers and health sisters. We continue the run-up to the drug field, and we continue the pilot project for a state-funded care for the elderly, which is certainly not phased out as one of the core issues of the Progress Party – it is an important matter – and we already see good results in the municipalities participating in the trial project. Our goal is to strengthen the care of the elderly further. The best unit of measurement for the municipal economy thinks I am the number of municipalities that are in the ROBEK register, and it is very nice to see that we are down to 28 municipalities on 1 December. It has never before been so few municipalities that are ROBEK-registered, and it indicates that the municipality economy is good in Norway. This budget is responsible, and it is adapted to the economic situation in the country. The main challenge we have in the future is to create new, profitable jobs in the private sector. If we are to succeed, we must give priority to measures that increase the growth potential of the economy and strengthen the private sector. The government has done so in all the budgets, and we continue to do so in the budget for 2018. The Norwegian economy is adaptable. We see that in the budget, and we see that in the number of jobs created. Although the fall in oil prices has led to fewer jobs in that sector, we still see that many new jobs have been created and the arrows are pointing in the right direction. When we see that the changes in the tax package in the 2018 budget have been fully phased in, we have reduced taxes and taxes by 24.4 billion through these five budgets since 2013. kr, i.e. a significant contribution, making sure that most people have more to route with and can be more boss in their own everyday lives, and that businesses have the opportunity to invest and create jobs. It's the Progress Party happy to join. It's important given the positiveness that we're seeing. If we hadn't had the five budgets with tax credits, we wouldn't have had the same positiveness that we're now seeing. And if it wasn't this budget that had been agreed, but one of the alternatives, the protests from business and people had been much bigger. Finally, the Progress Party is also very pleased that the Billistan are coming out of this budget. The car is a symbol of freedom and is important to people, especially people in the districts, who have no other possibilities. So we're glad that we're once again delivering a budget where gas prices don't go up, and we're going in a more environmentally friendly direction for new cars that renew the fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e527	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e532	The progress party promised to pay a fee in the election campaign, almost every turn, and today put on about 2 billion. NOK in fees. Coming up with new charges is nothing new in these times, for four weeks before Christmas an actually tends to bring it overnight. This is a major economic disadvantage. New fees have been introduced for between 6 and 7 billion. kr in the period of the Progress Party shall have its seat in government. What fees is the representative most proud of?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e539	It's interesting to get questions about taxes and taxes from a lot that will now increase taxes and taxes by 8 billion. kr, while one in the election campaign went in for 15 billion. SEK in additional taxes and charges. I just told you in my main post that we have reduced taxes and charges by over 24 billion. kr in the previous and this period because we think it's the right policy to make sure people keep more. When it comes to the budgetary conciliation, there is no guarantee that the Progress Party is not as happy about everything, but we are happy about the soundness, especially when we see the Labour Party's alternative, which would have been the second option, and which would have meant significant tax and tax sharps. Therefore, the original draft budget by the government is combined with the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left better for both the people most and the business world. If a question about my favorite, it's that we've gotten rid of the machine tax, which will mean a lot of jobs in the districts. It is definitely the Progress Party's favorite of taxes and taxes that are being reduced in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e546	I asked about taxes and not about the property tax. That's what I asked the representative about what he was most proud of. But it can act as if the representative thinks that the government should measure what is in its own budget, and not what has come into the negotiations. In that case, an option taxation must be assumed to be something for which the Progress Party will not be taken into account in income. It wasn't like that in the original budget. Putting on kindergarten prices is clearly very proud of the representative – NOK 1 320 a year more in expenses for the individual. But I ask again: What is the representative most proud of the fees you have contributed?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e553	We take responsibility for the budget unit, but of course we spend most of our time talking about the image of the Progress Party in the main budget. But we are very satisfied with the budgetary agreement in the field of option taxation, on which the representative asked questions. When it comes to kindergarten prices, which one was also in, I almost have to say that it was me who introduced the scheme that those who have the least, get a lower price and can not pay, so it has been a real social profile. I didn't think it was easy to say that one should pay a little more for the good service that kindergarten is. I didn't think a signal should be sent to all kindergarten teachers out there saying that one is not worth the extra increase, especially when we have screened those who have the least. When it comes to the question of which fee has increased that I am most proud of, we in the Progress Party are not particularly proud to increase taxes. That is why we are pleased that we have reduced taxes by over 24 billion. kr in this period, and we will continue to do that. We believe that the alternative, which would have the budget of our Labour Party, would have been far worse for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e560	I find it hard to believe that the representative Njåstad really believes in what he himself says. He looks sort of fluttering, a little insecure – takes himself to the face and is a little uncertain about whether he should talk about fees. I understand that, because in the first four years, the Advance Party increased the fees by almost 4 billion. kr from the government. When it comes to the annual budget round, new tax bombs appear each year. This year, the new tax bomb was to increase the fees for the Norwegian food industry by 83 pst. I had not in my wildest imagination believed that it was a Progress Party State Council, Finance Minister Siv Jensen, who was to be responsible for such a type of fee increase. But if you start to read what they do, you can see that all the seafarers who drive Helge André Njåstad home will get NOK 16 500 less in tax deductions because you remove the rent supplement. Why does the Advancement Party think it is extremely smart that seafarers who do an honest job should get 16 500 kroner less in tax deductions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e565	Well, when it comes to the rent supplement, it's a system from the 1920s that's okay for one now to harmonise with the other things that are done on the tax side. I don't think that's big stuff. Besides, the rent supplement is about the benefits you have when you're home – when you're not at sea – so I don't think the Center Party should worry so much about the adjustment that's going on. When it comes to the fees, I thought it was a little strange that the Center Party now runs the populist variant, all the time it was the Center Party that asked the Ministry of Finance first in this budgetary process, about increasing the price of shower and soup. Everyone who has listened to the representative Toppe's posts from this room has reported that increasing the price of snoring and shower really is a dream cause for the Center Party, more than for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e572	In the SV's alternative budget, we propose to make the tax system more progressive — redistributive — so that the typical employee comes out in plus compared to the government's proposal. For example, a family with two adults and two children – two symbols of freedom, or diesel cars – with 400,000 kroner in wages and no wealth, which applies to a large number of people, will go out in plus nearly 7 000 kroner compared to the budget provided by the government, because we give priority to the many, not the few. Will not a party that has the slogan ‘most people’ be more comfortable with such a proposal than with a government budget where they have revenues of more than 10 million. Do they receive a tax cut of NOK 89 000, while with revenues of up to DKK 600 000 they receive DKK 100 in tax cuts, as is the case in the government budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e578	If we compare the wholeness of our options and the budgets of the Progress Party, there is no doubt that most people are better off with our tax and tax credits, and it is also a myth that they are the ones who have the most already received the largest tax credits. It's quite common people who buy a new car during the period, who get a lot of light on the one-time charge with our arrangements. Looking at the health situation, the policy of the Progress Party is improving and influencing, rather than the policy proposed by the SV as an alternative, which means increasing taxes and charges for all, but especially for the richest. We are also concerned about facilitating a policy that makes people want to create jobs, because that's what we have to live on in the future, that's people who take risks and create jobs. We don't want a review of those who have the most of them already. What they are primarily rich about is responsibility, because they create jobs. I'm not embarrassed to have a policy that makes sure that we honor the founders that make us so many billions to distribute every year in the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e583	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e588	The main bearer in the Norwegian economy is the mainland economy. It is the evolution of the mainland economy that is crucial for our prosperity development – your and my private economy. This is what is essential for Community action in schools, health, defence, police and roads – the power of the public to lift one another. We have a large economic space in Norway, thanks to wise choices ahead of us and not least a good management of our natural resources and a clear strategy for how these resources can create jobs and value creation in Norway. The political debate is a little from day to day, but looking at the long lines of Norwegian political history, there has been a clear line of conflict on how to manage our natural resources. When the concession laws came in time, the Right of the Time called it "panic laws". Fortunately, it was a political majority who adopted a wise management of our natural resources. We have reaped that in terms of fishing, soil and forest, oil and gas, and it has given us a huge space for action. We have guaranteed national ownership of the resources. We have ensured national control, and we have had a policy that has built industry and value creation throughout the country. There have been many forward-looking politicians before us, who have thought completely, thought long-term, they have thought nationally and built Norway. In recent years, following the fall in oil prices, investment in oil and gas industries has fallen sharply — from a peak of around 230 billion. NOK 150 billion. kr in 2017. Nearly parallel to the fall in oil prices, the crown has weakened, and it has weakened sharply. It has increased the competitiveness of Norwegian industry, it has been partly the saving of parts of the forest industry, it has strengthened the competitiveness of fisheries, aquaculture and tourism. The food industry has also had a very good period, thanks to lower crown prices and good political choices. The Norwegian economy has been strongly stimulated. There has been a record high use of oil money. We've had record low interest rates. We have had a weak crown, and there has been good access to skilled labour. The conditions for large investments in the Norwegian mainland industry have been record-breaking, but investments in industry have not occurred. The freed resources of lower investments in oil and gas and low interest rates and low exchange rates have not moved to industry, they have moved to housing and property. That sector passes over 200 billion. kr in year. It's the new big engine in the Norwegian economy. Industrial investment figures are expected to be above 20 billion. kr. So, when the investments in our most profitable industry, oil and gas, have collapsed, property and housing are the new big industry. It's not sustainable over time. We can't live for wealth, not as a country. If we move from the national budget, which we are discussing today, to the state budget and the major public investment in the future, there are some things that come out very clearly. With the adopted national transport plan, we will spend over a thousand billion public dollars building traffic around the country. In the adopted long-term plan of defence, we're going to perhaps make the largest mainland investment ever by purchasing new fighter aircraft. We have large public building projects, as a new government quarter here in Oslo, which alone will cost an estimated 15-16 billion. kr. We're going to spend an enormous amount of money on big public investment. But the government has no idea how these projects can create new Norwegian industry. On the transport side, it seems that it doesn't matter whether it's a Chinese actor building up the road, or whether it's a Norwegian actor. There, of course, we need an industrial strategy, like when we started a research project to build the new Mjøsbrua in three. We have to use these projects to build our industry and our industry. With regard to fighter aircraft, today's government has been so passive that AIM Norway on Lillestrøm has lost contracts, and they have been moved abroad. Of course, when we have so much investment in the defence budget, we must have an industrial strategy for building our industry, our jobs and our skills. With regard to the government quarter, the government has always been reluctant to demand that you use, for example: to build that industry in Norway. It is frightening that at the time when investments in the Norwegian industry are record-breaking, the government is not using the opportunity to use public investment to build our industry. The largest industrial investment in recent years has been seen in the context of Hydro on Karmøy. They got 1.5 billion. kr in public support through Enova, because the public was actively involved. If you go down the list, Tine, Nortura and Orkla are the companies that have the most investments. And what is the characteristic of these industries? Well, it is the food industry that has accounted for a very large proportion of investment in Norwegian industry in recent years. What is today's budget doing? The industry that has invested the most is the budget of a targeted attack – with a 2 billion increase in fees. kr to the industry that has actually invested. It is completely irresponsible and unthinkable what is now happening – that we are going to have a targeted fee increase of 2 billion. kr to Norway's largest mainland industry, with a tax increase on individual products of 83 pst. At the same time, a 350 kroner limit is introduced which means that if you produce the same goods in Sweden, you have zero VAT, zero tax, and you can import them to Norway free of charge. It is incomprehensible that this is a good strategy from the government, from the Christian People's Party and from the Left. In the national budget, the government raises two more industries. They promise that aquaculture has strengthened, and they promise that tourism has strengthened. That it is positive, we all agree. Then it's interesting to look at the financial position and see what you're actually doing for one of the two big industries you're raising up as something positive. The Norwegian tourism industry is now receiving a new large increase in fees, if the majority of the population adopts what they have proposed. In the course of three years, the tourist industry has received 50 pst. More in VAT – it goes from 8 pst. to 12 pst. It is a targeted way of weakening the competitiveness of our tourism industry, which has until now been saved because of the krone price, while the government is doing what it can to weaken the competitiveness of the tourism industry. While Swedish tourism industry still has VAT of 8 pst., Norwegian tourism industry must now get a VAT of 12 pst. and over 700 million. NOK more in fees. What is so amazing about the budget proposal from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, is that the industries that have invested, the industries that have gone well and improved their competitiveness in recent years, are the ones that get the big tax and levy shops. One is the food industry, which is getting the almost shock-carded fee jump of over 2 billion. kr overnight. The second is the tourist industry, which has now received over three years a VAT increase of 50 pst. Both industries are very exposed to competition, from the Swedish tourism industry, the Swedish food industry, the Swedish commercial industry. It is incomprehensible that the Norwegian growth rate does what you can to weaken the conditions of our industries while strengthening the conditions of the industries in Sweden, because we cannot take the jobs as a matter of course. It's unwise, and it's short-sighted. Of course, in the budget of the Centre Party, there is a completely different charging policy. Firstly, we believe that the charging policy that has been against cars in recent years has been unwise, because many in Norway depend on cars. We have added to the stability of VAT for travel. We find it unwise to focus on weakening the competitiveness of such an important industry. Of course, we have a completely different predictability for the food industry. We have better depreciation rates, which make it possible to invest in new equipment and technology, which means that our businesses are being modernised. We have a commitment to agriculture, fish and forest, because it has been a success for Norway that we have live food production throughout the country, that we take care of raw materials resources and build industry. We've got a 500-million broadband bet. kr, which makes it possible to use new technology across the country, because it is important that we expand broadband now, as they built up the electricity grid at the beginning of the 1900s. We have a boost for services near people, because municipalities get 2.4 billion. kr more, because it is important for schools, for hospitals, for the basic services. We're very different about defence, because we believe that much of what's in the defense of fighter aircraft is good, but it's far too bad about army and home security, the basic country preparedness. We have another police budget. We want to strengthen the police districts, because we need a good preparedness across the country. The proposal of the centre party is thought through, it is targeted, it is industry friendly, it builds Norwegian industry, and it builds the whole country. I'm taking up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e620	The representative, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e627	The Labour Party and the Centre share concerns about increasing disparities between regions in Norway. There are differences in financial resources and service provision. Today's government is doing far too little to deal with these inequalities – evolution is going in the wrong direction. We agree on some important initiatives: we want billions of strengths for municipalities, we want to spend more money on public health businesses, we strengthen the Army and the police districts, and we agree not to punish those who have a long journey to work – as the government does – by 1 billion. kr. I hope we can agree on a policy to take full use of Norway and would like to hear the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum's analysis of what are the most important steps to ensure a good service provision throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e632	For the Center Party, it is vital that you have services close to where people live. Often, in the political debate, it seems boring to say that community economics is the most important measure. After all, it's the municipalities that offer school, offer nursing homes, and give a little extra money to the local cultural activities. So one of the most important things we do in our budget is related to the local economy, because it's so important to have the basic services close to where people live. Then we also have to have a business policy that stimulates us to get new jobs where there is often less private capital. That is why we have such a strong commitment to regional development funds as we have, and that is why we have such a targeted industrial policy as we have on both fisheries, forestry and agriculture, and a thoughtful tax policy on the food industry. In 2017 it is completely incomprehensible to me that a Minister for Transport from the Progress Party does not have a clearer commitment to broadband. If we are to use the whole country, the whole country must also have the opportunity to use new technological solutions. But it seems that the government has forgotten.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e641	In its speech, Mr Vedum called for a number of areas to be covered by additions to the budget of the Centre Party, for example: the Centre Party has a total of 1,3 billion. more than everyone else to the army and to the protection of the world. Then we heard a little about the containment. If we look closer, we see that there are a whole series of unrealistic deposits as well as unsocial cuts. The center part cuts a total of 1 billion. kr on health, an area represented by the Battle of Vedum drew forth as important, and kutter 1,2 billion. kr for the care of the elderly. But the most unsocial thing might still be that you take away 500 million. kr for the purchase of private services in the field of child protection. If you don't put it back to the public, it means a reduction in capacity, and there's the emergency room that's being hit. Why are the weakest groups – the sick, the elderly and the most vulnerable children – paying for the Centre's bets?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e648	We have a comprehensive 148-page budget paper. I understand that it can be difficult to read all the pages, and that's what you have to do if you want to see the budget in total. In terms of health, we have increased the money for health, but we have gone into ISF with a smaller share, input-driven funding, and more for framework transmission. If you look at the totality, there is more to hospitals, but we have less market funding and more security on basic funding for Norwegian hospitals. In the case of care for the elderly, we believe that it would be wiser to give the money that has been spent on state trials on the care of the elderly directly to the municipalities. So we haven't cut, just transferred it to the municipalities. And that's going to add up to the 2.4 billion. kr, which is a bet that allows you to build a nursing home and build care for the elderly. The same applies to child protection. So you've just priorityed differently. As far as the hospital sector is concerned, we simply want more basic funding and less ISF funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e659	As an old businessman, I'm busy with value creation, because value creation is necessary to finance all the promises that the Center Party has put into its budget. They're cutting taxes, they're cutting EEA funding – billions. I would like to ask Art Vold Vedum: how did he intend to obtain all these funds – when one sees the promises made into the Central Party's alternative state budget? It's a mystery to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e666	Once again, you have to read our entire alternative budget, because it's usually good, it's thoughtful and it's fully funded. One of the most important things we do in our alternative budget is, among other things. that we increase the depreciation rates for those who want to invest in Norwegian business, because this means that the cost of capital is lower at an early stage when investing. And then we have predictability in charging policy. All of us who have been engaged in private business know that one of the most important things that politicians do is to create predictability. Therefore, the type of charging jump that the Progress Party is now implementing again is over 80 pst. for parts of the Norwegian food industry – completely irresponsible. If you ask any business operator what's the worst for him, it's just a big change in policy. We agreed on a tax settlement with the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Workers' Party two years ago, just to create predictability, but then the Advance Party and the Right, with Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen at the head, with that kind of tax shock now at the end, which is a targeted attack on our industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e675	If we are to be able to cut greenhouse gas emissions, we must both reduce car traffic in key strokes and use environmentally friendly fuels, such as: biogas. In order for us to be able to use biogas, we have to make sure that the biogas pays off over the fossil gas. Road user charge for liquefied fossil gas, LPG, is an important tool to achieve this, but it will remove the centre batch. Why will the Senter Party weaken the competitive situation of the biogas, a fuel the batch otherwise propels?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e681	If you look at our climate budget, there's a lot of big grip there. The very largest asset is a CO 2 fund for business transport of 1 billion. kr, just to be able to convert the commercial transport into more environmentally friendly fuels. One looks at the full-scale CO 2 cleaning, where we're adding 340 million. kr, just for expanding industry and industry and climate in parallel. One looks at the forestry policy, where we're adding 171 million. kr for targeted forest measures, which allow one to make more use of wood, more CO 2 bonding. Then we also have a charging policy that is very predictable, because some of the challenge of biogas is to have an infrastructure that is well-developed throughout the country. That's why we think we need to interact with those who sell LPG, so we're going to be able to phase in biogas in the other transport industry. That's why we're doing this, because we're afraid that if someone takes away profitability, we're going to lose the entire infrastructure, and then we're not going to be able to phase in the biogas. So we have targeted, good grips to strengthen the industry, boost the profitability of this, and then we're dedicated to having an infrastructure that allows you to sell biogas across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e697	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e702	‘For the many, not for the few’ is the title of the SV’s alternative state budget for 2018. It is a budget that addresses the two major challenges we face – increasing class differences and the climate crisis – and they are linked and must be resolved together. In countries by country, communities are now being broken down and weakened. Increasing differences are poisoned. Ensuring small differences should be a priority. Nevertheless, it is hardly mentioned in the submissions so far from the Party of Advancement and the Right. Instead, we can read in the budget that now everything is going so much better – the growth of the economy is bigger, the labour markets are improving. I still allow myself to ask: better for whom then? We see that the differences are increasing in the world of work. There is a pay and bonus party at the top, while those who are the least paid have got it tougher. Too many young people are out of education and working life, the number of long-term unemployed is increasing, fewer are trade unionised, and parts of the world of work are becoming increasingly unsafe. And while the trade union worker stays out of work, and the nursery assistant must have eight years' service before the salary comes over 300,000 kroner, they own 10 pst. richest in Norway over 50 pst. of all assets — and the proportion is increasing. It's not that nice for the 0.1 pst. with the largest wealth has received 264 500 kroner in tax cuts from 2013 to 2017. But that wasn't enough, because in this budget they get worth over 100 million. NOK 150 000 in the tax bill. At least it's better for the richest in Norway. Those who could have had to do better are the disabled carers who have lost the child allowance, those who get less housing support, the employees of the country's hospital who have to run ever faster, parents with seriously ill children who have lost their care, the unemployed who have lost their holiday money, or the families of children who have to pay more for the kindergarten. So I ask again: better for whom then? I am at least a little uncertain about how the large tax cuts to those with share wealth should trickle down to the yard worker with termination benefits that have received tax increases. So the budget is not an answer to the increasing differences, nor is it an answer to the climate crisis. This summer we have experienced hot waves and that forest fires have conquered Europe. In East Africa, the UN is calling the greatest humanitarian disaster since World War II, a drought and famine disaster aggravated by climate change. And climate change is synonymous with injustice. As a rich oil producing country, Norway has a responsibility to cut emissions both at home and internationally. Therefore, every state budget must be the climate budget of the future. Unfortunately, the climate is the loser in the budget and in the budget agreement. Climate policy, which is largely pushed through by the Stortinget, is continuing without the necessary new efforts. We have a government that doesn't think it's that dangerous – they don't want to take leadership in climate policy. It's completely unclear where we're going and how we're going to get there. There is no climate target for Norway, no climate budget. Over the last few years, the most expensive fossil cars have, for example: the luxury car Porsche Cayenne, got the biggest fee cuts. The appropriations for the development of carbon capture technology have stopped. The country is wallpapered by four-field highways. Oil dependence is being reinforced. Yes, even the collective prices are going up. The impact of the Left and Christian People's Party in the budget agreement is primarily about the reversal of cuts proposed by the government. The climate agreement for 2020 was to be reinforced by this government, but it was broken in the previous period. For the next few years, no climate target has been set for Norway, and it is just to congratulate the Left and Christian People's Party on that, because then there is no goal to break either. One state budget is not supposed to solve all the world's challenges, but it shows a policy direction. Where governments and cooperation parties have agreed on a budget that increases differences in Norway, which spends the large amount of money on asphalt instead of on our children, SV has provided an alternative government budget for small differences, high employment and strong joint arenas — a budget that makes Norway part of the climate solution, not part of the climate problem. We give priority to four areas for smaller differences: a safe working life – to have a job is the most important economic security you can have. We want a real youth guarantee that helps young people get into working life. We prioritise new areas of action for the long-term unemployed and launch a full-time package. increase child-responsiveness – because a good childhood lasts for the rest of your life. As the differences increase, children are hit hardest, and more and more children are growing up in families who cannot afford school leisure or leisure activities. a school for everyone. I'm proud to present proposals that involve the first steps in our next major welfare reform, the all-day school. SV proposes for next year more room for depth learning, practical learning, homework, physical activity and health and free school food. Then the most important resource in school is the teacher. That is why there is every reason to say good work to the Christian People's Party, which has been passed on to the teaching norm, a matter of Christian People's Party and SV have been united about. And finally: a fair housing market because the housing market is still a driver of inequality and divided cities in Norway. We're proposing to fight housing speculation. We propose to strengthen the House Bank, so that more people can get a place to live, and more people get housing support. We're proposing changed rules for starting loans, and we're going to build more student homes. So we have put forward a budget with a climate policy for most people, a policy that allows the father on the Road, the kindergarten teacher in Sogndal and the coastal fisherman in Steigen to join in on climate change. But then the oil director must also meet. This budget is the first step in reducing Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions by nearly 5 million tonnes over this major period. There is more emissions than we have ever done in Norway. We launch a major effort on collective and environmentally friendly transport and prioritize 3 billion. more to the public in cities, more to investments in and maintenance of the railway, several routes and bicycles, and support for the conversion of ferry and boat transport from fossil to renewable energy. We're making it more expensive to buy a new petrol or diesel car and more profitable to choose an electric car. We also give priority — unlike the government — to making Norway less oil dependent. I hear the government parties talk about the oil becoming less important, but there is nothing in the policy that points to it. And then you're going to feel like everything's going to go on like it was before. But the tax revenue from the oil industry is falling. 17 out of 71 oil companies are now paying taxes, and the revenue of the oil fund from the base is decreasing. Goliath reminds us that individual fields in the future can become a purely loss project for the state. SV proposes to turn the bets into other industries and a new petroleum tax regime that takes on a new reality where we have to take less risk. There will be less room for action in the budgets ahead. All parties must be given greater priority. Then it is deeply worrying that we have a government that has been insatiable in eating of the future space of action. Never before has there been such a distance between income and expenditure as it is now. In 2013, the oil money usage was 125 billion. kr. For 2018, it is proposed to use 231 billion. kr. Every six kronor proposed used over the state budget for 2018 is a crown from the oil fund. This is the money of future generations, it is our common space for action – a wealth that we can use for better well-being and fewer poor kids and for combating climate change. But the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left have not spent the money on this. They have spent their money on tax havens for the richest and sparsely cut stands, and thus they have agreed on a budget that, despite the points of light as a teacher standard, will increase the differences and allow climate action to stand on the ground. It is therefore gratifying that I take up the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e760	The representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e767	The red tape and efficiencies reform, also known as the ABE, reduces all public activities by 0.5 pst. or more every year. This year it's going to be 0.7 pst. The government's proposal for a police operation in the West was one of the increases when it was at just 0.5 pst. The Labour Party has compensated in its alternative budget, for example: inside the police, with 275 million. kr more. I listen carefully, but I couldn't get the right representative from SV's response when it comes to improving the efficiency of the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e774	What I definitely talked about, so-called red tape and efficiencies from the government, is that we've actually seen over the last few years that there's really been a need for cheese from well-being. What is perhaps most frustrating about the cuts is what we now see of reports, concerns reports, from Norwegian hospitals, from the criminal services. By now, the NRK has been able to report quite dramatic cuts in criminal law, which affect a lot of people. What is also frustrating is that this is efficiency completely without management. There is no doubt that there is a need for efficiency in the public sector, a need for digitisation, for initial investment, but the government has therefore chosen to tackle it without management and without creating room for the necessary investment in, for example, the environment. digital solutions that we need for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e779	I share Kaski's view that it is important to get more people to work, especially our young people. That's why I think what's most fundamental is that Norwegian companies get to keep more of their own money, so that they can actually create the jobs that we're all going to live on. We have to create more, not more treasure. What is also important in this context is that society does not stop making demands and has a close follow-up. When the government introduced an activity obligation for social welfare recipients under 30 years of age, we saw in the media happy young people telling them that they got a push to get out of bed, get their own pay, get their own freedom – but that's SV against. When the government introduced the absence limit, it got tough criticism from SV. Now we see the principals and newspaper managers across the country who believe that the border works pretty much and has got the absence down by 40 pst., which is very good, which is what SV is against. When we see that these measures actually work, why is SV against them?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e790	It is healthy to hear from the Right and the representative about the government's policy when we see that the number of young people outside both education and working life is growing so dramatically – so we're talking about almost 100,000 outside. In particular, young men, especially skilled workers, who remain out of work are affected. We may be talking about a lost generation, and we've seen how this has evolved in other countries. What SV suggests is a youth investment through a guarantee that young people will get into education or work within three months – to which the municipalities actually get financial space – so that we ensure that they get into the activity that we fully agree is absolutely crucial, but that this government has not succeeded in achieving.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e797	When we listen to SV, they're seemingly busy with both families of children and the environment, but we're reading the budget, we're recording that there's just these areas they're punishing hard. When you look at what they do on the side of the car, SV increases the entry fee, which has been the most important factor in renewing the car park, by 4.5 billion. kr, which means that children’s families have to spend between NOK 30000 and NOK 60000 more to buy a more environmentally friendly car. And as if that wasn't enough, they also put on the fuel and diesel price with 50 cents and 1 cents, which would make it more expensive for people in the district to run children to kindergarten and leisure activities. What is the background to the fact that a party that expresses its commitment to both climate and families of children has such a hostile policy towards the car, which is necessary for families of children in the district?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e804	I'm very glad that I get that question from the representative Njåstad, because it gives me an opportunity to remind myself once again that we have proposed in our alternative budget a package of taxes that involves most people, the typical employee, the typical family, with normal pay, coming out in plus, despite the changes we make in the one-time fee. The changes we make in the one-off charge are just about twisting the tax burden from fossil cars, increasing the price of fossil cars and making it cheaper to buy zero-emission cars. What this government has done is to give the biggest fossil luxury car fees to Porsche Cayenne, and it's a little bit unclear how it should in any way help the ordinary children's family to become more climate friendly. They have also given the very biggest tax reliefs to the richest, while in our arrangement, most people come out in favour – despite the tax increases in the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e812	After all, the centre batch and SV have co-existed over a long period of time on measures to strengthen public health and reduce sugar consumption by using the charging system. At the same time, neither the SV nor the Central Party within its alternative budget has such a massive increase in the levy on sugar and chocolate and non-alcoholic beverages as is provided for in the budget agreement. When a majority hears the praise of the shopper on these products, is it that SV has now changed its view, or are they still concerned that there are other measures that should be implemented to protect public health and reduce sugar consumption?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e817	We have not gone in to increase the sugar levy, as the government parties and the support parties have done. The background for this is that we see that there are quite significant demarcation challenges there. I'm happy to take vitamins, and I eat my vitamins every day. I have started hamstering now before the fees go up. But I notice that sugar-containing cakes do not receive the same fee increase. I think it is unwise to introduce charges that are not investigated and that risk getting some challenges related to legitimacy. We need most people to understand the fees, see why we have them. Although the charging system can work well for public health, I believe that more research and more targeted charges are needed to achieve this, and not just introduce a charge as a balancing item in a budget negotiation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e824	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e829	I want to start by thanking Terje Breivik, who has done the job in the Financial Committee. ‘A well-functioning public sector is a foundation in the Norwegian welfare state. We have good public welfare systems, but we have to keep asking ourselves if we're doing the problems well enough. Without deliberate choice, we will have to finance a marked growth in the public sector. Decision-making can prove to be a particular challenge in an economy that has gone well for a long time.’ This could have been a quote from the Left Program, but it's a quote from the perspective message. Just the perspective message and the prospects that are being drawn out have been behind the Left's work on the state budget for 2018. The point is that the perspective statement shows that there are a number of new challenges we face in the coming years that need to be solved. Good and lasting well-being, not least for future generations, requires ability and willingness to convert. Sustainable economic and ecological policies do the same. An older population causes a smaller proportion of the population to work and pay taxes, and expenditure on pensions and health and care services to increase. Over the next 10–15 years, the scope of action in economic policy will be smaller and, in part, much less than the level that has been in the last 10–12 years. In addition, climate change and Norway’s international commitments to reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions will face major challenges. We need a completely necessary green transition, which will change the framework conditions for Norwegian business, both nationally and globally. Last, but not least, we have to dry out asking questions about whether we are doing public tasks well enough and efficiently enough. Not least, it is essential to look at welfare schemes that act directly counterproductively in relation to all the necessary tasks, such as getting more people to work and getting more people to work longer. The problem is that all opposition parties are pushing these problems forward by creating alternative budgets that result in significant, sustained increases in public expenditure financed by tax increases. One thing is tax increases that can have a negative impact on Norwegian businesses and jobs. After all, it is a real political choice. A completely different thing is to finance increased public expenditure with a large amount of massive increase in taxes. A sharp increase in a levy is less and would reduce demand and thus reduce government revenue in the long term, i.e. the policy leads to a sustained increase in expenditure and a long-term reduction in income. Not only are the problems being pushed in the wrong direction, but the problems and challenges are being exacerbated. The more we do today, the easier the conversions will be tomorrow. The government has – absolutely necessary – tightened up the growth in the use of oil money in its 2018 state budget proposal. In the view of the Left, this is too small to meet the other challenges of modernisation, inclusion, climate challenges and a sustainable welfare state we are now facing. The left agrees with Prime Minister Erna Solberg, who points to a sustainable welfare society as a main project in the future, but we are calling for several concrete proposals from government teams to realise this project. The challenges pointed out in the perspective communication highlight Left's proposals for the 2018 government budget. A number of measures and measures are proposed to succeed: A targeted effort to get more people to work, and in total, the Left proposes about 4.5 billion. in different technology transfer and innovation-related actions, actions for increased entrepreneurial activity and actions for increased activity. In addition, the proposed targeted tax relief for Norwegian business will be around 2 billion. In addition to the government's proposals, such as: implies a reduction of corporation tax from 24 p.m. to 23 pst. • a continuous digitisation of Norway with a focus on school and education in particular of more than 1 billion. kr; a green conversion of Norway with measures in the field of transport and business of 6 billion. kr, in addition to a significant green tax shift; a freedom reform for equal opportunities for all children, with a focus on kindergarten, school, SFO and a real redistribution for those with a minimum of 3.5 billion. kr; a tax system that stimulates work and environmentally friendly behaviour and that provides a tax relief for all with ordinary incomes of about €. NOK 3000; a leverage for integration; a more sustainable welfare country, both in the area of responsible money use, the efficiency of the public sector and several significant and necessary changes in public benefits, which are counterproductive in relation to targets for more people at work, and the need to raise the real retirement age in the future. We have to work longer. The left redistributes and prioritizes within a responsible financial framework without increasing taxes and taxes. In sum, this means a policy that does not leave challenges and problems to the next generation, but that actually dares to take the challenges seriously. I would like to admit that there are proposals for cuts and re-priorities in the Left's option, which are not popular, and which will hit someone, and which will have consequences for those who do not want to participate in the transition. But we cannot continue to pursue a policy that does not lead to change. Politics is doing what is right, at the right time, that makes us take responsibility for development, and do what we can and must, based on the knowledge we have. That's usually the opposite that happens. Let me take a few examples: the centre party has been to increase the fees on shower and candy, until someone actually suggested it. Then you're all of a sudden against it. The working party was to introduce an airline passenger fee, until someone actually suggested it. Then you were against. Several batches were very much to reduce the use of plastics, until some suggested using the charging system to do something about it. Then you became opposed. Fortunately, it has been a little dramatic budget harvest this year. The government’s proposal for a government budget received a reasonable amount of money, good reception. There were few major protests. In my view, it is not least because very much of the draft budget for the government is the follow-up to agreements between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party. It's due to a more sober use of money. Negotiations on the State budget between the same parties have also been avoided at record speed, without much drama, either inside or outside public space. The results of the agreement are good in my opinion and the view of the Left. There is a significant impact for the Left in terms of rail, teachers, higher education and research, poverty reduction, entrepreneurial and new industries, classical nature protection and volunteering to mention some of the main strengths the Left will be implemented with the decisions taken later this evening. The state budget, which today has a majority, brings Norway a step on the right track, but the speed and direction both could and should have been clearer, as is in the Left's proposal for a State budget. I'm finally taking up the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e862	The representative of Ola Elvestuen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e869	The government proposes to cut ordinary action spaces to help people work for 2,000, or 12 pst. It was also not prioritised in the agreement as known. The left appears in its alternative budget to be well-satisfied with the government’s level of labour market action – despite the fact that more people are further away from the labour market, that more immigrants will need labour market measures in the future, and that the lack of skills for many is the main barrier to entering the labour market. Lack of follow-up, labour market and skills-enhancing measures help many to get into a health track and be pushed away from work even further. Should this not increase the effort on labour market measures, not cut, in this budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e876	The left has been giving priority over several years, is that we must pursue a policy that brings more people into work, and that one has a business policy that adds to tax changes – the whole of the wealth tax change is precisely to facilitate more Norwegian businesses. Over the years we've been behind, we've taken the whole instrument away from making it easier for the smallest companies by having business angels who get tax relief, by having seed funds, we have lead seed funds, and we've supported under what's Innovation Norway's environmental technology schemes, what's in Enova, what's in Renewable AS – the whole tool tool to get a business development with more in work and a greener food development. It is linked to the tax proposals that we have made and to the aid schemes that have been put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e881	But then no more labour market measures, and it may not be surprising that the Left has not prioritised it in the negotiations. What is a little surprising, on the other hand, is that the party has not organized a breakthrough for other important issues in this budget. Holidays for those over 60 are not cut, sick pay and the AFP consists, and the trade union deduction is not halved, as left really wants. This means that workers and trade unions can breathe out easily. But can this not be a budgetary settlement in the field of working life with which the Left is particularly pleased?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e886	This is a budget that we are well pleased with on what are our main priorities, both in school and higher education, what is going on in climate and environment, and what is going on in poverty reduction. As I was also involved in my post, I think all parties must take on board that with the perspective message, with the expenditure increases we are looking forward to, and the tighter framework we have, we are also going to have to go into other discussions, that we must have reduced expenditure, like the ones that were pointed out, as we have suggested in our budget. However, we are well pleased with the draft budget and the consensus we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e891	The left said in the election campaign that it's in the school it starts, and that there's going to be a lot of digitalisation and ICT in the school, and there's a lot of positive going on when it comes to digital learning tools in the school right now. But an important commitment for everyone to participate in this is the digital infrastructure. The fact that there are far from all those who are connected to a digital high-speed network has been reported, and the Minister for Transport himself has confirmed that there is a need for a government contribution of about 3.7 billion. kr for at 90 pst. the digital high-speed network shall be accessible by the population. Now, when the Left does not participate in securing a greater commitment to broadband deployment to connect Norway as a whole on the digital network, my question is, When and how does the Elvesu see that everyone should have equivalent access to the digital high-speed network?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e898	Bets on increased broadband and broadband in districts have been a major priority both in our proposal and in what is agreed. So one of the winners is broadband. The increase is probably over 80 million. kr in the agreement that we now have. I can't say an exact year, but that this is a bet area, that you take an important step in that direction with broadband, and that this is one of the major changes in consensus, there's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e904	I know that I and the representative Elvesuen share the same concern about climate change and the same commitment to using the power to cut greenhouse gas emissions, and that's why I'm a little surprised that there's no greater concern in the Left over the pace of the phase-in of electric cars. Despite the fact that we can be proud of the electric car policy, the electric car still loses eight out of ten times in competition with the fossil car when a new car is to be purchased. It is therefore difficult to claim that we are on the way to achieving the goal that all new cars in 2025 should be zero-emission cars. It will not be better if, over the last few years, the one-off fee for cars running on petrol or diesel has been almost three times as high as for electric cars. So I simply wonder what is the Left's plan to bring the Advance Party and the Right to increase the car charges enough to achieve the 2025 target.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e911	Firstly, it was the Left that agreed with the Right and the Advance Party to set itself the goal of selling only a zero-emission vehicle in 2025. We have a more ambitious goal than any other country in the world. We also conduct a zero-emission vehicle policy that is more ambitious than any other country is close to achieving. And that's the results that count, and I guess the last month was about 20 pst. of the cars that were sold in Norway, pure electric cars. The most important thing we do is to maintain the exemptions that we have – which we also do in the consensus we have for next year – and to be able to keep track of the benefits long enough for us to achieve the 2025 target. The 2025 target is fixed, it is a commitment for all the four batches that are now involved in budgeting. If there's something I'm satisfied with for the Left, both in the previous period and in this period, it's the change of pace and the security you have for the transition in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e918	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e923	First, I would like to thank the Committee, and especially Nikolai Astrup, Helge André Njåstad and Terje Breivik, for their good cooperation in reaching the budgetary unity we did. When the state budget came, it was a good starting point for negotiations. There was a strong focus on growth and on creating new jobs. There was a lot of work on health and hospitals. It was the follow-up to the drug and psychiatry reforms, it was the follow-up to the national transport plan, and it was a great effort on the road and the railway. There was a commitment to security, both through defence and justice, and it was the follow-up to tax reform. There were also a number of cut and missing bets, as the Christian People's Party pointed out and gave clear notice. We needed a budget that was more family-friendly, and that was committed to more early schooling with more teachers, especially for the youngest students, a human valuation, a commitment to volunteering and the civil sector, a more social budget and a greener budget. Today, when we are going through the position of the Finance Committee of the State Budget for 2018, the Christian People's Party has had an important impact. A major reform is being carried out at school — the teacher’s norm. It is an ambitious and demanding reform, but it is absolutely necessary. In recent years, the cooperation parties have granted 1.3 billion. kr for more teachers. It's given 198 more teachers. It's too expensive teachers that we could still have the same bet. We demanded a teacher’s norm that will eventually end up with 15 students per teacher in the 1st to 4th grade. class and 20 pupils per teacher from 5 to 10. class. It is now to be introduced over two years, so that from the autumn of 2018 there will be 16 students in the 1st to 4th year. class and 21 pupils per teacher on average from 5 to 10. class. We know that early action is absolutely essential. Now we're just going to do it by getting more teachers. It will be a major reform which, hopefully, will also lead to a reduction in the need for additional education, because it addresses the challenges as early as possible. It is also important for the Christian People's Party that there are several teachers – adults – who can see each student. Being seen is fundamental to all of us. We also got a boost for the families. A flexible cash support is reintroduced, allowing more people to choose a gradual introduction into the kindergarten – have a few days at home and a few days in kindergarten. There is a great commitment to family protection, and there is a great effort to combat violence and abuse against children. There are several health sisters who will be able to detect things early. There are several midwives who can come in and perhaps reveal violence and assault before children are born. There's a stake in child protection and family protection, and there's a huge stake in the police. There are several police posts – now it is set at 131 million. kr to ensure that the 2018 coal will also be able to get a job. It is important in a district perspective, but also important in order to be able to investigate and follow up on the various issues identified. In addition, there is a strong commitment to investigators, lawyers and prosecutions, which should be able to follow up on issues relating to violence and child abuse. We also have a strong commitment to abortion – and sorting prevention measures. Double leave has been introduced in the first four months for twin parents. Free contraception is extended by one additional year. It's an increased one-time benefit. And I'm going to bring forward the perhaps greatest human dignity in this budget, which is an extension of the care scheme. It adopted an extension of the Stortinget, which meant that even more families with seriously ill children could receive care allowance, but the Christian People's Party also wanted one to have 100 pst. compensation after one year, and that there would be a possibility of care allowance also for those who wanted to take it out for children over 18 years of age with mental retardation. We were able to make that happen in this budget, and I would particularly like to thank my fellow Members for being able to do so. This is extremely important for those involved. Now we just need to remove the five-year rule, and then the arrangement is very good. We also got a boost for the civil sector. Building a sustainable welfare society is essential, and it means not only a strong state that is there for its citizens, but a civil sector that is involved in building society. It means a great deal of support to various non-governmental organisations that are doing a great job of helping children and young people in various activities, or helping those who fall outside and need extra help. A strong civil sector is extremely important. The commitment of people to help others is a quality sign in society, and it's the Christian People's Party proud of moving on. We are therefore pleased to increase the VAT compensation scheme by 75 million. kr in the conciliation, and we are also pleased that we are raising the national colleges and the Church, which also contribute to an enormously important work for society. This budget is also a commitment to the environment and climate. Different important environmental measures receive increased support. It's e.g. a strong commitment to flood and step-by-step measures to prevent it. The debate on the green shift is also about taxes, and environmentally friendly cars are being strengthened in this budget. We're on our way to achieving the important goals, which are absolutely necessary. One of the other clear messages the Christian People's Party had when the budget came was that we had to improve the social profile. That is why I am pleased that there are many measures here aimed at combating poverty, especially where there are children in low-income families. Small amounts to e.g. Blue Cross or Red Cross, whether there are different daily offers or there are holiday offers, means a lot to those who live in poverty. We all know that the most important thing is to work to get people out of work, but for those who have not been able to get into work, or are not going to do it, the various measures to create better quality of life are enormously important. We are also pleased that we have been corrected – or removed – the proposed cut in the daily allowance. We are involved in facilitating society's organization so that it can be the best, or the simplest, and pay off as much as possible to get into work. It meant that both we and many experts would only hit people who had bad finances, and who would rather spend time figuring out how to get different social benefits, instead of finding a job. We are also pleased that we increase the amount set to get free core time, free kindergarten – up to NOK 533 000. It also means a lot to the families with poor finances. A state budget for 2018 in Norway is more than Norway. For the Christian People's Party it is always essential to have an international perspective. That's why we're glad we have 1 pst. of gross national income in aid to the world's poorest, but we are also pleased with the device. There has been a strong commitment to education, health and industrial development, which is crucial for the long-term work of working people out of poverty. In the budget agreement, we are even more – 400 million. kr extra to Africa, where we know that the poorest live. It has also been a strengthening of civil society, which is a very important contribution, an important channel for providing assistance. Finally, I want to talk about taxes on work and use. For the Christian People's Party, there is one thing that has two sides. That is why we initially wanted – and in our alternative budget – to have a legislative committee that could address those challenges. For this, important income for municipalities is, and it is also important in a local democracy context to have local tax laws, property taxes, works and uses. At the same time, many feedback from business has been received, which has found it to be demanding and unpredictable and has therefore wanted to be cleaned up. Unfortunately, we were unable to obtain a legal selection, which was the primary position of the Christian People's Party, but through the agreement we managed to continue to tax power lines, and there is still tax on hydropower and wind power, and that means that about half of the loss the municipalities would have, is still possible to tax. In addition, a compensation scheme is in place that can help to secure the well-being of local authorities. The transitional regime will be seven years, with full compensation for the different municipalities affected. That's why I think we can do both of these things in a good way through this conciliation. The Christian People's Party is well pleased with the agreement, although through the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party we would like to have a more powerful bet in different fields. But with the starting point we have, and with the size we have, we're happy with the equation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e959	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e964	The Christian People's Party and the Left have had some of the worst cuts reversed to the Right and the Advance Party – they should. But is the Christian People's Party really satisfied with that? Take, for example: broadband, where the government – completely unintelligible – proposed to cut broadband allocations, which in the 2017 state budget amounted to 140 million. NOK 70 million. kr in 2018, i.e. a halving of broadband deployment – at a time when everyone is talking about investing in digitalisation and digital infrastructure. The Christian People's Party and the Left get in again 80 million. kr, and we're about on the spot resting. So when Elvesuen says there's a broadband bet, that's just a reversal of the government's cut and getting it back up at the current level. The working party says we're going to spend 500 million. kr in the year of broadband expansion, so that everyone will now have broadband. My question to the Christian People's Party is, because I also believe the Christian People's Party really thinks we should use more on broadband: Is the Christian People's Party happy just to correct the cuts from the Right and the Advance Party in the broadband bet?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e971	Thank you for the question. When we went into the negotiations, we were very clear that in the various matters we were not satisfied with just correcting the cut – we should have a clear commitment to the groups we wanted to help. In the case of broadband, it is approximately at this level in the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party. This is a level that lies, as far as I remember, well above the cut to the red-greens in the previous period. But it's, as Myrli's representative says, a great need for broadband expansion. The ministry was clear that it can also stimulate private actors to expand, and in combination with the public I hope that we will get a good deal on the way. But this is probably a field that we have to raise together even more in the next few years, and I really hope that, when the Stortinge gets a new budget next harvest, it doesn't involve cutting in a field as important as broadband.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e980	There's something a little bit ritual about these budget rounds. One of the fixed parts is that the Christian People's Party, together with the Cooperation Party, will take a nourishment. Now it's part of the food industry that's going to get dizzy. It's interesting to see that the Christian People's Party is involved in making juice much more expensive, while alcoholic drinks hardly get more expensive. It's also interesting to see that it's a celebration of 100 million. kr for flood and ski protection, is 100 million. kr that the government has cut first. It's worth 80 million. kr to broadband. Yes, but take away a cut of 70 million. kr, it is a careful bet. It was a joy to hear that a person has scared organizations such as 4H. The fasitator after these years is that 4H is clearly getting worse terms. The Christian People's Party has gone from being a 'constructive opposition' to being 'opposition'. After following this cottage, I have one question for the representative Robstad: What is the political project of the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e989	I think that, both through the presentation of the budget – all these ritual rounds of media in front of every negotiation meeting – and today I have been very clear on what is the Christian People's Party's project. We want a society where there is room for diversity, where we take care of each one. Human dignity is a key to something that the Christian People's Party always promises, and therefore we are extremely proud of what we do in the care system or abortion and sorting prevention measures. For the Christian People's Party, it is always important to bet on early efforts, more freedom of choice and flexibility for families, which we know lay the foundation. Securing families, including in the field of violence and abuse, is extremely important for building safe children. We have a strong commitment to early school work, which I'm extremely proud that we're getting, because that means that more teachers are going to see the youngest students. So it's also our view of society, that it's more than the state. That is why the civil sector is important for the Christian People's Party, and we have been able to strengthen it – not only this year, but also the last few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e996	I was one of those who cheered unrelentingly when the Christian People's Party got through the teaching norm in the budgetary negotiations with the government parties. But I have to say that I choked the coffee the next day, when it turned out that the price of the teaching norm was that the Christian People's Party had given up the matters of retrospective power for the teachers, i.e. that 33 000 teachers are to be separated, and the 4th requirement in math. So the Christian People's Party's policy is to separate teachers and have empty study places in the teacher's study at a time when there may never have been any more unskilled in Norwegian school. My question to Ropstad is then: How are we going to be able to introduce the teaching standard if not the places of study are filled, and when competent teachers are separated?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1003	Thank you for the question, and not least thanks for the honor of the teacher's norm. We've been together to introduce the teaching norm at school, and it greatly appreciates the Christian People's Party. In terms of skills requirements, this is something that the Christian People's Party is still opposed to. In order to implement the norm, we were also willing to sign on to the requirements of competence. But I think the representative here also points to the central point, that if we are to succeed with the norm, we need more teachers. That is why we were also clear that we should work with a recruitment strategy. I think that in that work there may be a need to adjust to the requirements, and there will be a Christian People's Party to work with, along with the government parties and the Left, to succeed in having what we're all engaged in – more teachers, more competent teachers and an opportunity to bet on early efforts, which is the key to success with the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1011	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1016	My best moments are when I know that I live in the house of gratitude. This house, this hall, arouses such gratitude in me that I can stand here today – grown up in prosperous Norway, such a well-functioning democracy – along with 168 others who choose to give years of their lives to improve our society as far as we can. It gives me a sense of gratitude as I now keep posts here for the first time. As a result of this profound gratitude, there is also an exposure as a direct response. Gratitude stirs up a desire to contribute back, to shape and create. This, of course, brings me to the State budget – what society does the budget really contribute to creating? In the election campaign we heard from the government party on the right that Norway was going to be innovative, smarter and greener. We heard Prime Minister Solberg make several such contributions, and every time it came in trembling mountain language: ‘innovative, smart and green’, and sometimes ‘green, smart and innovative’. And again: ‘The future of work and business must be green, smart and innovative’. But do such words have any meaning for action, for the state budget? Is it possible to see a conversion to green, smart and innovative – not only in the flood of speech, but also in the flood of money? I have just set aside my role as a researcher and business founder, and as a newly-baked politician, I am concerned about a growing political disdain. I myself have known the ambivalence of entering into this new role, because much of the political prejudice has a substantial cause and bottom in that politicians constantly use words and promises things that then in practice turn out to mean nothing – or the opposite. That is why I am here today in gratitude, and at the same time with a concern, because we are eroding the language and helping to empty the terms out of meaning. So in order to avoid hollowing out the concepts, we still have to go back and reflect on what the words mean. What do the words ‘smart’, ‘green’ and ‘green shift’ really mean? When do we know it's green enough? Fortunately, there are quite objective authoritative and international responses to this. So let me give character to Norway's development. I'm not a sensor here, I'm just transmitting grades from external sensors. ‘Smart’: A reasonable interpretation of ‘smart’ is that it has a high score in the DESI study, the Digital Economy and Society Index from The World Economic Forum and the EU. Here Norway is now coming out as country number two among the countries of Europe. So Norway is and will be leading if we mean rapid digitisation by ‘smart’. We congratulate Solberg and the government for contributing to this – moving Norway further into management internationally to smart digitisation. So what about "innovative"? The standard objective here is the Global Innovation Index, operated by INSEAD and the World Patent Organisation, WIPO and others. It shows that in 2017, Norway is in its 19th place globally, but at a falling trend compared to when the government began, and Norway is consistently worse than our Nordic neighbours. Starting-up analysts in Argentina find that Norway is consistently at the bottom of the Nordic region in terms of venture investment, i.e. investment in innovative early-growth enterprises. So there are still useful characters on 'innovative' globally, but evolution goes wrong with those we like to compare with. Nor will it help with a few million extras for Siva, IFU and business-oriented research – which left and won the negotiations. And what about green enough? Each year, the OECD publishes an overview of green growth indicators. Here Denmark, Sweden and Finland are at the peak, while Norway is well below the OECD average on the main indicator, annual carbon productivity. There we are on about 2 pst. annual. So Norway is well below the level recommended by the New Climate Economy Report, at least 5 pst. per year. So the exam office then reports an A on ‘smart’, a C minus on ‘innovative’ and an F — or ‘green’. Compared to our neighboring countries, we are less innovative and quite gray. This state budget means that the word ‘green’ is hollowed out and loses its meaning when it comes from the government’s mouth — it’s greenwash. So how can the government correct this in its next state budget? Well, we have 20-30 proposals in the Financial Committee's position that we address to voting. If these are introduced, taken from the green alternative state budget, the next OECD character in green growth, when it is available, is likely to be much better and the concept of ‘green’ may have a fiscal meaning again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1039	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1044	The future depends on our being able to achieve a good balance between growth and protection. We know, for example. that the future Velferds-Norway depends on sustainable growth — also in the north, where we have industries with special advantage. Examples are seafood and travel. As far as travel is concerned, we know that North Norway has a significantly higher growth than the rest of the country. My home municipality, Tromsø, has had a growth of over 700 pst in the last ten years. We had a report about a family from Sydney who was visiting to see the northern lights. We had a round about this in the election campaign, where it was said that maybe you shouldn't have so many tourists from far away. You should have several short-distance tourists, at least it came from the Greens/Greens/EFA. So my question to the representative is, what industries do you see as facilitating growth, and how to increase business growth for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1053	Thank you for the question. We are for the construction of a green travel life. This can easily be calculated by looking at the value creation in relation to resource use. If the value can be increased by more than 5 pst. relative to emissions, it becomes a green travel life. This makes it possible to design travel policies so that both a person earns money and at the same time has an environmental benefit. Travel life, in particular, has the enormous advantage that it is labour-intensive. The great value creation in our society is not capital return; it is the 2.5 to 2.8 million people who go to work every day. I think tourism and the tourism industry are just an opportunity for Norway to show itself in terms of increased value creation, using cultural and local resources. And I think just the high-ranking tourism that the special locations – that North Norway and Tromsø – can offer – are amazing when it comes to achieving just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1060	When the Green Party presented its alternative state budget, Stoknes said to NTB: ‘The opponents of opinion managed to park us by saying that we are fanatical about the climate and the environment to the distortion of solidarity. It is wrong, it has been wrong and it is going to be wrong." Perhaps Stoknes was thinking about the solidarity of the Environmental Party of Greens at the local level in Oslo, which primarily went to the rich and social summits? Because in their alternative state budget, there is not much solidarity to see. There, the Green Party has proposed a total of 25 billion to cover the fare on aircraft, petrol and diesel, and the taxation of cars. kr. This will hit the districts and businesses in the districts hardest. Can the representative of the Green Party explain to us in the Chamber and the Norwegian people where solidarity lies in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1070	With joy! Only until the e-bike support, which has been an innovation success: when a new product in a market triggers an interest, especially among high-status people, it spreads much faster through social norms. Enhancing the demand for electric bicycles by stimulating it with high-profile media-profile measures has proved to be a daunting success. Then the electric cycles become cheaper and cheaper as more people are sold. With regard to the fare and the other charges: this is part of a green tax change where we do a lot of cuts in the fees, for example. on the employer’s side. The employer's fee has been cut progressively, making it much cheaper to hire people. We also have a net tax relief on personal income in our alternative state budget. So we increase taxes on what is environmentally harmful, and reduce taxes and taxes on what helps especially low-income families. It's the solidarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1077	The Green Party is a party for the elite and for those of us with a thick wallet, not for most people. The alternative state budget of the Greens is an excellent proof of this. The party wants to increase various fees for most people by about 45 billion. kr – a crazy high amount: 15 br. Extra charge for the drivers, 10 billion. kr extra for air passengers, 1 billion. kr in meat tax and the removal of tax-free, to mention something. All are fees that affect people more or less the most. This is not part of a green tax shift; this is a tax revolution. My question to the Environment Party's representative is basically: Does he think it is those of us with high incomes, a relatively safe job and a nice house that is hit by higher taxes, or does he think it is the people who are struggling – students, minimum pensioners and people outside the labour market – who notice these violent tax increases the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1084	Under the Progress Party and the Right Government, the number of poor people is increasing in Norway. The Nav study shows that the number has increased from 7.5 pst. For more than 9.3 pst. Those responsible for unsolidarian economic policies are, in particular, the Progress Party, which cuts the fees to the richest and raises them, while trying to talk to the opposite. We're going in for an increased minimum pension. We give a huge boost to mental health. We cut the employer's fee. We are introducing more progressive personal tax. That means it'll be cheaper for people. If a normal low-income family shifts its consumption to something greener on some things, for example: So if you eat a little bit less meat, it's going to go out with our government budget for $100,000 more than with the government budget. Furthermore, we're going to work out a civil salary, which will provide a completely different kind of security. We're going for free legal aid. We go for shorter working hours and free kindergarten for low-income families. [[President clubs]] [[The President cut off]] There is a wide range of solidarity measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1091	The number is out. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1098	The government launched proposals for budget 2018 as a budget for economic growth, more in jobs and a sustainable welfare society. Over the four years of government by power, we've seen fine little to this. Increasing differences, systematic deterioration in the rights of workers and high unemployment are what characterises the policy of the dark blue government. But the problem goes further back in time. The Bondevik II government weakened the community by 30 billion tax cuts. kr from 2001 to 2005. In the next eight years, the red-green government pressed the pause button in. They kept the level of taxation unchanged from 2004 throughout the period until 2013. Then came a dark blue government and weakened the community with new tax cuts, of over 20 billion. kr. And next year they cut even more. This is the pattern. When citizens have the power, they pursue a targeted policy of weakening the community and increasing differences. When red-green parties gain power, they act as a break before a new bourgeois government continues the tax cuts. If we are to combat the differences and ensure the financing of the Community's well-being in the future, the left-hand side must stop acting as a break between civil governments. That job has now been taken up by Red. Several have asked me what Red can actually do with one representative at Stortinget, at the same time with a bourgeois government. First of all, I would like to say that the government is not unique in Norway. The fight for how much it gets done is not lost, it is going on, and Red gives it battle for every meter, now also on the Stortinget. Secondly, in addition to the defence fight against civil policy, we must create offensive, radical policies, get fewer differences, strengthen well-being and fight social dumping and privatisation. We have flashed out 100 places we start at this work, in our proposals to the state budget for 2018. Firstly, strengthening well-being. The government says that the municipalities have never had as good advice as they have now, but in the communities around the country, people don't recognize themselves in that story. The Norwegian State is in search, but in many municipalities they have poor advice, debt is high and welfare services are under pressure – beyond the limits of what is right. Just look at how they have to run from user to user in the home, how it's spinned and saved in municipal child protection, or how many students have their everyday lives in worn-out school buildings. Increased income for municipalities is a main priority for Red. For us, it is important that the value creation that takes place around the country also falls to people in the community around the country. So we're proposing to increase the transfers to the municipalities by 12 billion. kr, which is far more than any other party on Stortinget. Secondly, we are fighting poverty. Too many children grow up in poor families, and too many minor pensioners live below the poverty line. Red proposes a 4-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. against poverty by increasing the amount of child benefit, by increasing the lump-sum benefit at birth and adoption, by reintroducing the child allowance into the disability pension, and not least by increasing the minimum pension for both single residents and for married and Thirdly, get more people to work. We are increasing the framework for employment measures, we are increasing the allocation of flood and racial protection, and we are continuing the action packages against unemployment, which are important in municipalities around the country. Where do we take the money from? The answer to that is through a fairer tax policy. We keep the tax unchanged for those who earn less than NOK 600 000 a year, and increase it for those who earn more than that, not least for those who earn more than NOK 850,000 a year. Our hundreds of suggestions are just a start. In the future, Red will continue to work to create an offensive, radical policy for smaller differences, to strengthen well-being and to combat social dumping and privatisation. With this I take up the Red's hundred proposals for the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1122	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1129	For the Workers' Party, education is among the most important areas of activity. That is why we have prioritised quality in kindergarten, early work, more teachers, the professions, the fight against bullying, and more specialised school places and places of study far higher than the government in our alternative budget. It is surprising to see that education is not even included in Red's top ten list of key issues. Does this mean that the representative is satisfied with the government's budget, or does he want a different policy? What is Red's main educational effort?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1136	Our hundreds of proposals include: a massive investment in the local economy. It is the municipalities that pay for primary school and the counties pay for secondary school. They are heavily underfunded, we know that. We grant far more than the Workers' Party to ensure that those who run the schools, and pay for the schools, can afford both to upgrade buildings and build new school buildings, and also to ensure a good quality of teaching. It's our most important measure on the education side. In addition, we see that a lot of people fall off, especially in the professional field. We believe that, among other things: This is because many people see that there is no future in many craft trades because of social dumping, which is spreading. So our actions to strengthen ecocrime, strengthen labour supervision and combat social dumping are also essential to ensure that professionals, construction professionals, will have a profession to go to in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1143	The representative, Moxnes’ own principal programme, says: ‘Capitalism has survived itself. Now it's urgent to get rid of it." And on the other hand, «The working class may not govern within the limits of capitalism and private property and on the basis of the civil state apparatus.» From that point of view, it is a little surprising, as today we are discussing a state budget within the framework of capitalism, underpinning property rights and created by the bourgeois state apparatus, that the representative Moxnes chooses to promote a hundred amendments to this state budget, among other things. liquidating the 350-kroner limit for online commerce and reducing the gross salary to 749 000 kroner. Why is not one of the hundreds of proposals to abolish capitalism as a system? Or has the party Red just become a break between bourgeois governments?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1160	We do not believe that one representative of the Storting itself creates a revolution. When the revolution comes, Asheim will also notice it, I am absolutely sure of that! [[Laughter]] But we don't start one place, we start one hundred places in our budget proposals. So we socialists know that having labour available is the most important capital you can have. We have had one and a half positions since we got into Stortinget. From the New Year we have a full staff available, so for next year's budget, 2019, Asheim will probably also see that there are even more and even better proposals. But it is clear that socialism cannot be adopted in a parliament; it must be created by the people. So in any case, it won't happen by decision in the Storting, of course it will happen in a different way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1169	I also start to wonder if Red looks at himself as a break, all the time the bar is in temporary and not in fixed settings. That's what I saw on the intranet of Stortinget. But my question shouldn't go on that, it's going to go on one of the first issues Moxnes raised when he was elected, just 100 pst. taxes on all income in excess of 1,5 million. kr. I was very excited to see it again in the first budget proposal, but I noticed that a few months inside this house has caused Moxnes and Red to go away from one of the most important promises from before. So I'm wondering what's the background because it's no longer a good idea to tax all income over 1.5 million. NOK 100 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1176	Here I cannot reassure the Progress Party, because this is not something I have invented. The Rødt national meeting adopted a change in fiscal policy in ours. We went over to a slightly different model because it is more appropriate to collect money from the rich than to have total taxes on everything over $1.5 million – so we have a different tax bill now. The surprising thing is how much money we get into the community by relatively moderate increases in income tax for those who have over 1.2 million. kr in annual income. It's about nearly 200,000 people who have it, and by taxing those revenues a little more fairly, we can afford to secure the community economy, we can afford to start phase-in of free dentistry, we can afford action against unemployment – we can afford a lot that will strengthen well-being through a rather moderate increase only in income taxes. Then we'll take the rest of the tax treatment next year. Then it comes even more into the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1183	Red will increase the contribution to broadband, and that's good. Red also believes that drastic action must be taken in the transport sector, including: the need to facilitate climate-friendly travel in order to reduce emissions. That's good, too. But I miss an understanding of how different this country is. Red says that the road construction proposed by the government in the state budget is irresponsible and proposes to cut the appropriations. The money is redistributed to railways, bicycle and pedestrian routes. The Central Party has proposed 1 billion in its alternative budget. for upgrading county roads. This is absolutely necessary for the transport chain, which says there is a missing 1.5 to 2 billion. kr to seal the maintenance seat draw. Business life in the district, including: fisheries, which is our growth industry no. one points to poor road standards as a main problem for them. Will Red offer collective offerings to fish exporters and the people along our long-range coast, or have they simply forgotten what this country looks like?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1192	What we are proposing is to continue road appropriations at the 2017 level. So we are moving towards the sharp increase in the budgets of the government for 2018. We're continuing the 2017 level. Then we propose in our proposals to increase the allocations to collectives by 2 billion. kr and the appropriations for maintenance on railway lines of SEK 1,8 billion. kr. Here's a lot of catching up. Here the government has chosen to spend the money to start a reform that will suck companies from China and Germany into the state register instead of making sure to spend the money on refurbishing the infrastructure on the railway. We believe it is important to develop new roads in line with what has been the level until 2017, and not least to bet on the railway, where there are major shortcomings today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1201	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1206	Let me first say that the negotiations on next year's state budget between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have been constructive. Let me take this opportunity to thank all those who have stood by and contributed to this consensus. The government presented in October a budget for economic growth, more in jobs and a sustainable welfare society. The budget adopted today by the Storket continues the government's priorities of action that makes us better equipped to meet the challenges that we know will come in the future. The government has managed Norway safely over a demanding period of time. We've been dealing with the biggest migration crisis since World War II, and we've been exposed to the most severe oil price drop in 30 years. Having a job to go to is important to all of us. It is important for individuals, and it is important for Norway. That's why there's also reason to rejoice that the most difficult period now is behind us. The government's policy has worked. Growth in the Norwegian economy is on the rise, unemployment is falling, and more jobs are created. The economic downturn following the oil price drop three years ago is now over. More people get jobs. Employment is increasing, and the proportion of the population in employment has stopped falling. Also in the South and West, where the setback hit hardest, the decline is turning to new growth and optimism. We're going to enjoy that. Our most important task now is to make sure that optimism persists, that investment comes, that people feel safe, because they have a job to do, and because they look forward to their own economic future. We are facing better economic times, and the phase-in of oil money over the state budget needs to be adapted. Then we avoid putting pressure on the dollar rate and undermining the positive development in business. The government is therefore proposing neutral fiscal policies in 2018. The use of oil revenue from the State budget is estimated at less than 3 pst. by the capital of the State pension fund abroad. Since the action rule was introduced, strong growth in fund capital has allowed for each existing government to significantly increase the use of oil revenues. Now we're going into a new time. Firstly, lower petroleum prices generate less revenue for the country. Secondly, the estimate of expected real returns has been adjusted down from 4 pst. to 3 pst. A total increase has joined this change. The government takes this new reality seriously. The 2018 budget implies a sustainable fiscal policy, which supports the transition and facilitates the continuation of positive developments in the Norwegian economy. In the coming years, the petroleum industry will contribute less to the growth of the Norwegian economy than we have been used to. That's why we need to facilitate new growth in other industries. Improving competitiveness makes an important contribution to the transformations the Norwegian economy needs to make, but it is also important how we spend the money on the state budget. We've been through a severe fall in oil prices. Many have lost their jobs, and many private companies have been through tough and big changes. We can't have a situation where the state doesn't change. To meet the challenges, priority needs to be given to measures that can increase the growth capacity of the economy, and we need to spend money in the public sector smarter. This government has proposed it in all its budgets. To get better services and more out of public sector resources, we are implementing reforms in the municipal, police, rail and higher education sectors. These reforms strengthen the competitiveness of business, provide better adapted public services and will be able to release funds from the State budget that we can use to carry out important societal tasks. There is still room to work better and find new, good solutions in the public sector. We have to keep asking ourselves whether the arrangements we have today in different areas are out of date, or whether we can do things in another way, as we do, among other things. with the company Nye Veier AS. New Weier AS will think again in the way of building a road. The goal is to get more for each of the heads we use. It will benefit people on the road, and it can mean great savings for society. In the perspective communication, we showed that Norway is facing significant challenges in financing our welfare systems in the future. When the challenges get bigger and the economic space gets smaller, we have a big responsibility to think new. Therefore, we will continue to modernise Norway. Public sector reform needs to continue, and we need to work specifically to simplify everyday life for most people and for business. While implementing reforms and streamlining, we give priority to growth-enhancing tax relief and transport, research and education. We will continue to do so in the 2018 budget. By continuing to invest in transport, research and education, we want to reduce the cost of transport to business, to strengthen innovation and to increase the skills of the population. In this way, we improve the basis of tomorrow's industries. At the same time, government's commitment to health, social security networks, municipalities, defence and justice and preparedness continue. Lower taxes are about a family retaining more of their monthly income and keeping more of their profits to invest in new jobs. In the budget, the Stortinget adopts today, the main features of the government's tax proposals are fixed. In line with Storting’s agreement on tax reform, income tax is reduced from 24 p.m. until 23 p.m., and the valuation discount in the property tax is increased from 10 p.m. until 20 pst. It gives stronger incentives to save, invest and work. The new option taxation scheme is increased from NOK 30 000 to NOK 500000. It can make it easier for small, newly established companies to recruit and keep skilled employees. The property tax on machinery and equipment is phased out. Lower property taxes increase the profitability of enterprises and contribute to investments and jobs. This tax is also felt to be unforeseeable by many enterprises and is a barrier to start-ups and a disadvantage for established enterprises. The budgetary agreement maintains, with some amendments, the government's proposal to remove this tax. The so-called sample masts and power grids continue to pay property taxes, and the Storting also asks the Government to ensure that almost full compensation is given to municipalities that receive reduced existing income as a result of the changes. In 2018, electric cars are exempted from the charges on road insurance and re-registration, as proposed by the government. It is clear from the budgetary agreement that electric company cars keep 40 pst. a discount on the corporate car tax and no one-off charge is imposed on electric cars. The conversion of the one-off eco-tax will be reinforced in 2018 by increasing the CO 2 component and further reducing the weight component. The budget adopted today by the Stortinget helps to create tomorrow's jobs by focusing on knowledge, research and innovation. We build more road, we build more track. We're betting on health care and welfare in the municipalities. We cut waiting times, expand offers and increase quality. We give priority to the fight against child poverty, and we strengthen child protection. Work at early school is being reinforced. We invest in the police and the defence for increased security in everyday life and better preparedness in an uncertain time. We reduce taxes on people and businesses in order to make it pay to create, invest and work in Norway. The budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left means that there will be relief in 2018. In this way, the government is strengthening the welfare of today and securing Norway for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1254	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1259	No finance minist has ever had as much oil money at his disposal as Siv Jensen, and for reasons of weak economic growth and low employment growth during her time, the real use of money has almost doubled. We've become more oil dependent than ever. Now, however, the party is over. On page 52 of the national budget, the so-called action space in the years ahead is described: 18 billion. In the case of increased revenue every year from taxes and levies and oil money use, expenditure is tied up to popular and demographic costs — and if one takes up the NTP and defence plan in addition, all money has been spent. With this picture, the Progress Party has gone to the 50-billion-dollar election. kr in tax cuts. Where are these tax cuts to be taken? What welfare arrangements are to be cut down in order to accommodate a room of action that, according to her own document, on page 52, is equal to zero?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1264	Firstly, I have not registered that the Workers' Party has opposed the oil money usage that the government has been using over the last few years. The difference is marginal and hardly noticeable, so if the Workers' Party's criticism were to stand, the Workers' Party would have had to cut into quite a few of these billions that they believe the government should not use. I have not registered that the Workers' Party does. Then the Progress Party hasn't fixed 50 billion. kr in tax cuts. But it is quite rightly observed that the Progress Party wants to continue to reduce taxes and taxes in the years to come. That ambition is firm, and it stands in stark contrast to the Workers' Party's promises to tighten up taxes. Now it's a little bit unclear to me how much the Workers' Party will increase taxes over the next few years, all the time they're proposing in their alternative budget just next year to increase taxes by over 8 billion. kr. I think it's crazy politics. I believe we are about to have competitive taxes in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1271	In a society, it is important to see the individual human being and to facilitate the different needs of individuals. For a long time, the party has fought with beaks and claws against the demand of over 30,000 pensioners to get their pension slips on paper. In this room last week, the spokesperson of the Progress Party, the representative Wiborg, used time to urge the Christian People's Party to draw its proposal that a person should have the pension slip on paper. State Council Hauglie answered direct questions that it was completely impossible to confirm that the government would follow up on the revised. Furthermore, the Council of State said that ‘the proposal that is now adopted does not have money with it, and it will therefore be difficult to follow up’. Can the Minister of Finance guarantee that all pension recipients who wish to do so will receive the pension slip in the post from 1 July 2018, in line with what the majority of Stortinget has asked the government to provide?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1278	Now it is the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs who is responsible for following up that decision from the Storting, but I am absolutely sure that, like the rest of the government, she will follow up the decisions taken by the Stortinget at all times. That being said, I fully agree with the first sentence of the representative, Gülsvik, that it is important to see the individual human being in a society. Seeing individuals has an important value, and then it's about facilitating through a variety of tools that enable individuals to live free and independent lives. This is why it is important for this government, for example. reducing the overall tax and tax burden, because it is about being able to make better choices in your own economy. It contrasts with the Central Party's budget options, where it is proposed to increase taxes by several billion dollars in total. This is about, for example: to pursue a good rural policy by expanding infrastructure and by providing a competitive framework for business so that good opportunities can be built regardless of where you live in the country. That is what this government has done, and that is why it is doing well throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1285	On page 27 of the proposal for taxes and charges, we can read that about 12 pst. taxes are increased by taxpayers and the proportion of persons receiving tax amplifying is highest in the highest income groups. But I wonder if there's not a little rewriting of the facts, because it's obvious that the wealth tax code is larger than the tax increases, and that those with the largest income and wealth still get a lot of tax relief. In sum, after four years with this government, they're left with the biggest tax reliefs. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1290	The distribution profile of the government's tax regime is presented in several places in the budget papers, and shows that the vast majority of people are coming out well with the structure set up by the government. It is absolutely right that, in line with the tax settlement concluded by many parties here in Stortinget, we have followed up, among other things. by making changes in the valuation discount, which is about working capital. It's important. It's about having a competitive business where we stop discriminating about being a Norwegian owner in Norway and being a foreign owner in Norway. I understand that it may not be important for SV, but it is important for the government, because it is about facilitating growth and value creation across the country. We know from experience that Norwegian ownership has meant a lot around many parts of the country, perhaps especially in times of stress.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1295	Many parents of seriously ill children make an amazing effort to make the life of their children the best possible. What we've been concerned about is that the state should also be involved in creating security and predictability for those families. That is why we are very pleased with the budget agreement, where two of three important points for the Christian People's Party are being followed up. The first concerns mentally retarded people over 18 years of age, for whom there are exceptions in order to receive care allowance. The second is that one gets 100 pst. compensation for previous salaries throughout the five-year period instead of 66 pst. after one year. We're very pleased with that. The last point that makes it complete is that one cutter has the five-year rule you have today, so that one loses the opportunity to care after five years. Does the Minister of Finance agree with the intention of the Christian People's Party to further strengthen the care arrangements, or will she fight against such a change?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1302	Let me first say that I think it is good that the Christian People's Party is so pleased with the budgetary unity established in the Stortinget. That's good. We should do much more of that in the time to come – to agree with the Christian People's Party on major and important questions for Norway in the years ahead. In the case of the care scheme, there has been a theme in many different contexts. The government has shown that this has been a system that is important to us – to set it up in a broader way, and to facilitate that more parents who have seriously ill children have the opportunity to participate in the system – and I feel that there has been little disagreement about it. It's strange that no one did anything to it until this government actually suggested it. That the Christian People's Party has wanted to strengthen this arrangement, we have perceived. There's also an agreement to do, and the government is going to follow up the consensus that underlies the four parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1309	We in the Greens are disappointed that the government does not provide enough tax relief – in important green areas. Our proposal is that we cut VAT on fruit and vegetables, we cut taxes on repairs, and we cut taxes on public transport. Why is it the Greens that particularly cut employers’fees to create more jobs that provide tax deductions on an increase of nearly 0.5 billion. Do you really want to delete this item? Why is it the Greens that have to stand on the barricades to introduce a minimum deduction of the entrepreneurial income that makes everyday life easier for entrepreneurs, etc.? We had hoped to find together with the government parties such a real green tax change. So my question is, why will the Minister of Finance and the Government no longer fight for lower taxes on the goods that we all want more of, balanced against taxes on scientifically documented environmentally harmful consumption, of which we want less?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1316	Through many budget agreements concluded between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, the green tax shift has been in focus. We've been doing it systematically, in a way that now produces results. We see it, for example. on the emissions from passenger cars. Through the shifts we have done in that area, we are now getting results through the replacement of the car fleet, and emissions are going down – just because we make it more reasonable for people to make good choices. To put it another way, I think that the Green Party should be a little careful about boasting of the tax profile in its budget. You have to look at the whole, and the bill you would have been serving from the Green Party, given that their budget had been adopted, I think very many would have taken it for granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1324	Siv Jensen increases the fee, overnight, by over 80 pst. on sugar and chocolate. I believe that Anders Lange is not just sprinkling, but is rotating wildly in his grave when his party has become the big fee shock party. The serious thing here is that it's about jobs around the country. This is about Borg in Sarpsborg, Berentsens Bregghus in Egersund, Brynild in Fredrikstad, Oskar Sylte in Molde, Mack in Tromsø, Trondheim with Nidar, Aass in Drammen, Hansa in Bergen and Freia here in Oslo. Does the Minister of Finance see that this increase in fees can lead to both a massive increase in border trade in Sweden and, in particular, an increase in VAT-free online trade, which is free of charge up to DKK 350 per shipment, at the expense of the Norwegian food industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1337	Firstly, the Storting chooses to balance the budget by increasing that levy. So it is not, in principle, a proposal that this government has put forward. But the consensus is entirely within the framework of what is acceptable, especially because the tax package must be seen in its entirety. I have to say that there is one party and one representative who has no credibility in terms of tax reduction, it is Red. Red is the choice to significantly increase taxes. You have to look at the whole picture, and this government has been committed to strengthening the framework conditions for Norwegian business in all its budgets. That's why we've done something about the corporate tax, so we've done something about the property tax, so now we're doing something about the machine tax. The sum of it strengthens the framework conditions for Norwegian business and, of course, everything else we do in terms of infrastructure improvements, which I do not experience either is one of the proposals for Red, or the focus on knowledge, on innovation and research and on good business environment in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1344	The next and last replicator is Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1349	President. — The next item is the report (Doc. It is not that the Workers' Party has given its lines to others, it should be three to us by size. We like to give up one, but two lines are to be given to the Labour Party as Minister of Finance and Prime Minister. At least something else has not been adopted by the Committee. So to the question to the Minister of Finance: I have asked the Minister of Finance on a number of occasions about possible efficiency improvements in the State budget. I have shown that the red-green government carried out a pension reform that only in the 2018 budget saves the state for 30 billion. kr, primarily in the case of increased labour participation, and asked what reforms the Right and the Advance Party – which so often criticise the opposition for not being reform-friendly enough – have implemented that have something to do with such a potential for savings. The ABE reform is being pushed forward, and it may provide a few billion over many years through a clean framework. So here, Siv Jensen is given the opportunity to tell Stortinget what reforms can match the pension reform in real savings on the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1356	I note that when the Workers' Party is going to discuss reforms, they really have only one answer, and that is pension reform – while in action they have voted against about all the proposals that this government has made over several years, which have been about streamlining, debureaucratising and simplifying. I spent a large part of my post talking about exactly this question, because it's important. It's going to be even more important in the years that are coming, that we dare to prioritize, that we dare to discuss how we can free up space just to bet on improving the well-being of this country. But then also the Workers' Party must now move from having a rhetorical exercise around issues of reform to actually voting for them. If what we see is an Workers' Party going there, nothing would have pleased me more. We are going to need many more reforms in the time to come. Then we both have to implement them and stand by them when someone starts to dislike them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1363	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1368	The 2018 state budget facilitates continued green economic growth, for necessary conversion, for more people in work and thus for a more sustainable welfare society. The Norwegian economy is in a calmer waters after we have experienced a crime lake after the oil price fell by over 70 pst. from the oil price increase in 2014. What we're seeing now is that economic growth is on its way up, that unemployment is on its way down, and that more jobs are created. The forecasts suggest that in the coming years, the Norwegian economy will grow slightly more than normal. It's joyous, not least because increased economic growth provides a more sustainable welfare society. It was right to spend more oil money as we were to counteract the effects of the oil price drop. Now it's true that the growth in transfers from the fund will decrease in the years to come. As the economy grows, we need to keep up the use of oil money and public spending, primarily to ensure our fundamental well-being and to ensure that public growth does not threaten the competitiveness of the Norwegian economy. Norwegian business is the basis for jobs both today and in the future. It is therefore reassuring that the government's tightening up of the rules of action will be fully endorsed by the Stortinget and that we are still under the rule of action with this budget. It would be wrong to increase public expenditure growth and finance it by confiscating the purchasing power of families and the investment power of businesses through increased taxes and taxes, not least for a time after all the social partners have shown solidarity in order to obtain more jobs by having moderate wage settlements. Increased public expenditure would now create fewer jobs contributing to the state budget, and more people eating from the state budget. In the long term, it undermines our ability to have a sustainable welfare society. More people in jobs and more who work longer are absolutely important to ensure a sustainable welfare society. This is why more people have to qualify for work. The jobs must be profitable and green. It strengthens economic sustainability, it strengthens climate sustainability, and it strengthens not least the social sustainability, because more people feel that they are involved, that they are part of society, that they have something meaningful to go to. It will also make fewer poor and smaller differences. If there are more jobs, the Norwegian economy still has to change. The transition must also help us to achieve our climate objectives. That is why we are implementing a green shift, where climate change emissions are being reduced while creating new jobs. In 2018, the tax reform will be completed. It makes it more profitable for the Nordics to invest in Norwegian jobs. The budgetary unity between the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party also strengthens the framework conditions for entrepreneurs and innovative industries. Machinery taxes are to be phased out – a long-term measure to ensure more investment in industry and production throughout the country. When you listen to the debate today – and I have listened to many debates in Stortinget through my political life – you often hear debates that are marked by demands for more money or criticism that measures are too small in dollars and ears. Yes, often the political difference is dimensioned according to whether you have five million more or five million less for an action. But I have to say that it is also possible to get big results not only through small amounts, but also by doing things another way. Let me now give some examples from the budget. The obligation of activity for young people is maintained. We raised the money to the municipalities last year to implement it. In the long term, it is an important measure to get young people who can work to return to work, either through work training or by raising their skills, or are motivated to return to education. It will help fewer people to stand outside in the future, more people to work and help raise our society. The absence limit is another example. Day off is reduced by 40 pst. That's what I think is going to mean that more people are completing high school in the years that are coming. I think in the years that are coming, we should be better off looking at how we spend the money we have in the state budget, more than just discussing whether we've added five or ten million extras. Because it's like having a critical eye on what we're using today's appropriations, and that's the results that count, not the level of allocation. The results are what is crucial also for getting a sustainable welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1387	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1392	Yes, it's the results that count and what the money goes to. I want to put the search light on a theme, competence, which we all agree on means a lot. In particular, we now see the importance of ICT competence, that we train young people who can bet on it through their professional life – to solve big, important tasks for our country. In recent years, we have seen the situation in hospitals when health regions have not had competence and have had to put out a lot of work. Buying services from abroad can be good in hospitals too, but it also has something to do with our national preparedness and really with our ability to do big tasks yourself. Now this weekend we read about the situation in digital preparedness. In DN, it was stated how Norway’s ability to maintain its own safety is seriously threatened by a lack of point competence in cryptology. Year after year, the government has failed to grant money to new places of study in ICT, and now we see the consequences. Olav Lysne refers to the deficiency as a ‘fight problem’ for Norwegian safety. The results have not been delivered here, the money has not been found, the young have not been trained. What does the Prime Minister think to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1399	In fact, this State budget establishes a number of ICT study places in all the different ICT education systems as a result of the priorities that have been set, and thus there is an increase in the number of ICT sites. What is a challenge in the Norwegian education system is that even though one under this government has significantly increased in the so-called post-doc positions and in the doctoral positions as part of the escalation that we have within the long-term research plan, we see that it is a challenge to get the Nordics to move on in the higher education system and really take the upper hand. We see that many of those who are applying for these jobs come with the background of another country and cannot necessarily be cleared up for safety in order to enter the Norwegian labour market. It's a challenge that we have to address, but this is not about the basic number of jobs; it's about top-notch competence. When I was visiting Gjøvik, who has a great identity system work, nobody had a Norwegian background working there. It's going to be a safety challenge. It's a different debate than the debate that Jonas Gahr Støre is now raising.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1409	Norway's largest mainland industry is the food industry. Nearly 50,000 people work in that industry, and one has jobs all around the country, and it has been an industry that has been willing to invest. That's why I think it was amazing that Erna Solberg, as Prime Minister, could put an approved stamp on a two-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr – overnight – to this industry, that Erna Solberg, who often talks about predictability for Norwegian business, seems quite fine that Freia gets 360 million. kr more in charge at one factory plant, that Nidar receives more than 200 million. kr in increased charges on its facilities, and that Lerum – which Erna Solberg visited before the election and in a way sung in the shine of the investments – now receives an invoice of more than 16 million. kr, to one installation. Is this responsible, and can Erna Solberg explain why it is wise to conduct this kind of charging policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1414	The government did not propose a dramatic increase in these budgets, but we have listened to what the Stortinget wanted. There has been a clear and broad majority in Stortinget that has wanted a clear and clear increase in fees directed at unhealthy food, in particular soup and mineral water. It has been expressed in the alternative budgets of several parties, and it was part of the discussion that was held in the Storting around these questions, which resulted in the follow-up of what has been a clear central party demand over many years. And as a representative from Hordaland, along with the representative Kjersti Toppe, I have seen the headlines where she accuses the government of not taking unhealthy eating habits, for example. young people seriously. This has therefore been done by the Storting in this budget compromise when they have made a significant increase in the charges in this area. There is a consequence that will also come from almost all the other alternative state budgets presented here. I hear that the Central Party does not now agree with the policy they have clearly stated several times in the past, but rather we have to put that on the quota for the spin-off in the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1421	If the government continues to let the differences increase today, we'll have a colder society tomorrow. This government has rigged the tax system for the economic elite, systematically turned down or removed taxes on what those who have the most in Norwegian society are picking up their income. SV has put forward a tax policy that goes in the opposite direction; it is for the many, not for the few. This will mean that the typical employee with an income below NOK 600 000 is left with significantly more than with the government's arrangements. The government's tax policy is for the few, not for the many. A yard worker who loses his job has been taxed more on his termination pay, while the shareholders are now the group that benefits from this budget proposal. Why is the Right, who claims that they care about tax bills, so much worse on tax bills to ordinary people than SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1428	I think I and the representative Lysbakken agree that it's a challenge if the inequalities get too big in a society. In particular, I am concerned that when we are building a sustainable welfare society, social sustainability is important. It's about that the inequalities don't get too big. It's not least that people feel that they're mastering their own lives, that they can participate in society, that they have an opportunity to try. So we'll probably have a slightly different approach to what are the big inequality challenges. I think, for example: That inequality in health is one of the greatest challenges we face. The biggest difference in Norway is in life based on what your life has been like. It's up for almost 15 to 20 years, based on whether you have a good economic background or if you have a worse economic background – just look at how we treat people with different health systems. That's why I think what we do about creating patients' health care is extremely important, that users are allowed to participate in the development of the health care system. You get a bigger view of it. That's why arresting poor children is important. This is why the work page is important. In fact, for me, the most important thing we do is to make sure that parents get to work, so that their children see that work pays off, and that it's important for their own development.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1437	In the election campaign, the Left tried to promise that we in Norwegian school today have a lot of teachers who teach subjects they have not trained to teach. There have been very frequent discussions about early school interventions, without fully considering the report just presented by the Children’s Ombudsman, which shows that two thirds of those with special education in Norwegian school do not have education to do so. These are the major challenges in Norwegian school. Lell went right in the budget, and said we're going to have a minimum standard on the number of teachers in the class. Then I hope that the Prime Minister has a really good plan to make sure that there are skilled people, and that there will be no reform that will allow us to send even more unskilled people into Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1442	Now, the representative, Skei Grande, is part of the agreement that has agreed to a standard at school. In this way, we do well to share the responsibility for ensuring that there is a good reform for the school, once we have agreed to it. I agree with the representative Skei Grande's scepticism at the bottom that it is not the number of teachers who are initially the challenge of early efforts. It's the focus of the work that's done. It's the knowledge of working with those who have special problems. It's e.g. the ability to crack the code on reading and writing – different methods. It's also putting in a professional level for those who work at school. These are pretty dramatic numbers, and they're not new. At least before, we've had numbers that it's over 50 pst. which is stored only when they receive special instruction. Special education may seem to be more of a system to keep children with high needs out of a classroom than to provide them with an assistance. I don't think more teachers are preventing this, but that means that we have to be systematic to achieve precisely the goals of ensuring that they get additional skills to work on these questions. This is why, among other things: a continuation of the major continuing training effort we have, very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1449	That answer makes me ask a slightly different question to the Prime Minister, because the Prime Minister had the pleasure of commenting on a poll in which all the four parties who have cooperated on the budget come forward. Then she said, "I think people see that we get into politics and that they like the policies we get into." Me knows, among other things: And the thing that people like is that we've now got a teacher's norm. It says parents are good, that says the teachers are good, that says the students are good – precisely because we get a good, early effort. I thought there was a little bit of enthusiasm for a reform that we know could mean so much to so many elephants, and I therefore wanted to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to show a little enthusiasm for perhaps the greatest educational policy reform in this millennium.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1459	I'm always -- I think -- most concerned with quality and a little bit less quantity. It's a bit of a challenge with a crew norm. It is also the case that some of the countries with the best school outcomes will now have significantly increased staffing associated with this, while some of those who had needed even more intensity will get almost nothing. That's a little bit of the challenge in this regard. I think we should be honest – it's a challenge. That doesn't mean that it's a barrier to getting to other things, because of course it's better that there are more teachers. But we're doing a priority where the schools my children have gone on are going to get a lot more teacher's work, despite the fact that they are cutting high on all the social indicators in this country, while where you cut low on everyone, and where you have the highest drop-out rate, you don't necessarily get it. It means to me that it's going to be a challenge to get it done. The second challenge we have is to make sure that we still target, because there is so much more than just teaching positions that need to make sure that those who are weaker are actually lifted in school everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1464	At the NHO conference, the Prime Minister said that climate policy will be significantly stepped up in the future. Now the Prime Minister has four years behind him, and her government has led a pace of climate policy that in CICERO calculations means that we will spend more than 2,300 years getting to the low-carbon society. This year's government budget shows that the government intends to continue at the same pace, suggesting that the government has misunderstood this by 2030 to mean 2,030 years. There is no ambition in the budget for increased climate action. There is no further distortion of the fleet against zero emissions, no increase for the emission-free maritime sector, and 95 pst. cut in carbon capture and storage funds. The question is: how does Erna Solberg explain the relationship between what she repeatedly said in the election campaign and the state budget of the year, and how can we govern under the Climate Act without a climate budget of her own, as Oslo has now introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1471	Firstly, emissions are now falling in Norway. The emissions last year went down. So we've been able to reverse the evolution. The forecasts made about the impact of today's policies show a dynamic effect. There were 8 billion in the gap for the 2020 targets when we got into the government. Now it's gaped down to 2 million tons compared to that. That means that we've had a pretty big effect on politics, but the way CICERO calculates, they don't calculate any dynamic effect of technology being further developed. It is the climate action studies that have been carried out, which are the projections for future development, because new technologies are spreading and becoming more dominant every year. In this budget we take the consequences of quite a lot. We take the consequences of higher and more expensive ferry costs because we have made stronger climate demands. That's why we're increasing the money of the county councils related to it. We're increasing the Enova transfer, which now reaches the level of the four parties that have stood behind the government, in fact said we should have, but as the red-green government said no when we tried to negotiate before the climate deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1478	The level of crime in the labour market is increasing, and clear conditions in the industry are breaking down. The serious companies that pay tariffs and pay taxes are being outrun by unprofessional and even criminal networks, often with respect to Eastern Europe, which compete out of the serious business of ours. There is recent evidence in a book on the paint industry that it is the Albanian Mafia that now has a lot of the paint market in Norway. One looks similar in many other industries as well. Many people have come to realize that the most important force for law and order in the world of work is to have strong trade unions, clubs present at the workplace, construction sites, which can take it up if there are illegalities going on. The cheapest form of some kind of civil protection is therefore to strengthen the trade movement around the country. Why is the government opposed to increasing the trade union deduction in the budget? It would be a cheap way and also countered social dumping and labour crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1488	The government has an ambitious and active policy against labour-related crime, which I believe is considerably more targeted than increasing the trade-union quota deduction in budgets in general. These include: working towards the EU, as we have now done, with our own initiative relating to nine different actions. This is in order to contribute to the fact that what we now see as an experience from our labour market in terms of borders – when it is cross-border, and where we have problems with the follow-up in other countries – is actually focused, by ensuring that the EU contributes to better cooperation between national supervisory bodies, by ensuring that we have a common ID control system across Europe so that at a workplace we actually know who is there, control those who are there, and follow the financial flows, for example. on salaries and other matters, and have common rules for it when people cross borders. This is an initiative that, if we get EU-wide penetration, will actually help our control systems to function much better, and I think this is more targeted – while it is good control work – than to increase the union quota.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1493	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1498	Norway is characterised by smaller differences and stronger cohesion than many other countries. We have many in work and a strong welfare state. The state budget for 2018 confirms that unemployment is on the decline and the growth of the Norwegian economy is on the way. That's good. But if we raise our eyes slightly beyond 2018, we see some of the biggest challenges Norway has faced in many years, now moving closer. It characterizes the entrance to this landfill period. The problems we're facing are big, many, and important. It should have embossed the state budget for next year from the government, but it doesn't. Let me give you four examples. We need to reverse the trend with more and more people who don't get a job, or only get unsafe jobs. We have to get out of school and give more young people a good start to life and work. We need to provide better quality care to several older people. During this ageing period, we need to start to make significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. It's urgent if we're going to achieve the goals that Stortinget has set for 40 pst. Cut by 2030. The Labour Party has provided an alternative budget, responding to these four challenges. We have a different priority. Those of us with the most pay something more to the community. It gives room for bets. We're using 2.5 billion. kr more than the Right and Advance Party in order to increase employment and social security, increase the use of wage subsidies and labour market measures, activity reform for young people, strategic maritime investment, zero-emission ferries, environmental technology system – the list is long. We're using a lot more, and it's for the purpose, Prime Minister, who's delivering results at the common school and our common health and care services and cheaper kindergartens. We have a thousand new teachers in 1-4. class, teacher effort as real monks, three thousand new places of study – a thousand of them for the strategically important ICT area – 1 billion. more to hospitals and a large effort on technology in the care of the elderly. We also invest in climate action as monks, we invest more in collective projects in cities, in railways between cities, and in the capture and storage of CO 2 and more. What about the state budget presented by the Right and the Advance Party? It doesn't take the grips that are needed. Once again, in a financial debate, we have to say that the Left, and especially the Christian People's Party, have been corrected by some of the most unfortunate outcomes of the Right and Advance Party policies. Once again, we also have to say that the government's budget is increasing the differences in Norway. In too many areas, the budget prioritises the few, not the many. The tax scheme has a recognisable unsocial profile, and the expenditure side is marked by small cuts in the benefits of some of those who have at least before, as recipients of daily allowances. And the budget has, once again, a weak district profile. We're correcting that in our budget by saying no to the tax increases for commuters and investing 1.6 billion. more for broadband deployment, coastal deployment, regional development funds and more. Despite high levels of money usage, the government does not spend the money on the really big tasks, such as getting more jobs and less on social security, as early school efforts to get the drop-off, which really equips the care sector for the doubling of the number of older people now coming in a generation. It's disappointing, but it's not surprising. In the previous ageing period, the Right and Advance Party used over thousands of new oil billions spread in many areas, but without being able to point to one major welfare reform. After the fall we are now behind, it is with respect to report even less reason to be surprised that it has gone dull and small. No new visions or bets, no new ones in the major areas such as work, school, care and climate, no new government platform and no clarification about who should once sit in government. Norway can do better. And even though the Left and Christian People's Party this time secures the majority of the government parties for a weak budget, I will end by repeating the promise of the throne debate earlier this fall: the Labour Party will do what we can as the largest opposition party in the future to pull the policy in the changed direction towards the centre-left. We want to use the opportunities that open up in the new enlargement to build a new majority – in individual cases, and in sum and over time for a policy that really pays attention to Norwegian interests, our young people, people at work, families, a safe working life and an innovative working life and jobs and value creation across the country – not least the promise of our unique natural resources as a major effort on the marine industries, on the blue and green bioeconomy. Norway needs to remain a country with small differences, equal opportunities and a strong community.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1540	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1545	I have seen through the recent budget debates and have recorded that Jonas Gahr Støre was very concerned about the country's development, but this was to be corrected by the voters at the elections in September. The voters would do it differently. The working party is still in opposition, the right is in position. The working party did not provide the answers that the voters would like. They spent time in opposition criticising and not developing their own policies. I think we're now right where we were before the election. That's the same lesson again. For example, when we were here in the context of the revision, the Workers' Party spent a lot of time at national transport level. They had raised 27 road projects that they were supposed to provide, which would cost 7 billion. kr. It was a problem because it cost 50 billion. I'll take care of them. What's the fasit now, after this great election promise? Well, the Workers' Party no longer allows for roads. They're cutting in New Roads with 60 million. kr, and they cut 500 million. kr in toll reduction outside cities. Does this not show that the Workers' Party does not have a clear line, that they give election promises that they break two months after the election?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1552	No, it doesn't. We are addressing the major theme of 'Norwegian infrastructure' and focusing on areas that the government has deliberately undermined in its proposal. We'll bet on the coast. We'll bet on the ports. We'll bet on broadband. We focus on areas that are important to make the whole of Norway work. At the same time, there is a lot of activity both on roads and on rail, but in these areas, the government has cut, not bet, and been hanging after, and we're fixing that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1557	The working party went on a solid electoral list. In the self-examination afterwards, it has been tried to reduce this to bad communication, that the message has not been received, that the voters did not perceive things correctly, and that you had the wrong rhetoric and the wrong tactics. But has the representative Gahr Støre ever thought that it is not because of the wrong rhetoric, but the wrong policy that he and the Workers' Party lost the election? Together with Trond Giske, the representative Gahr Støre argued throughout the election campaign that taxes would increase by 15 billion. kr, and they even distributed these during the election campaign. It was, in fact, absolutely necessary and fair, while the tax burden to the government was irresponsible, unsocial and unfair. When the Workers' Party now leaves and burys the empty rhetoric that 1 kr less in taxes is 1 kr less in welfare, and votes for about 15 br. Does this mean that you recognise that you can reduce taxes and increase well-being at the same time?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1562	I think the Labour Party has been far more brutal in its own evaluation than the representative Simonsen now said. It is quite clear that we have challenges in terms of politics and reaching the voters with important messages. So we're working on that on a wide front. I believe that promising more well-being and less taxes over time is not possible. It was possible in the last period, because you could put on oil money and cover over. It's not going to be like this in the years that are coming. That message stands firm. Then I think about taxes: as much as necessary and as little as possible. That's why we've said up to 15 billion. kr. We show in our budget that through re-priorities and through some of us paying something more, the highest-end assets, we are getting strong stakes in the areas of work, competence, health and care and climate. There are bets that are necessary for the differences not to increase, for the trust to be maintained, and for us to solve some of the major tasks facing our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1569	The Workers' Party and the Centre agree that municipal mergers shall take place through local initiative and volunteering. Once, the government parties felt the same, but they changed the strategy when the municipal reform met massive resistance among citizens and local politicians. In addition to using coercive measures in a number of cases, the government has also introduced new and very specific financial support schemes to promote the reform. They have introduced so-called regional centre grants, which are to be attributed to those who became 8 000 inhabitants after they were merged in 2017, and they have exempted merged municipalities from the effect of changes in the income system. The bill goes to small and medium-sized municipalities. For 2018, 454 million will be taken. kr from the general grant to the municipalities to promote merged municipalities. There is money to be allocated according to expenditure needs in order to provide equivalent services to citizens throughout the country, but that has now become premium money for those who join forces. What is the attitude of the Workers' Party towards this way of promoting the objectives of fewer municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1576	Using financial resources that forced, forcing municipalities to join forces against their will, we are opposed. Then we need to develop our municipal funding to ensure that our municipalities, small or large, can solve the many tasks assigned to them. This could apply to the very largest of the municipalities, as the city we are now in, or smaller municipalities. Then we also have to be able to capture that the size of the municipalities changes. People are moving, and we have to have a municipal funding system that can take into account that we're doing the best we can. But putting municipalities in a situation of coercion by changing the financing system is not a wise way to move forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1581	As the representative Gahr Støre is aware, the current government has cut taxes by 23.4 billion. kr. So it's going to be 23.4 billion. For example, the number of nonsocial cuts for the welfare of people, such as the number of drug users, is much lower. cut off in the care allowance. The government's tax arrangements are to rig the system for them most already. Norway's richest has got 160 times as much in tax laws as most people. It increases inequality in power and wealth. SV has proposed a budget for the many, not just for the few – to combat the growing differences. The Labour Party promised in the election campaign to raise taxes by 15 billion. kr, but now we see that the Workers' Party has provided an alternative budget with an increase of 4.5 billion. kr. A number of unsocial cuts and changes that have been implemented have not been reversed with this budget, for example: the inheritance fee. Nearly 77 of Norway's 100 richest are heirs. My question is, what about the representative's self-confidence in combating the growing differences with such a cautious change in the tax regime proposed by the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1589	Thank you, self-confidence is fine. We're going through a search after the election. It is not really self-confidence, but it must be linked to political wisdom. We were against many of the cuts that were carried out – not all, but many of them. We contributed to a tax reform. In contrast to SV, we went in and completed a tax reform like our government, where SV also set up, took the initiative, which makes it better for our businesses while at the same time preserving justice and better tax systems in terms of property and other values. Then we have to find out that the voters have elected a government again despite the tax cuts that increase the differences. We're going to continue to fight it, but that doesn't mean we can at the same time say that anything that's suggested can be reversed. It's not only through taxes that we fight increased differences, but also in our tax system we show that those with stronger shoulders can pay something more. Then we get room for big bets, but there's a lot of other things that are needed to combat the differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1598	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1603	First, I also want to thank the Christian People's Party and the Left for once again concluding a budgetary agreement with the Right and the Advance Party. When I hear the opposition, which has now spent time taking replicas on Jonas Gahr Støre, it shows that there is only one real alternative now, and that is that the government we have, with partners, will continue. It doesn't seem like there's any special pleasure in being able to cooperate on the other side, and we're taking that with us as a good start to this period. We have set behind us a huge oil price drop – the largest in 30 years. Freedom has begun to decline, growth is increasing, and more jobs are being created. We've been driving safely through a difficult time. Now we go into better times, and then we have to hold back the use of money in order not to put pressure on the crown, the interest rate and the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. This is how we support the transition and facilitate the positive development of the Norwegian economy. The state budget for 2018 is a budget for economic growth, more in jobs and a sustainable welfare society. The main arrangements from the government’s budgetary proposals remain firm. Investment shall be made in new hospitals, roads and railways and the defence shall be upgraded. The commitment to research and development continues. Prioritisations bear the command that the government wants to invest in a policy that ensures a sustainable welfare society. Government policies support activity, work and conversion. After several years with a sharp increase in the use of oil revenues, the outlook for the Norwegian economy indicates that fiscal policy will be normalised in 2018. This is now a good economic development across the country. Therefore, a neutral fiscal policy is introduced. The use of oil revenue corresponds to 2.9 pst. by the capital of the State pension fund abroad. The establishment of the budget, with tax incentives, investment in infrastructure, research and innovation, supports growth and conversion. The same is true of monetary policy, where a weaker krone than before the fall in oil prices strengthens the competitiveness of business. The government continues the implementation of the tax reform in line with the agreement we obtained in the Stortingen in the previous period. The company tax rate has been reduced from 28 p.m. in 2013 to 23 pst. in 2018. Improvements are also made in the taxes on wealth, which will strengthen Norwegian private ownership and distort investment from property to jobs by increasing the valuation discount on shares and operating assets from 10 p.m. until 20 pst. in 2018. The government also implements several measures that help to expand the tax base and improve the tax system. In line with the government's political platform and budgets for the last three years, the focus on health, transport, education and municipal services continues. In this way, we give priority to the welfare systems that people rely on, while at the same time helping to strengthen Norway's growth capacity in the long term. The draft budget also represents continued efforts to improve the country’s security and preparedness, including: through investments in police and defence infrastructure. The opposition parties have submitted their alternative state budgets. I have noticed that other parties want to increase public expenditure growth and finance it by withdrawing private purchasing and investing power through increased taxes and taxes. It's not the right medicine to create new jobs in Norway. The debates in the media have been little influenced by new ideas for better opposition solutions. On the contrary, many opposition parties have waged a struggle to ensure that everything is as it has always been. It is therefore worth recalling the challenges we face in the years ahead. The action space in the Norwegian economy up to 2030 will be more pressing in view of the fact that we will have many more older people over 80 years, that we will make a transition to the low-carbon society and convert the Norwegian economy from oil and gas to new industries. In the years to come, I think Norwegian political debate will be more marked by these issues. Prioritisation, reform and modernisation may once again be important terms of reference. When the Right Party and the Advance Party choose to prioritize and modernise, we do so to preserve Norway as the world's best country to live in. We have given tax reliefs and invested in nutrient research because we want to create more jobs. We have activity-oriented benefits and have invested in school knowledge to get more people to work. If anyone who can work is at work, we can afford to help those who need it most in Velferds-Norway. It is therefore with optimism and confidence in the future that the Right wants to build the Norway of the future – a Norway that should be greener, smarter and more diverse than today, a Norway where those who can work, support themselves and participate in society. It will be a Norway that is in better condition than what we took from our parents. It will be a sustainable welfare society. That's what this budget is a step towards.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1631	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1636	Right often claims that they are a business-friendly party, and that some of it is also about being good for business. But now – in the fifth year – we have a budgetary settlement between the government party and the cooperation party on the Stortinget, where it is not the first time that the negotiations in the Stortinget last round will end with an unexpected and totally unexpected change in the tax rate that has an impact on Norwegian business. In 2015 it was the plastic bag charge, in 2016 it was the airstation fee, and this year's Christmas surprise was thus a quite sudden increase in the sugar charge. My question to the representative of Greece is: Does he himself think that this is a good way to pursue industrial policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1643	No, the most predictable thing would be to have a majority government, which could have provided a budget without the Storting and – I was saying – democracy squeaking away from it. But what we've done this time is to charge a fee that I thought there was quite a broad consensus about in Stortinget. There is some discussion about the device, but I noticed that the Workers' Party spent about the same amount, perhaps a little more, doing something similar to the VAT on sugar products. This is a charge which, of course, was not a primary proposal from the government, but which I believe can also contribute to better public health, and which is something I think would somehow push itself forward. The problem Tajik is that when you have a minority government, which the Labour Party had before they got eight years of majority government, you have to have negotiations in the Stortinget. It can help bring about charges that were not notified, and it is an unforeseeable thing that we must live with in a democratic system.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1652	The difference between what the Workers' Party has proposed and what the government is about to introduce is how an industry approaches a change in VAT that turns out at the outlet level, compared to a tax that goes directly to producers. That's what the reality of the government is now going to go in for, and that the cooperation party supports up below. This includes, for example: that traditional producers such as Oskar Sylte can manage to shut down, as the Romsdals Budstik did not report in the previous week. My main criticism is that it's not far-fetched: the charge comes suddenly, without notice, and it's for a long number of actors. I'm a little surprised that the government hasn't learned, and that they can't plan better. I almost have to ask if the representative of Greece can tell whether there are any elements of the business community that are in any way at risk of sudden charges in future budgetary negotiations, or whether all parts of Norwegian business are now forced to engage in the rigid situation that he describes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1661	I am almost touched when the representative Tajik appears to be the great defender of Norwegian business and the one who will contribute to predictability, when the Labour Party in the election campaign made clear promises to increase taxes by 15 billion. kr, which they are not able to deliver now – fortunately – but are still looking to take Norwegian business. Then all of a sudden, the Workers' Party is the one who is going to teach the Right on how to conduct business-friendly policies. The NHO and the large organisations are pleased with the policy of this government. We have – together with the Workers' Party – reduced company tax. We've taken great steps to bring down the property tax. We have arranged to create better conditions for business. It actually goes sour in Norwegian business now. We have an increase in employment, unemployment is falling. We have a good development that makes Norwegian export companies do better than ever. So I think they're satisfied with the development of Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1668	There's a lot to hear in the main hall, for example. the right parliamentary leader is touched by the highest fee increase of the time – at 83 pst. – completed. He should be embarrassed, and he should say: In all the world – what is it the Right uses its votes on when they're going to increase the fees by 360 million. kr only to Freia's facility? I, who once was a young and promising Young Right Leader, had never thought that I would use my power to bring in 200 million. kr more in charge of Nidar’s plant in Trondheim or 16 million. kr more at the Lerum plant in Sogndal. This is a completely irresponsible policy, and that is the responsibility of the Right. There are most votes from the Right to this proposal, then from the Progress Party, and the Center Party has never promoted it, no matter how many times Greece says it. What is the reason why the Right uses its power to carry out a fee increase of 83 pst. on Vitamin Bears, while chocolate biscuits are exempted?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1677	I do not know whether the representative, Mr. Slagsvold Vedum, combines the terms «shut» and «rope», because there was a lot of pipe in this post from the representative. I was touched by Hadia Tajik’s care for Norwegian business. Of course, I do not think anything special about the need to increase the sugar levy as much as the representative Schlagsvold Vedum points out, but it is part of a budgetary settlement, and we can live well with it, especially because we know that both the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and others in this room have demanded that we set up the fees on unhealthy food, including sugar. So this is a adaptation I think we can take. I really hope that we can get both pear shower and pineapple shower in the future, and I am going to help increase sales by buying some bottles of it, of which Hadia Tajik was busy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1682	Climate change, as we have heard earlier today, is already underway and will affect the many who are coming after us. Therefore, all state budgets must be the environmental budget of the times – for the many, not for the few. Today, the government is driving a tough course towards breaking the Stortingen climate settlement on large cuts in Norwegian emissions by 2020. For this reason, I would like to ask the Right of Greece: how much emissions can we expect from the government's draft budget, and how much greater are the cuts for the agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1688	I really want to say that this government has shown for four years that we have managed to control this in a good way. Climate emissions, both in the quota and non-quota sectors, are declining in Norway. It's a completely different development than the one that was under eight years old with SV in government. We have an electric car policy that is offensive, we have an offensive climate policy, we have the Paris agreement. We're going to work hard to get to this. And as I said in my post, we need a conversion in this country, and then everyone has to contribute, also to get a greener growth in the years to come. We have done this well through the conversion packages we have set up, both research and development, renewable energy, electric car policy and other things. So I mean we're on the right track. I think SV's concerns – as always – exceed what is real. We're on the right track, and we're helping bring down the climate emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1697	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1702	I am both happy and proud that for five years in a row, we ensure a majority for a new state budget, and that the main efforts of the Advance Party and the Right in Government can continue into 2018. Thanks to the parties who have contributed and who also put their impressions on the budget agreement for next year. The situation in the Grand Duchy is different now compared to the previous period, but the non-socialist majority shows the will and ability to establish a majority of the main framework in the budget for next year. Then it seems that the opposition, at least some in the opposition, is very surprised that the Progress Party has not won everything in the budget negotiations. But that is not the way negotiations are conducted or contribute to consensus, either in the Storting or outside. Negotiations are just to give and take to ensure the integrity and establish a majority of the best possible budget that continues to take Norway in the right direction. We have been through difficult times in recent years with severe oil price falls, and many have lost their jobs. We've steered this safely. The outlook is brighter than it has been for a long time: growth in the economy is rising, unemployment is falling — it has been falling steadily in the last 11 months — and we see a positive trend in employment. This just shows that policy has been properly designed since 2013. It is important for the Progress Party to be part of this majority and to ensure predictability, because we need more jobs, and business and businesses need good framework conditions. It is precisely what this government has provided and will deliver in the future. The option would be a Workers' Party regime that changes its position almost from day to day. It is enough to mention municipal reform, the level of taxation and, last but not least, asylum policy. The only thing they were sure about in the campaign was that they wanted to raise taxes by 15 billion. kr. They didn't quite know why, and they didn't know what to spend the money on. Fortunately, the Labour Party did not get a majority. It would be quite serious for Norwegian businesses and jobs, it could have made it more difficult to establish businesses, more would be out of Norway, and more jobs would be lost. Fortunately, it seems that the Workers' Party has also understood this when, after the election, they have now said that they will not increase taxes that much anyway. Then something good came out of this campaign. The Progress Party is committed to the security of ordinary people. We are therefore pleased that the justice and preparedness sector has been significantly strengthened in recent years. We have provided far more policemen in the streets, and we have provided new equipment for the police. This is absolutely essential for the police to be able to meet the growing threats we are facing, in the best possible way. Defence and home security have been given new equipment, and the partly dense bulkheads that have been between police and defence are being built down to improve the coordination of resources. This work will continue with the Progress Party, and we will work hard every day to make police and preparedness the best possible for the citizens of Norway. I am also pleased that we in the state budget for 2018 are spending enough money to ensure that all newly educated people next year can be offered a job in the police department. I am absolutely sure that ordinary people will also feel much safer as one sees the positive effects of the near-police reform that is now being introduced, and that will help the police also concentrate the resources of police and prosecution authorities to combat what is an increasing form of advanced crime, and which is not necessarily the ordinary people experience in their everyday lives, but which are nevertheless present, and must be combated. One of the most important things that politicians do is to help people get treatment when they get sick or are unable to take care of themselves. I am very proud that the Advance Party has been given an increased patient treatment in Norwegian hospitals every year during this period. In 2018, it will continue to increase – a further increase has been foreseen by the government on the part of about 50 % of the population. 2 pst. It's important for the individual. It's important that we reduce health cows because we've changed the policy, and it's also important for society as a whole, because it helps more people get back to work faster, and that they don't get sick for a long time. The state budget for 2018 is a budget that builds the country for the future and that meets the needs of ordinary people without having to pay too much in taxes. This is a line that the Progress Party will continue to bet on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1721	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1726	The representative Limi was talking a little bit about ordinary people, and that's what I'm going to ask about as well. The representative of the Limis party was once known as the party for the strong reduction of taxes, taxes and public intervention. But the years the leader of the Progress Party has our finance ministers have revealed that the truth is quite dramaticly different. Because while those who have the most in the world have been paid with tax cuts, the budgetary agreement has resulted in net tax increases with the Progress Party in government with a good margin of 6 billion. kr. My question to the representative Limi is: How does he mean that a net fee increase of well over 6 billion. kr, with the leader of the Progress Party as Minister of Finance, is something that benefits people the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1733	Fee increases do not benefit most people. But what is the result after we came into government in 2013 is that we have just managed to reduce taxes and taxes by nearly 25 billion. kr., including a reduction in income tax of NOK 8 000 for ordinary families with an average income. There's a lot of money. At the same time, there has also been a conversion of car charges. This means that new, safe and environmentally friendly cars have become significantly cheaper, which, in turn, is an opportunity for more people to make that choice and which help us to renew the car park and reduce the environmental impact of private cars. So in sum, I'm quite proud of what we've done. I see that we also have the opportunity to apply more reductions in taxes in the future, but we know that as long as we are in a minority, we are totally dependent on establishing a majority in the Stortinge for each state budget. Then we have to do the whole thing. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1740	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1745	There is no party that has multiples alone. Everyone has to negotiate and get involved with others. No party goes so high on the track and promises one thing, but does something else, as the Progress Party does. That's right, what the representative says is that they've managed to get the taxes down, but that's where the most important people have been getting the most out of it. When they have increased the fees by a net of 6 billion. kr, there's something that hits the wallet for everyone. So we see that they've operated on multiple areas. They say they're worried about the signal effect of an increase in the number of quota refugees, and then they double the number of quota refugees. They say they don't want any more tolls, but now we can fix the status: there are toll records, with more than 60 more toll stations now than before the Progress Party came into government. So I almost have to ask, in what other area can we expect the Progress Party to do the exact opposite of what they promise their voters?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1752	I record that the representative provides a very incorrect history description. In fact, the Progress Party has contributed to a reduction of tax burden in Norway by almost 25 billion. kr, if you include the consequences of what is in the budget agreement for next year. One of the first things we did was to remove the inheritance fee. We have reduced the car charges. So we've returned to most people. We haven't been able to completely remove the toll, we've reduced the toll ratio. Now it's building more roads than ever before. But it is a reality that there is still a large majority in the United Kingdom who want roads financed by tolls in Norway. The party of progress primarily does not want that. As long as we don't get a majority for the primary position, we have to make sure that we do what is possible within the majority's framework, and it's just to contribute to less tolls, lower toll rates, and that we build more roads, so that the drivers get back some of what they pay to the state fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1759	On the image of the budget: last week we adopted the North Hordland package. Then I think the government parties made comments on tolls that could undermine the agreement behind the road package. At the same time, I asked the Minister for Transport how much toll had been charged to this government's seagoing service. But the minister thundered away verbally without suggesting a single number. I found out, however, that it is required approx. 39 B.C.E. kr in tolls in the last four years. The Progress Party – like the Centre Party – is committed to achieving the goal of using 2 pst. of the gross domestic product on Defence. But when the party says the tolls are going to go to zero, unless people say something else in a referendum, and then the tolls go up to record 131 billion. kr in the next transport planning period, how does the representative Limi think that this government can better meet the 2 pst target of the defence than at the toll target?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1766	Now I was a little in doubt if I would answer questions about the defense or tolls. But since the claims are that tolls are increasing, that is a consequence of much more construction than ever. It is still the case that there is a majority who want parts of the road development to be financed by tolls. The share goes down. This means that the road is built more per toll crown now than it did in the previous period – under the red-green ones. Then we've got a majority to reduce toll rates in the districts. It's added 500 million. kr in the budget to reduce toll tariffs as toll companies merge, operate more efficiently and reduce administrative costs. Then they are also rewarded by being able to apply for funds at reduced rates. So we've done a lot of work to reduce the load on the drivers, not least what we've done on other car-related taxes, which, during the period from 2013, have been reduced overall, when you see it in relation to the state's revenues, by 9 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1774	Since the Party of Advancement came to the government, they have, among other things, increased the price of kindergarten space by more than DKK 1000, cut the child supplement for casual and cut free physiotherapy for burns, cancers and lambs. The pensioners have become poorer — in several rounds. You have given increased taxes to those who lose the job. The list is long. But while the Progress Party punishes most people, there are some who win. VG reports that the richest have received NOK 575,000 each in tax cuts. The rest of us have got 10 kroner a day – barely enough for a beer for a week, and we need it when the Progress Party rules. The SV's proposal for a State budget is for the many, not for the few. That's why we suggest that most people get more than $2,000 in tax cuts every year. Will the Advance Party brush dust out of its old slogan and guarantee that they will never again propose more dollars in tax cuts to the billionaires than they suggest to the people most?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1781	Let me first say that I really like the representative Wilkinson a beer this week. It's just nice. So there's a lot of claims here, and those are the claims that are repeated continuously from SV. First of all, once and for all, we haven't removed the child supplement for the disabled, just so that's said. We've improved the conditions for the families with children. We've built a better babysitting. We've protected them with low and medium incomes when it comes to fixing how much to pay for a nursery place, and we've introduced flexible admissions. Everything has been provided for families with children, who have also received their share of tax relief during the years that have gone on since 2013. But once again, it is quite natural that when tax relief is implemented, it is those who pay the most tax initially, because we have a progressive tax system, which then also receives the greatest tax relief. But that doesn't mean that everyone, regardless of income, gets tax relief, and it's been the most important thing to ensure for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1788	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1793	In many ways, there is something very predictable about this budget. The government is providing a budget in which they once again shave district policy measures. All that tastes of rural policy – whether it be the balancing of network tariffs, regional development funds, corporate loans and grant schemes or actions in the primary industries – is barbaric. The direction of the centre piece is different from that of the center piece. The proposed broadband bet is far from what will be necessary if Norway is to be digitised. It is already becoming a digital class division in Norway, and we have a few years ahead of us now to try to avoid creating new large divisions between different parts of the country. It's 98 pst. in Oslo, access to high-speed broadband is the percentage in districts of 40. If the whole of Norway is to be digitised, if it is to make sense, what is in the budget for infrastructure, i.e. in the form of broadband, is completely inadequate. Center Party chooses a different direction. This is also a budget in which the conditions for important industry in Norway are weakened, not least in the districts. Increased VAT on tourism affects an industry employing tens of thousands of people throughout Norway. It is done in relation to a growing industry, a highly competitive industry. As usual, changes come without warning and stand in stark contrast to what the government said in the travel news in spring. Center Party chooses a different direction. This year, too, we are not being saved for the purely peculiarities of the tax front. This year’s increase in the sugar and chocolate levy is reflected in the range of fiscal policy curvatures that ensure that Norwegian industry has to take the bill for the civil budgetary unit. I have to say that when the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister stand on the floor of the Stortinge and speak against better knowledge of that charge, it is quite serious. The centre party has no proposal for an increase in the sugar levy in its budget. The centre party has been involved in the relationship between sugar and public health, but it is also true that the agreement between the industry and the state over the last ten years has reduced sugar consumption by 25 pst. The increase in fees of 83 pst. which the government is now in favour of, has no logical relationship with public health. There is no logical context when Nugatti and marengs get zero fee, while Farris with taste gets it. It hits completely arbitrarily, and it's one of the serious things about this fee. So it comes as lightning from the clear sky in a highly competitive industry. But what is most tangible and small – I would say – from the government is a Minister of Finance and a Prime Minister who stands on the Chair of the Storting and does not dare to stand up and defend the fee they are now going to apply. No, instead they push the Storting in front of them and say that this has not been proposed by the government. Implicit: This is not what the government stands for. It's small. There's not much statesmanly about it. The fact is that this stands for the government, this has been agreed by the government, and this is to be implemented by the government. It may well be as the representative of Greece said that the Right can live well with it. But an entire industry is not going to live well with it. The government confirms in many ways through the budget that they do not see Norway as a whole. They confirm that when they promise tax relief, there is often a price tag in the form of increased taxes, which also affects completely arbitrarily. The centre party chooses another way. We keep up the tax increases, we choose to give priority to important district measures and important industries. That is why we say no to the sugar charge that happens at random, which is poorly determined. That is why we say no to an increase in the travel income that goes straight to the bottom line of the many hotels, campsites, cultural experiences and travel activities that are available throughout the country. But we choose to say yes to infrastructure, like the expansion of broadband across the country, and we increase those appropriations considerably. We say yes to a better economy for the municipalities, because they are the ones that facilitate the welfare of all of us, we say yes to more police posts and a better police across the country, and we say yes to increasing investment in army and home security now, not tomorrow, not in the revised national budget, not next year. The budgetary policy process is predictable. It is also predictable that you will sit in the back rooms of Stortinget and negotiate until a settlement. We must note that the Right and Advance Party have now again managed to bind the Christian People's Party and the Left, not only in the budget, unfortunately, but also to negotiate the revised budget for spring, and also to bind them in all matters of economic importance. It's unfortunate, mostly for the Left Party and for the Christian People's Party, because in that context they are limited in what they think through their party programmes, and get a sense of the individual issues for which there is actually a majority in the Biggest Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1808	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1813	I noticed that the representative Arnstad was busy developing broadband. We also see that in the budget – both the Labour Party and the Centre Party have increased by 500 million. kr, while the government halves from 139 million. NOK 70 million. kr for 2018. In fact, broadband is as important as both power and telephone, and it would just be missing if not everyone, no matter where you live in this country, would have the opportunity and access to it. Since there is such a difference between the government's proposal and the Central Party's and Workers' Party's option, I simply wonder what the representative Arnstad thinks the consequences will be of what the government has presented, as opposed to what the Center Party itself has presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1820	Yes, both the Centre Party and the Workers' Party are engaged in broadband development. It's also quite natural, because all the talk about digitisation isn't really going to be if not everyone in the country gets access to the infrastructure needed to get a real digitization. Broadband is that infrastructure. We know it's now we have a window, it's a few years ahead we have a window to secure all the high-speed broadband. There, the Center Party and the Workers' Party have added 500 million. kr over several years in order to achieve this. For the next year it will be roughly equivalent to what has been applied for, because there is a lot of demand out there, among residents and among companies, after building broadband. The problem is that the government is not willing to increase those funds in such a way that it helps.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1825	Despite some increase in charges in connection with the grubbing-up agreements in recent years, this government has provided its citizens with tax reliefs of almost 25 billion. SEK four to five years. It is worth noting, however, that for the first time in many years – in fact, I think it is the first time in this millennium – the Centre Party has passed the Workers' Party in terms of who wants to increase taxes and charges for its inhabitants the most. While the Workers' Party wants a 5 billion increase in taxes. kr, the Centre Party has proposed 6 billion in its alternative budgets. kr in the increase for the country’s inhabitants next year. The Central Party's motto to bring the whole country into use also seems to apply when the country's long hand is going to go further into people's wallets. My question is whether the Central Party will also recommend the Workers' Party to increase its taxes and taxes even more in the next few years, so that both parties come to the same level.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1832	It is true that the Centre Party has a comprehensive tax regime. It's a tax scheme where the most important people are going to contribute the most. Those who have the least will get more in tax laws and also avoid very deterrent taxes. It is this that is a bit of a problem for the Progress Party: they have these big words about how much tax relief they are for, but one knows that when they have given the tax credit to those who have the most from before, it is prying out somewhere – and then it is prying through increased taxes. Over six billion. During the period in which the Party has been in government, kr has come in the form of increased fees. 2 billion. kr of only one industry shall be charged as pure levies during the next year’s budget. Increasing the fees in the way the Progress Party is now proposing is not very solidarity, is not very social and, in the case we are faced with in the case of the sugar levy, is directly hostile to business.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1839	Several in the districts waiting for a new tribal route have noticed that the Central Party will cut the New Roads allocations by 200 million. kr. It will provide a more inefficient road construction. In addition, we see that the Center Party will weaken Avinor's economy by 150 million. kr, which may affect the operation of the short-range network in the next round. In addition to the Central Party's document 8, which is now being discussed in the Stortinget, it comes to hand over the duty-free sale to the Vinmonopolet. This could, in the next round, further weaken the basis for financing the short-distance network. Does the Central Party think it's good district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1844	Our approach in the transport sector seems to us to be good district policy. I am actually a little surprised that the representative Rodum Agdestein is making himself go up and present such a line. After all, here we are facing a government that has scrapped the main collective effort of the Trondelags over decades, namely the electrification of the Tronder and Meråker tracks, a project that was completed, which was prioritised into the red-green national transport plan in 2013, where construction was to start now in the autumn, and where there are zero dollars in the budget. One now shuts down the planning organisation and spreads it to all winners. They may not conclude the contracts relating to further planning. One has simply buried the most important transport policy project in Trøndelag. Then I think it'll be a little strange to stand here and ask for the Central Party's regional policy commitment on the transport side.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1852	More floods, rains and races show us that climate change is going on, as many communities already notice on the body. If we are to carry out a green shift, municipalities and counties must be able to finance both climate adaptation and local climate action. I think the Center Party might have been as surprised as we were when we saw that the government presented a government budget where the appropriations for race and flood protection were halved. This is probably an area where we have to expect in the future to have to spend even more money on the table, something that SV adds to its alternative budget, which prioritises the many instead of the few. I wonder if this is something that the Center Party has also prioritised and will give priority to the future, along with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1859	This will be an important topic. Climate policy is thus becoming important on two fronts. One is to implement climate action that actually has an impact. The centre party is concerned about having a practical climate policy, which is not full of symbols, but one with effective measures. That is why, in our alternative budget, we have prioritised the CCS projects – the carbon capture and storage projects – which are now completely under way and should be implemented. We have also prioritised CO 2 funds for heavy transport in particular. In addition, I agree that what can be both adaptation and prevention is very important. In the years to come, the allocations relating to floods and gliding are absolutely crucial, and it also appears that the centre party is important to give priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1869	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1874	If the differences increase today, we'll have a colder society tomorrow. The government that now has the power leads a policy for the few and not for the many. The draft budget that was delivered earlier this autumn is a very clear proof of that. The government is correcting the tax system for the economic elite. The systematic removal or reduction of taxes on what the richest picks up their income, while ordinary people do not notice anything about taxes, or even, that some yard workers and others who have lost their jobs in the West have experienced, receive tax increases on termination benefits. The government, at the same time as it appears to be strong in the belief that the richest offer more if they become even richer, has, in the field after field, implemented unsocial cuts against the people who have the least in our country. So the idea seems to be that exactly the poorest provide more if they just get poorer. It's a strange logic. In addition to rigging the tax system and cutting off those who have the least, this government has systematically changed the balance of power in the labour market, in favour of the bosses and the owners and in favour of the employees and the trade union movement. We also see that the government is proposing that some of the most important resources for the future be concentrated on fewer hands, such as the fish, where one is now in a very big and important political battle over whether these resources will in the future belong to a few, quota barons and trawlers, or the people of the coast. Furthermore, this government – and it has even been reinforced by the civil budget agreement – has pursued a welfare policy in a number of areas, which are correctly camouflaged as so-called red tape and more effective. But we now see that in the field after field, the offer to the residents, within hospitals, within higher education — and within prisons, where today’s report from the Directorate of Criminal Welfare is dramatic and should get the alarm clocks to call the government. To this end, SV has proposed a budget for the many and not for the few, a budget for heavy redistribution, where ordinary employees come out in plus, while the economic elite is asked to bear the heaviest burdens in times of heavy burden. It must be a cross of thought for the Right and the Advance Party that it is SV that is the taxable party for the low-wages. We have provided a budget that puts those who have the least, first, that strengthens the fight against crime at work and reverses the power of the labour force, that facilitates that resources belong to the people and not a few to the top, that rejects the juxtaposition that leads to welfare protection and that will strengthen the welfare of the community instead of privatisation and welfare gains. A policy for the many, and not for the few, must also mean a green environmental policy. There are few who serve on the destruction of our environment, and there are many who lose. We need a new energy policy, and the revelations around Goliath recently have shown how meaningless it is, for example. is to continue subsidising the profits of oil companies instead of investing the large amount of money in what will become tomorrow's jobs. Under this government, climate change efforts have stopped, developments in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions have flattened, and we see that even the targets have now been left to Brussels. We need a re-priority in the transport area where instead of spending more money on people who have a lot of money to buy expensive Porsches, spend money on strengthening the environmentally friendly transport options, that is zero-emission cars, and that is also real investment in public transport. Finally, our draft budget is a draft budget for the many and not for the few also internationally. There has been a lot of talk about helping refugees where they are, but the great humanitarian promise that is needed is not to be seen in the government's draft budget – it is present in the SV's alternative budget. The same is true of a sharp increase in climate aid and an effort for women internationally affected by the new policies of the United States and the so-called ‘gag rule’ and the intervention against women’s bodies and their freedom. In the end, our budget is also a budget to strengthen the defence of Norway – less money for war abroad and destroy fighter aircraft, more for army, home security and maritime defence than the right. So the Right Party and the Advance Party can see that it is SV that is the tax party for the many, while they are the tax parties for the few, and that SV is a better defense friend than the red-green government. It must be a source of reflection for blue staging representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1897	In any case, it's a source of a line chord change - it's a line chord change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1902	I look forward to constructive cooperation with SV in Stortinget over the next four years. We have already shown that we are jointly using the political space to push the policy in the right direction, for example in the case of daily physical activity in school. I come from the position of rapporteur in Ski. Here, together with SV, we have worked actively to increase the knowledge of sexual abuse, both among our own employees and not least among children and young people. Learning about your own body, sexuality and demarcation can help prevent and prevent sexual abuse against children. We in the Workers' Party therefore believe it is time to introduce education in the frontier setting in kindergarten, primary and secondary schools. I noticed that SV has also put off another 70 million kroner. in the fight against sexual abuse in its alternative budget. My question to Lysbakken is: Will SV, together with the Workers' Party, push the policy in the right direction in an area where the government does not deliver well enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1911	The answer to that is yes, and I think it is important to note that when the red-green government went off, a great deal of work was started on sexual harassment. The Skjeie Committee, which had gone through Norwegian gender equality policy, had also presented a number of concrete proposals on what could be done. Very little of it has been followed up by this government. These include: measures from the investigation we are now proposing to carry out, which I believe the Workers' Party in its proposal is also proposing. So there I think it's a lot to agree on. I also agree with the representative that it is particularly important to start school. The large, comprehensive work on bullying, which is widely agreed by the Storting to be carried out at school, must also be followed up by similar efforts to prevent sexual harassment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1916	In February this year, the health director said that the number of unemployed persons aged between 20 and 29 has doubled in the last 10 years. He went on to say that the problem starts with a drop-out in high school. With the absence limit, the absence has decreased by 40 pst. in the previous school year, but still SV is consistent. Will the representative acknowledge that the absence limit is working, as the principals themselves say?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1921	The government has launched a three-year evaluation of the absence limit, and I do not expect the Right to conclude until they have received the evaluation they have ordered. I look forward to getting it, I'm open to developing policies and looking at the results, but we have to get the jam on the table first. With all due respect, there is no basis for establishing what the representative determines, nor for saying anything that is certain about the causal link today. Among other things, we have Seeing that high school absences have fallen for several years. What we can be quite sure of, I think, is that if we had implemented the very rigid limit of absence that the government first proposed, this would have gone wrong. Fortunately, Stortinget intervened, among others. on the initiative of SV, and was given a softer rule. And then we'll see how it's turned out. The crucial thing for us is how it goes with those groups where the dropout is high. We will follow the policy that is best for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1932	The government wallpapers the country with highways and new asphalt: I have to say a thousand thanks to SV for the compliment. It's heating up a FrP heart. SV writes in his alternative budget that it is a budget for the many and not for the few. I fully agree with them, but it is precisely because SV's fee increases of over 20 billion. kr will hit many, including most people. SV uses the drivers as dairy cows. The one-off charge on the car is increasing, and the tax on petrol and diesel is increasing by 50 cents and 1 cents respectively. This will affect business, but also many families with children who already have a tight economy. Does the party see the consequences of its unsocial tax increases, and how much extra does a family of children have to earn to serve these increases?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1940	That would have been a good point if that was right, but the calculation in our budget is very clear that the premise for the question is wrong. We have been given those calculations for sure in a letter from Siv Jensen, so I expect that the Progress Party also trusts them. They show very clearly that for the typical employee with an income of less than NOK 600 000, when you calculate both taxes and taxes, you will get into plus, i.e. significantly better with the SV's budget proposal than with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1945	There is a great deal of pressure in hospitals, both in centralisation and in privatisation. We have free treatment options, we have a high percentage of input-driven funding, and we have more purchases through tough offers that drive this forward. In addition, something called neutral VAT has been introduced in healthcare professionals from 1 January 2017. This means that health professionals are compensated for VAT on the purchase of private services – in order to stimulate hospitals not to operate services under their own control, but instead to purchase services from private individuals. This has not been so much about politics, but it is a very important matter, and my question is quite simple: What does SV mean about the introduction of neutral VAT in our healthcare providers?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1950	There's an SV and the Center Party. SV is against the introduction of neutral VAT. We see it primarily as a measure to promote the privatisation of health services. It's simply an opening for large groups to enter and access what's a potential billion market, that's another area where tax money is going to go to private profit for a few. So neutral VAT is definitely a policy for the few and not for the many. That's why we're against it. There is also reason to ask whether it will be particularly effective, because many health businesses are organising, for example, today. cleaning and canteen services themselves. One will then be able to end up in a situation of a competitive outsourcing that creates increased bureaucracy, and if there is one thing we don't need in health companies now, there is even more bureaucracy. We need the money to reach the patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1955	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1960	When Left made its alternative state budget this year – at record speed, we thought it was seaworthy – our starting point was the challenges that the perspective announcement actually says Norway is facing. It's both that we have to create more jobs, and that we have to create more green jobs within the new industries. We must tackle poverty and increase inequalities, but we must also ensure that the sustainability of our welfare state is safeguarded. Then one has to dare to take some tough priorities in the budgets. That's what the whole Biggest agreed that was the big challenges, and that the whole Biggest gathered around like the things we should do with the budgets ahead, and we've provided our answer to those challenges. These challenges are not so outstanding in this debate today as what I think they should have been. One of the big bets in the Left's alternative budget is about school. It's about investing in the things that we know we need in the future: more further and further education of teachers, so that all students can feel confident that they enter a classroom where they have a qualified teacher who can be taught in. That's the most important input we can do to get to a good school. It says all the research. We are also expanding the childcare facility, so that 7 000 more children have free core time. This has been one of the most important issues for the Left, namely what the previous government's poverty message stated: that what is most important to combat the poverty trap and poverty among children is to give access to kindergarten. Then it is important for us that those who have the worst income get free core time and lower prices. That's the most effective thing we can do to that particular group. The left also wants to increase the number of quota refugees we accept. By means of the budget agreement, we agreed that we would double the number of quota refugees, to 1000 more. Norway is on the international front, not only per capita, but also per figure compared to other countries. It's not that often we hear it boasts that we actually have that role, but we have now got that role – both through the comparisons we've had before, and through the budgetary agreement that left hand. Another important contribution to the Left's alternative budget, for which we have also had an impact through the conciliation, is more than 150 million. kr more to a cultural promise. Lifting cultural memory protection, but also the artistic economy, has been important for the Left, and over several years we have increased the grant schemes, the artist-assistance schemes and the schemes that we know artists have been most concerned about finding good solutions. We promise the free cultural field, we promise the language and book field, and we see how we can contribute to strengthening culture within the responsible frameworks we have. But the third big bet that matters to the Left, on which we went to the elections, is to make it easier for entrepreneurs to create jobs. Research reports presented during the election campaign showed that most of the job creation takes place in small businesses, and most of the value creation also takes place in small businesses. It is those with less than 10 employees who have the highest output per employee, and that is where most new jobs are created. Therefore, it has been important for us that we now, in the agreement, got close to a twenty-fold increase in the option tax when it goes from 30,000 to 500,000. It's a tool to get businesses into growth, it's a tool to get more employees and more good heads into growth businesses, but also to get ownership of the innovations they're involved in. We strengthen the Sivas catapult system and Sivas incubators, as we know is a targeted system to create more jobs and more businesses. We have a strong innovation effort and commitment to enabling technologies, which enable new models to be developed, including within new purchasing systems. Within climate and environment, a change in pace has been implemented over the last five–six years, both with targets and with measures that actually work. The Labour Party representative said in the debate that when the red-greens crashed, there was nothing but joy and joy in the feedback from the environmental organisations when they provided budgets, and now it was a full crisis. Then we've probably heard very different tones. It is quite clear that we have now made a major contribution to key measures that are going to bring the giants forward in order to achieve the climate objectives. And in 2009 they heard Nature and Youth say that ‘the red-green laws and lies’, and that ‘this is not a budget for an environmentally friendly Norway’, in 2010, the Bellona Nest leader said that ‘the alarm bells are ringing for the climate, but the government is not listening to’, and the WWF said in 2010 that climate policy was out of control, and that the government made it absolutely impossible to achieve climate goals. We who have sat down and read the persuasion debates over the last few years, see that in the red-greens it was just the sale of climate quotas that was a theme. Now there's a bold target for communication, we've got a green tax shift that's much stronger than we've had in many periods, and we see that we're now able to find tools that really work. We see that emissions are going down – not because the economy is going down, because the economy is going up, but we see that we have effects within the instrument that we have to use. Norway is also at the forefront of changing the car park. So you've set yourself some bold goals. We are also now beginning to have a collective effort that will make major changes for Norway on the climate and environment side. I'm quite proud of how far we've come, but there's still a great job to do. We're going to admit that, but we're going to have to admit that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1983	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1988	‘The draft budget of the Left will cost hospitals more than $1 billion. At the same time, they jump over a fixed arrangement in the knee. Now it is up to Stortingen to take responsibility for the whole of the health budget." This was the Medical Association's reaction to the Left's alternative budget, and Skei Grande didn't pay a lot of attention to health in his post. Both in 2017 and 2016, Left got the blues to cut half a billion to our hospitals. The reason was that the money should go to public health and prevention. When the budget agreement is now a fact, there was no more hospitalization, and the preventive effort was summed up in increasing the sugar levy with the various outcomes it provides for both healthy and unhealthy food. And physical activity in school is the left-hand side. How does the representative Schei Grande think that less money for hospitals and less effective prevention enable us to meet the growth of lifestyle diseases and at the same time an ageing population, as described in the perspective statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e1995	The health priorities of the left have been to lift alcohol and psychiatry — which have been poorly prioritised by very many governments over a very long period of time — and public health perspectives. It is funny to get a question from the Workers' Party about the sugar charge, which I think the Workers' Party also had in its alternative budget, so it is strange to see how you turn around here on the argument. We also think that there are parts of the hospitals that can be operated in a better way than today. It's not like all the ways you work with the budgets in the hospitals are perfect. That is why we have put in a more efficient way there, as we have put in all other sectors as well. It gives us room for priority, it gives us room to give priority to the very weakest patients, and that's why drugs and psychiatry have been the main priority of the Left, along with the public health perspective that the representative points out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2002	The situation in Norwegian criminal justice is critical. There is a warning about a crew that is so low that it goes beyond safety. We are told of unsustainably high labour pressure, temporary sick leave, and that there is no economy to call in temporary workers in case of illness. Prisoners are becoming increasingly locked up and isolated, and violence and threats are increasing. We have seen this development over several years. Nevertheless, the Left has been involved in cutting off the criminal justice system repeatedly. That's $150 million. kr has been cut since 2013. Today it became known that the Director of the Directorate of Criminal Welfare believes that the budgetary situation for 2018 is so critical that one has asked for a crisis meeting with the Ministry of Justice. The Minister of Justice's answer in Bergen's Official Journal is that her reality description is not correct, because he sees no negative development. Is the representative of the Skei Grande mostly relying on the alerts from the criminal services themselves or on the reply from the Minister of Justice? And why have you been on the cuts when we need to do something about the situation in prison?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2007	The cuts referred to here are the efficiency rate that has been introduced into all units of the state, and I believe that the state units also have great opportunities to actually implement. So it's assumed that there are some parts of the Norwegian government that don't have it going on. That is why I am very pleased that the Council of State today said that he would put down a commission to go through the entire criminal field to get facts on the table also about development. If it turns out that better action is needed to strengthen criminal justice, the Left would like to join in to fix it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2012	Let me turn my attention to an international theme. No one has talked about anything internationally today. The situation in the Mediterranean is almost as bad as it was two years ago. 150,000 refugees have been crossing the sea only in the course of the year. 2,700 have drowned. Nevertheless, this government will withdraw the Norwegian lifeboat. In two years the Norwegian rescue aid has picked up 40,000 people, and when that boat is to be taken back, it is not such that the refugees stop crossing the sea. What happens is that more people will drown. I want to ask the representative Skei Grande: why is it that the Left is on the side of the Progress Party in this matter, which does not want to contribute anything humanitarian in the Mediterranean, and why will the Left not be on our side and support it during one of the most effective humanitarian operations we can do... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2018	It's a little strange to say that Norway doesn't put up with anything humanitarian in this crisis, because we have, I guess, actually done that. I don't think we're going to talk about that job on the boat that Norwegian humanitarians do, and all that we've actually contributed to. I don't think we should talk about the job that the Norwegians have done. With regard to this rescue contribution, Norway has set up the times we have been asked to do so, and now there is another situation. That everything is similar to the Mediterranean now in relation to what it was like one to two years ago, I don't think everyone looks like the truth. The left wants to be on that layer. That's why we've doubled the number of quota refugees, because what we think is an important part of meeting this, and we think it's important to make sure that you get a majority of good law changes here in Norway too. Then I had hoped that SV said that here we are a team. I guess we don't make up exactly a majority of the Storting to do that job, but I'd like to join that team to make those changes. But claiming that we're not doing anything, I think it's a bad start for a dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2027	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2032	I want to start my contribution in this budget debate by stressing what the chairman of the finance committee, Nikolai Astrup, said in his speech. He pointed out very clearly that they didn't solve all the problems with a little bit more money. Therefore, it is important that we look at how we can achieve a renewal, how we can think about new things and get more out of the resources of the country that may have the simplest government budget in the world to handle. I also think that the example of New Roads used here in today's debate is a good example of how we can get more and better implementation of the road by thinking again. I would also like to thank the Right, the Progress Party and the Left for good negotiations and for a good result. It's a great pleasure that we have a teacher's norm, a teacher's norm that will make school better, and not least will help the most vulnerable students. I'll actually call it the greatest educational policy reform in this millennium. Someone describes this as one for the Christian People's Party, but the most important thing here is that this is something that the teachers want. The students want it. Parents point to this as the most important thing we can do now. So now this teaching norm is not just words or airy visions. Now it is a concrete policy. It shall be implemented in the 2018 budget with full effect from 2019. I would like to thank the Federation of Education, but also the party SV, which has supported the Christian People's Party in this very thought. I noticed what the Prime Minister said in his reply today on one of the lines. She pointed out, among other things: when there was a gallant sugar charge, how the bulk of the dumps looked at it. It shows that broad alliances are important, and good support players are important to bring about good change. Then it has been important for the Christian People's Party to ensure a better family policy. We have, among other things: greater flexibility in cash support. Now it's like you have to choose either kindergarten or just cash support. This budget gives you a better combination. Perhaps a couple of days of cash support and three days of kindergarten. Families get a greater flexibility and freedom of choice. Once again, I see that the Workers' Party is out for cash support. Today, city councillors in Oslo, Johansen, are clearly at odds with her – a system that gives families freedom of choice and flexibility. I found it difficult to understand the great resistance that is against it. We are also pleased that we have been given increased leave for twin parents, so that both mother and father can be home with the child in the first four months. Multiple parents also receive extended leave. The Christian People's Party says no to twins, and it is important that we follow our principle of politics that makes it easier for parents with great care tasks to be able to care for their children. So there is a particular matter that I am very pleased that we have got in place in this budget: The government is expanding the care allowance scheme for one year back in time, with implementation in October 2017. It was an extension that we gave us positive, but the abbreviation of 66 pst. We thought we were crazy, also because one then looked at the care allowance scheme as a social security scheme. That has never been done by the Christian People's Party. We've seen it as an arrangement where one gets paid for the care that you do, because you think it's the best thing for your child. That is why I very much welcome the solution that we see in the budget. Finally, for the Christian People's Party, it has also been important to have a perspective beyond our own country. That is why we have increased the budget to 1 pst. of GNI in the case of development aid. We have also enabled us to accept more quota refugees. The last line circling just shows the need for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2055	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2060	The representative Hareide spent a lot of time on the teaching norm in his article. It shows a weakened government that has given the Christian People's Party considerable concessions. That's good. The Christian People's Party has not been implemented, is to set up a legal committee to assess the ability of municipalities to tax works and use. Instead, the industrial communities are eaten off with a time-limited compensation that does not cover the loss. Lindås municipality in my and the representative of Hareide's home state, Hordaland, is the host of the Mongstad refinery. They're losing 150 million. kr that the Christian People's Party has agreed with the majority to remove the tax option of municipalities on works and use. Hammerfest municipality, on the other hand, which hosts the Snow White plant, retains large tax revenues because the plant is subject to special tax rules for petroleum installations. That's why I'm very curious about what's the big difference between the Melkøya plant and the Mongstad refinery. I wonder why the representative Hareide is part of a majority that deprives municipalities of tax law, which randomly affects municipalities without an investigation, without a legislative selection and without the preparation of such huge changes always undergoes in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2074	It is true that the Christian People's Party had a different view of machine taxes; we would like to keep it. In the negotiations, we have gained a great deal of insight, but there are some things we can't work on. So I also thought it was well worth listening to what the Minister of Finance said in his statement about that very matter. She pointed out the compensation provided to municipalities. That's why it's not right that Lindås municipality will lose 150 million. I'll take care of it. I'm also going to admit that even though the Christian People's Party has had a stand where we wanted to keep machine taxes, there have also been problematic aspects of that tax. Among other things, the delimitation of which installations are part of that tax, and which installations are not, is problematic. We wanted to keep the machine tax, but we have negotiated until a budget agreement that I think is good, and we are very happy that compensation of a lasting nature was given to the municipalities that are the framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2081	It's a little bit about the environment, to a former Environment Minister: the Christian People's Party has a pretty good environmental policy on paper. They write, among other things, in its work programme that ‘with today’s registered emissions cut, we are facing a heating of 2,7 degrees’. And a little further: «KrF has a vision that Norway will become a zero-emission society and go into the brink to phase out fossil energy sources such as coal, oil and gas». We know that the transport sector plays a crucial role in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and in Norway shipping is very important. Norwegian environments are world leaders in low and zero emission technologies on ships. The Christian People's Party does not have a member of the Transport Committee, but before Christmas an important matter comes to the Chamber, namely an attitude based on two Document 8 proposals, one from the Workers' Party and one from SV, on environmental weight in the new coastal route offer. On this issue, the wishes of heavy operators in the industry are well ahead of the government’s tendering requirements. I would like to ask Mr Hareide if the Christian People's Party will be involved in setting new, more stringent environmental requirements for the coastal route offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2090	I'm supposed to be so honest to say that when, as Minister of Environmental Protection, I gave a prize to Arne Nävra, I didn't expect us to meet in a line exchange in Stortinget, but that's what fate has become. That's a good question, because just getting rid of it is important, and I've looked at the suggestions that are now in the Stortinget. Then it's like my experience with how we're going to get rid of it is that we have to make good demands for the actors that are involved. That's why this is a proposal that I think is exciting to look at, but it's also how I believe this offer statement has already happened, so I need to know the consequences of changing it before I can tell if the Christian People's Party is willing to look at it, or if we think it's not relevant. But it's just an offer that's the best and most reasonable way to make good environmental demands.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2097	If we go back in time, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party had a common desire to strengthen the conditions of commuting in Norway. It was a good center thing, which we also drove in the center government. Now it has become for some reason that when the Christian People's Party is with the Right and the Advance Party, it is to do the most punishment possible. Why does the Christian People's Party now think it is very reasonable to tighten up for the commuters, and that a regular commuter has received NOK 8,400 less in deductions in the four years of the Christian People's Party has supported the government? In the budget agreement, there were new, large tax incentives for commuters and people who had to live away, among others. long-distance drivers. Now you can read in the media that it has changed, but there is no change in the financial situation, and there are no proposals on the table. Where does that change come from? Funding has been put in, it is for long-distance transport drivers to tighten up, and that is what we are going to adopt today. So can the representative find out where it says?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2104	In the course of the four years, the Christian People's Party has been on a tax bill of about 22 billion. kr. So we've delivered 22 billion. kr more in tax relief than we promised our voters. It is true that we are involved in some tax incentives. It's completely natural. When it comes to commuting, it has been reduced in some budgetary agreements. If we look at the budgetary units from last year, we increase the amount of commuting from the budget agreement we entered into in the budget for 2017. So the story that the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, is presenting here is not clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2111	For the Christian People's Party, it is unfortunately a little bit too unambiguous, because the bottom line has been reduced by NOK 8400, also adjusted by the deduction from NOK 1.50 to NOK 1.55 per kilometer as one did last year, but not this year. One has had to take it back this year. My question concerns the system of renting and dieting, which the Christian People's Party and the Left have been able to negotiate, that we should now tighten up and tax people who are dieting harder. There have been strong reactions. Among other things, truck drivers have been out saying that it is going to hit them and their income vigorously. It has been said in the media that this should still not be implemented. Why, then, is there no proposal for the financial position today? It is today that it is to be adopted. Is it true that tax cuts should not be made for those who have to stay a lot away because of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2119	Obviously, the unity we have presented, and the new proposals we have put on the table, cost. We're forced to have coverage for it. It has found the four parties to a common agreement about, and it puts the Christian People's Party behind. Of course, what the four parties have stood behind will be done. I want to say that when it relates to the shuttle deduction, there is clearly a two-part assessment of it. We also know that we want to contribute to more collective use. Clearly, some assessments suggest that this issue is not as simple today as it was before – from a purely climate and environmental perspective. That is why it is true that we have made the commuting system better for a few years, but we have also had tightenings – and the Christian People's Party is behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2126	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2131	Norway is facing major challenges in financing welfare in the future. However, we have a good starting point because the differences in Norway are relatively small compared to most other countries, and this is how we want it to be in the future. Solid government finances, productive business and a highly educated workforce make us well equipped to meet the challenges that are coming. Sustainable welfare schemes require efforts in several areas. Of those outside the labour market, a significant proportion receive public benefits. If well-being is to be sustainable, it depends on more people being able to support themselves through their own income. High employment generates increased Community tax revenue and reduces the cost of public benefits. Ageing of the population makes this extra important. Now unemployment is falling for the twelfth month in a row, and employment is growing. The proportion employed has fallen from 2008, partly due to recession, partly due to population ageing and partly due to increased immigration, to mention some examples. We're on the right track, but not far enough. For some groups, the situation is worrying, and for society as a whole, employment needs to rise. This is my main focus on labour market policy. That is why, in the 2018 budget, we have proposed strengthening efforts towards vulnerable groups. We launched a new national youth effort in 2017. We're proposing to increase the appropriation by 70 million. kr to continue the effort in 2018. The government’s new youth effort has been allocated 100 million. kr in 2018. The effort represents a systematic strengthening of the follow-up of young people who are out of work and education after eight weeks and are more obligatory than the previous guarantees. The government proposes to grant 37 million. for increased efforts for the long-term unemployed. This is a continuation of the efforts made in the revised national budget this year. This comes into force earlier than the previous warranty did. Increased transition to work is a central objective behind the changes in the legislation on redundancy payments and is followed up in the draft budget. The duration is limited, but the period of an AAP recipient may be a job seeker is extended. Increased resources for follow-up activities are also important to support the positive effects of regulatory changes. The government, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, proposes to increase the level of action for permanent work by 300 places in 2018. It gives an estimated total level of 10000 places. In addition, about 75 places will be created for a three-year trial of permanent work under municipal authority. This will reduce the waiting time and help more people in the target population to achieve their residual working capacity. The social security network shall contribute to providing everyone with the necessary assistance to participate in the labour market and in other Community arenas of society. An important part of strengthening the social security network is precisely measures to facilitate people with disabilities in working life, education and daily life. The Government strengthens this area in the 2018 budget. Norway is facing a major shift in both the private and public sectors. We can no longer rely on oil revenues to the same extent as before. We're going through a green shift. We need more businesses in the private sector that pay taxes and contribute to the community. It imposes on us today a great responsibility to contribute to this in order to ensure the opportunities of future generations for the same well-being that we ourselves so much appreciate. The budget presented by the government and the changes that have taken place as a result of the budgetary negotiations here in Stortingen are just making this right.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2152	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2157	In the 2018 budget, the government proposes a temporary arrangement for foster parents on day-care and work-relief payments in such a way that they do not lose sight of being foster parents. But on 11 May this year, the Stortinget made a unanimous and perfectly crystal clear decision that no insured person, nor illiterate, leftover or lone parent, should lose weight to being a foster parent. So why does the government fail to follow up the unanimous decision of the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2162	The government follows up the decision of the Storting against foster parents. The decision was taken to avoid shortening parental compensation. The issues that arose a lot in the debate, and which were also included in the Stortinget, were particularly related to foster parents who are on redundancy pay, but also foster parents who are on a day-to-day basis. As I pointed out when we discussed this before the summer, these changes require both regulatory changes and budgetary changes. What the government has now done is that we have proposed to amend the legislation for foster parents on day-to-day payments and redundancy payments, so that they are not unduly curtailed, as many of the examples showed. In addition, the government has reduced its own sample to look at the framework conditions of foster parents, and the government will return to the Grand Duchy with a comprehensive overview of the income, remuneration and framework conditions of foster parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2169	On 11 May 2017, the Grand total adopted the following: ‘The government is requesting the prompt introduction of a transitional scheme for foster parents for social security benefits, which ensures that they do not lose out financially on being foster parents.’ So it's the government that has chosen, on its own, that many foster parents continue to lose social security benefits, despite a big decision on the opposite. But the Storting said we were on 11 May. We said that a transitional arrangement should come as soon as possible, and neither has the government followed up – seven and a half months is not soon. So my question is, will the Council of State, in the interests of the foster parents who have now lost large amounts of government's tenacity, consider giving the amputated transitional regime retroactive effect from May 11, when the Storting made its unanimous decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2181	The government will return to Stortinget as soon as possible. As I said in my previous reply, and as I also said in previous debates before the summer, these changes would require both legislative changes and budgetary changes. The budget has now arrived, money has been put into the budget, and the legislation has been amended in such a way that, as the Stortinget also provided, the foster parents who are on redundancy pay or day-to-day pay are not curtailed. As far as framework conditions are concerned, the government has – as I said in my previous reply – reduced a separate sample to look at the framework conditions for foster parents. The government will therefore come back to the Storting, so that the Storting can discuss the framework conditions in a whole. For the government, it was important to make the changes that went on redundancy payments and daily allowances, now, and then we will come back to making other changes to the framework conditions for foster parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2189	On the right is the biggest supporter of the ideology of the free movement of workers between EEA countries. This is simply because this ideology provides cheaper labour. The reason is logical: in the case of free movement, the labour market changes by increasing labour supply beyond demand. Employment payments are being pushed downwards, first in practical occupations, later in more and more occupations. In addition, the weakest in the labour market are most affected – people with only partial working capacity or young people who have not completed secondary education. Nearly 100,000 people under the age of 30 are now neither at work nor in education, and the Council of State has an almost impossible job. The free flow has more negative consequences than the state council has money to do. My question is, why can't the Right honestly tell you about the consequences of free flow with the differences in income for those who work?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2196	The right has never hidden the fact that free movement also poses challenges. We know that crime, among other things: is cross-border. There is also a background for the Prime Minister’s own initiative towards the EU to put a stronger pressure on the crime of working life affecting countries in common. So we've never hidden it. What surprises me more may well be that the Centre Party is denying the benefits of free movement for Norway. The EU is the main market for Norwegian enterprises. Without access to the internal market, Norwegian companies would have had significantly greater challenges than they have today. I believe that for most of the Nordics it is the advantage of free movement, even when you are a regular traveler and tourist. But we have to fight the negative sides. We do so in partnership with our neighbouring countries and with our partners in the EU. In addition — in the number of young people out of work and education — it has stabilised, as opposed to under the previous government, when it increased dramatically.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2206	Black labour and work-life crime are destroying the foundation of our society. We see that the problem gets bigger, more complex and involves more and more industries. Police are warning about more and more organized crime and a brutalised working life. Professional units notify me of multiple unprofessional operators. In the budget, however, the government has decided not to add a single penny to increase efforts in this area. One would almost think that nothing had changed. My question is, how does the Minister of Labour view this problem, and how big and challenging is it for society in her eyes?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2213	This government, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, has made a significant effort to combat the crime of working life in the years we have worked together. The government has strengthened on its own initiative, including with the cooperation parties. the establishment of a number of centres for the prevention of crime at work. We have established several SUA offices. But it's important to remember that work against work crime is not just about dollars and cents. It also does, but it is also much about laws and regulations, about cooperation between offices across countries, between labour inspectorates in different countries, about skills sharing and information sharing. All of this is being done by the government, among others. through our strategy against the crime of employment that we have undertaken with the social partners, and through the work we are doing internationally, now at the latest with the initiative that the Prime Minister has taken on behalf of the EU. Labour crime must be combated in many areas. Whoever thinks this is just about heads and ears, is not going to be able to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2221	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2226	I share a lot of the reality description to councillor Hauglie, who had the word here instead. In many ways, it also seems that the Council of State understands the seriousness of the future's well-being and capacity in it, but when you look at the budget's bets, it's not entirely in line with the reality we're hearing. It must either mean that the Council of State has lost in the internal discussions, or that the budget is marked by classic right-wing thinking that market forces and the individual do not really need the efforts of the state or the uplifted community. The government’s perspective message says that a ‘large and competent workforce is our most important resource’, and that is something I fully agree with. I am particularly concerned about two developments: the first is that in the last four years we have had the largest case of employment in Europe. We are almost the only country that has suffered such a marked decline. The other thing that worries me is that our working life is not safe and secure for everyone. To take the first step, the level of employment has fallen over time. And a group that is particularly poor in our working life is young men. It should hardly have been a group that was more in demand in the workplace. But there are fewer young men than before who are at work, there are more people who are on a day's payroll, more who are receiving social assistance, and more who are on a disembark. In total, there are 70,000 young people out of work and education, and this year there will be twice as many new young people out of work as in 2013. It's serious for those who owe it, but it's also very serious for our society, especially at a time when we need more people working. Many of the young people that we're talking about tend to have a low level of competence. Some of them also have health problems. But the very many of them have in common is that they want to work. Earlier this year, the NRK was able to tell about Rebekah from Rogaland. She's 22 years old. She's been on redundancy money for years, and she says, "I'm between losing my job and coming to work." I don't want to be idle. I'll fight it against it at the end. The answer from the government in the budget to those who have the weakest connection to working life is that they are at risk of becoming the whole forest. They have proposed cutting daily pay, suggesting cutting in action places. What I mean is the wrong way to go. In order to get more people to work, the Labour Party in its Alternative State Budget proposes three things in particular. First of all, we are investing massively in competence. We want to raise professional skills and invest in apprenticeships and propose to start a skills reform for the labour market. Secondly, we are committed to getting more people to work and less to social security. This means, among other things: that we want to increase the use of wage increases, that we want to create more labour market measures, and that we want to start an activity and job reform for young people who are facing a graded disability. Thirdly, we are committed to creating more jobs in the business community. This means, among other things: bets as a marine value-creating programme, strengthening the clustering programme, investing in bioeconomy and having a strong commitment to environmental technology, not to say providing a robust framework for those working in technology development linked to carbon capture and storage. The other thing I want to mention is the lack of safety in work, which too many people experience. Last Friday I joined LO in Rogaland to discuss what their members see and experience, and here are two important concerns from them: the only thing is that the level of accommodation increases, not only in construction but also in health and care. It has meaning for carelessness, it has meaning for skills building, and in the long term it also has meaning for what kind of work we get. The second thing they did is that unprofessional actors are about to look up and get involved in parts of our working life. Then we need a proper effort to get rid of it. In reality, the government does not propose any new initiatives, while the Labour Party proposes to increase the funds to both the Labour Inspectorate, the Petroleum Inspectorate and the A-Krim Centres. Together with proposals currently under consideration in the Grand Duchy, such as a temporary ban on hired persons, this will make working life safer and better for more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2245	Since the last financial debate, there has been a choice. Now all the parties are trying to figure out why it went well, or why it went bad, at the election – or how it could go even better. There are certainly many reasons why things are going the way they are. It may be that the gentlest win the election, as party leader Jonas Gahr Støre said, or there may be something about the business cycle, or very strange. But I think one thing that is quite important is that the policy you pursue year after year is something that is recognizable by a party and by a government. Having a recognizable policy can sometimes be a little boring, because in all matters there are a number of debates that are going on at all times, always new proposals for what to do, what to put in – in this case at school – always new, exciting ideas to debate. One of the things that the government held on to during the last four years, and is going to hold on to even during this four-year period, is a systematic commitment to school, knowledge and competence. The reason is that so many of the debates going on in this room have knowledge and school as one of the most important components. When you talk about creating tomorrow's jobs, business development and the work to create new jobs are just about knowledge and school. If you have a discussion about increasing differences both in Norway and in the world, one of the most targeted tools we have to give everyone a real opportunity to rise, is a good school for everyone. When talking about integration into a society that becomes more diverse, a school that gathers across different dividing lines, but not least where there is no background, skin color, religion or ethnicity that determines what kind of professional results you get, is one of the most important. When we talk about exclusion and that we have too many people in Norway who are not part of the world of work, it's hard to think of something that's more important to fix this in the long term than school and knowledge. There's a lot of school that can do, and all the teachers and all the schools know that there's a lot we expect the school to do too. But one of the important things to do is to be able to hold on to the very basic mission of the school: to give the students the knowledge and skills they need to survive the rest of their lives, whether they want to become a tradesman or a lawyer. The main effort of the government in recent years has been early schooling. This is also followed up by the government's budget, through teacher specialists, through the recruitment norm in kindergarten, through a statutory obligation so that municipalities have good systems for those who go through kindergarten and school. It must also be said that there was a teaching standard in the budget agreement – I was in the paper commission, so I had nothing to do with it – but it might not have been exactly the right preferred model. But once it's agreed, it's also worth saying that strengthening with more teachers for the youngest students can be used, if you do it in a good way, just to strengthen early efforts. Another thing that the government has prioritised, not just when it's popular, not just when it's a lot of talk about, not just when it's headlines, is professional training, because it's as important to our country that we have good skilled workers as we have good university educated people. It's as important that we have good masters as that we have master degrees. One of the things that we need, and that we're doing, is a boost for the colleges, one of the most undervalued and overlooked parts of our education system. In the previous budget, we had a high level of quality and content. In this budget, there are several places, as well as continuing to strengthen the professions so that we can get more and better skilled workers in the future. We also continue to invest in research. With this budget, we have fulfilled all the escalation plans in the long-term plan for research and higher education, as we promised. In other words, we set a new standard for what a research policy document should be – not just fine words, not just celebrations, but actual, concrete, real escalations in the form of several scholarship holders, more money for equipment, more money to participate in Horizon 2020, which is the EU's major research programme. Finally, we are faced with a huge task of preparing Norway for the future. One of the most important parts of it is a lift of competence. Lifelong learning is something we've been talking about in Norway for a long time, but the reality is that our systems aren't really rigged for it. There are also many parties that have exciting suggestions and good ideas, and I look forward to discussing the matter further with the Storting in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2268	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2273	I would like to welcome the Council of State back to work and back to Stortinget. It turned out that this quickly became one of the most expensive parental leave in history. But I would like to congratulate the conciliation and the decision to introduce a standard of teacher's density. The working party is very much for more teachers, and we are in order that there should be a norm that ensures that the funds allocated to it actually reach out to school. The right hand side is the party that has often argued strongly against a norm, among other things. against the wishes of the Workers' Party for a norm at municipal level. Today, they will vote for a standard at school level, and not just that – they will investigate and introduce it. It is still uncertain how, among other things, the costs will be incurred. The government itself says that the numbers are uncertain and should be investigated. Municipalities still do not have a response to which model it is set up and how it is to be introduced. But the main concern is precisely that of funding. Then I wonder: When we know the story, with major reforms that are not fully funded, and the effect of it – will the Council of State ensure that a teaching standard is fully funded by the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2280	First of all, since there were questions about this earlier, it's of course that the government is going to implement. We're part of the parties that have made a settlement. But it's not like the government, the Council of State, is making sure it's fully financed. It's the Stortinge that has to give it the money. What the budgetary settlement parties have done is they've put in $200 million. kr to a half-yearly effect from 2018, and then they say that the government has to come back to revision with a detailed assessment of what this will cost. And I guess, as I read the budget statement, the four parties didn't intend to fully finance this, to say it like that. There's always an assessment question what's going to be in the math or not. As the representative Henriksen is familiar with, the four settlement parties have repeatedly given several years of money to more teachers. So it's been distributed in different ways to the municipalities, and then it's going to be a question of assessment which of these is also going to count in the math. In the end, I would like to say that it is nice that the Labour Party congratulates on the budgetary agreement, because that may mean that one step closer to finding out what the Workers' Party really thinks about the norm, because it has been difficult to find out until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2289	At least it is not difficult to interpret the signals from government teams. The Prime Minister has issued a critical opinion on a teaching norm, the Deputy Minister of Knowledge has issued a critical opinion on a teaching norm, and the repatriated, repatriated, minister of knowledge has issued a critical opinion on a teaching norm — and all of this after signing a conciliation agreement with his partners on the introduction of a teacher’s norm. Even today, we have heard representatives from the government parties being critical of the teaching norm that they themselves are going to introduce. It is clear that, at least in some cases, there is uncertainty about the follow-up to this Decision. The representative Knut Arild Hareide well asked a question to the Prime Minister to give her the opportunity to enjoy this millennium's most important education reform, as he said. What I'm asking is how the scepticism of the current Minister of Knowledge, of the Prime Minister, of representatives of the government parties – who say it over and over again, in fact, contrary to the agreement – will affect further work on the teaching norm, which is now to be introduced in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2296	The answer is that it will not affect the work of the teacher’s norm. It must be said that the Right has a good market department, but I do not believe the market department of the Right, or the Government, for that matter, is so good that you can suddenly make all of Norway believe that the Right has become a norm that we have been very clear about that we are against. There is also no point in pretending. This isn't a teacher's norm that Right has wanted. We haven't gone to the elections on it. This is a victory for the Christian People's Party, which has thus got more through in this area over a four-year period, plus a little more, than the other parties that were too norm, managed during an eight-year period under the previous government. It is also important to me that we have to be completely honest with the Storting about what are the pitfalls and the challenges. This means that we have to be absolutely honest that a norm is likely to mean massive transfers to the largest cities and very little – almost nothing – to many small district municipalities. It's not like we have thousands of teachers just waiting to be offered a job at school. This can lead to major recruitment challenges. We have to put that forward, but we're going to do what the majority of the Storting asks of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2303	The Budgetary Agreement between the Government Parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left states that part of these challenges, as pointed out by the Minister of Knowledge, is to be investigated and returned to it in the revised national budget. The revised national budget is presented in May. The budget shall adopt the revised national budget in June. Then it's two months before school starts. Two months, Norwegian municipalities have to prepare for what the representative Hareide, the party leader of the Christian People's Party, refers to as the largest school policy reform in this millennium. The Minister of Knowledge has pointed out financing challenges, with flexibility for municipalities, with the certainty of the figures, with the recruitment of teachers. So the question is, how sure does the Minister of Knowledge feel that it is possible to introduce such a norm when the municipalities get two months to prepare for the introduction of the teachers’ norm from the autumn of 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2310	The problem is not to introduce a norm. The Storting can do that at any time, and then that norm will apply. The problem is to make sure that it gets a real content, i.e. that it actually leads to the desired changes in the sector. There's actually nothing the Storing or the Government can decide, because it depends on a number of things. For example, given that when the norm is fully implemented, Oslo has to employ maybe 600 to 800 teachers -- we don't know exactly the number, you have to look at the last GSI numbers that are coming -- then we can do our part to make it easier to recruit. We can stimulate and do a number of other things like this, but we can't prevent it, for example. may have implications for teacher recruitment in other municipalities. We can't guarantee that Oslo will find 800 trained teachers. But the content of the norm also has something to do with how reality actually is. But we're going to do our best.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2322	The Minister of Knowledge used much of the election campaign to argue against the teaching norm and, after the budgetary conciliation with the Left and Christian People's Party, has spoken to the media, among others. NTB, that the teacher's norm becomes demanding to comply. What I'm not getting into jumps is that the government has already granted 1.3 billion. kr for increased teacher density of 1–4. steps. Unfortunately, this has only given 198 new teacher positions in 1st–4th grade. The Minister of Knowledge then said that it was the municipalities that had to take responsibility and use the money for what it was supposed to be, i.e. that the money comes to the students. When the minister criticizes the municipalities for using the money incorrectly, how can a teacher standard, which will make the municipalities spend the money as they were supposed to, be so demanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2329	After all, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have given money to more teachers in two rounds. In the last round, this money was distributed to all Norwegian municipalities based on student numbers. A teacher's norm is probably not going to work that way. A teacher’s norm means that the municipalities that have the largest classes have to be taken into account, and that’s why a teacher’s norm – probably, at least – will turn out to be the way that a city like Oslo will get very many hundreds of new teachers, a state like Finnmark will get a handful, maybe a little more. We don't have the exact numbers anymore. The means we gave, along with the Christian People's Party and the Left, in the last round, were earmarked, i.e. that municipalities had to use them for 1st to 4th grade teaching positions. They had to report on it, and municipalities who said they were spending it on something else are not getting any more money. In any case, this will not eliminate all the practical problems of introducing a teacher's norm, but, as I said, we must do our part to ensure that the Storting gets the information they need, and we must do our part to ensure that this is implemented in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2338	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2343	The country now receives a good budget, in line with the voters' judgment in the fall's roll call. The voters then said yes to a continued non-socialist government, and they also clearly said that they appreciated that the Progress Party and the government together with our cooperation parties have got to the last four years. The ruling of the voters also indicates that they understand that no parties are going through all their policies, but that compromises have to be made, and that of course there are individual things that the Advance Party should have preferred to be apart, but that the voters are able to see the whole and see that the country is moving in the right direction. Another signal the voters gave was that they clearly said no to the reverse policy of the particular Workers' Party. Although Norway and the world have faced – and still face – difficult times, the government has steered Norway safely. We had a significant fall in the oil price, which led to increased unemployment, which was dramatic for the individual, and which created major challenges. The government came up with targeted measures, and we see the effect. Unemployment falls month by month, and it shows that the government's grip was correct. We also have a budget – which is adopted here now – that clearly shows that we must play with business, that we must create values before we can share the values. Therefore, I am pleased that we have managed to combine it with having a good safety net that captures those who fall outside. The representative Gahr Støre spoke earlier today about the government prioritizing the few. Yes, in some areas we do – because we think it's right. We can take care of the money. It's a system that fortunately doesn't need too many, but those who need it really need it. The government saw a significant expansion of the care allowance scheme before the summer. Then we doubled the scheme and made it less bureaucratic. Now, along with our supporting parties, the Left and Christian People's Party in the budgetary agreement, we are expanding it further. This is something all the parties in this room have wanted, and during the eight red-green years several proposals were made from, among other things. The promotion party, but all proposals to improve the care scheme were then downgraded. Now the four non-socialist parties show that we once again strengthen the care allowance system. If we are to continue as the government has done, to expand and strengthen the welfare community, to ensure that more people can retain more of their own income, it is important to see the whole of the policy. I am pleased that the government, along with our supporting parties, has now continued the massive strengthening of transport – which makes it easier and faster for business to get their goods out, making it easier for employees to get a job that is a little further away, and not least that it is safer to travel on Norwegian roads, and that trains go more smoothly. But it is also about the larger and more structural. Over the last few years, the majority of population have shown that they are able to modernise, for example. the environmental protection law. There's been a lot of protests. Sometimes conversion creates protests, but it is nevertheless necessary. Because society has changed. The needs of industry have changed. Family forms are still changing. What people want with their own lives changes. Then we can't have a work environment law from the 1970s; we need to have a work environment law adapted to the society we have today. That is why I am pleased that we have modernised the Working Environment Act to what people actually need. I'm very pleased with the budgetary agreement we get here today. We make sure that most people keep more of their own money, we make sure that business keeps more of its money to invest, and we can do that while strengthening the well-being of those who really need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2360	The centre party believes in all of Norway, and then one has to facilitate the strengthening of the services near where people live throughout the country. Let's do that, for example. Through a strong strengthening of the municipal economy – the municipalities are a pillar of well-being across the country – and we strengthen the municipalities by 2.4 billion. kr and counties of 1.5 billion. kr. We're prioritizing 0.5 billion. to strengthen local police in order to give people greater security in their everyday lives, where they live, throughout the country. We're giving priority to 1 billion. kr for the Army and 300 million. to the Home Office to strengthen preparedness throughout Norway. The centre party is concerned that we need to build and maintain roads. That is why we are betting on new investments, we are putting more emphasis on racial protection and we have over 1 billion. kr for maintenance on the county roads. We also have to bet on the development of the railway, and we have to bet on commuter parking around the big cities. The centre party is concerned that we should build the country with a good infrastructure. We also need to bet on broadband, so that everyone – both people and business – can access a high-speed network where they live. A policy for Norway as a whole means that we must be committed to exploiting the rich natural resources we have throughout our long-term country. Then we need to facilitate new investments in Norway based on those natural resources. We propose, among other things: one seat of 10 billion. kr in capital to a green investment company to transfer us from fossil to renewable, new and green solutions. We want to strengthen the framework conditions for industry, including: by reintroducing the important initial write-offs for initial investments in the machinery, inter alia: industry and agriculture. We call for targeted investment in different industries, and we are increasing, among other things. agricultural deductions, fishing deductions and seafarer’s deductions. If we are to ensure investment in Norwegian business, stability and predictability are crucial. Then the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the unforeseeable attack on individual industries become very harmful. Travel life has received 50 pst. increase in VAT over the last few years. Air traffic in Norway has received, by a majority of today, a two-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr, and in the budgetary agreement there are The majority conclude new agreements with the EU on trade in agricultural products, which open the door to increased imports without showing a willingness to provide sufficient compensation to the industry. In the budget agreement, one more has a budget of over 2 billion. kr in an increased charge for sugar and chocolate products and non-alcoholic beverages, while maintaining the completely special tax exemption on online trade from abroad, up to DKK 350 per shipment. By means of the tax settlement, a predictable business environment would be created. What is happening now, after year after year with the budgetary agreements that the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party are entering into, is the very opposite. New fees and fee shopping come without notice and without dialogue with interested parties. In the tax settlement, an important ambition was also to close tax gaps, to provide taxation in the countries where value creation is actually taking place, and to ensure fairer conditions of competition, not least for enterprises that do not have the opportunity to move profits between different countries. This is where the Central Party believes that action is urgent. We have concrete proposals in our alternative state budget, including: to include external interest rates in the interest limit rule. Here the majority could have picked up proceeds, here they could have strengthened Norwegian business, but they're choosing to do completely different things. One defers measures against profit movements, but maintains duty-free imports from abroad up to NOK 350 and tops it all with heavy tax increases affecting Norwegian jobs. This is not a policy for Norway as a whole, it is not a policy for creating and strengthening Norwegian jobs. A policy for Norway as a whole also means taking Norwegian workers seriously, strengthening the fight against social dumping, the crime of working life and regulating labour immigration. You also have to make sure that those who travel far must get to work and not be punished, as you do year after year with the commuters. There is a need for a new policy that goes in a different direction, which believes in all of Norway, which provides services close to people. That's the arrangement of the Center Party in our alternate budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2385	Norway will succeed best when we stand together – the city and the country hand in hand. Then we have to solve the task of using the whole country, creating development and preventing centralisation. The working party's alternative budget has an active and good district policy that is absolutely necessary for our future growth industries, but it is also important to curb the pressures on cities and give people the real opportunity to choose to live in all parts of our country. An active district policy is also the basis for taking care of what we know – then we must invest in Norway and not sell Norway. The Labour Party has a strong commitment to the districts in our alternative budget – SEK 1.6 billion. kr. In addition, there is a commitment to municipalities and municipalities. Sogn and Fjordane would get about 73 million. kr more and the municipalities in the county nearly 50 million. kr more with the Workers' Party's proposal to the State budget. These are a lot of teachers and health workers. The Labour Party will make a contribution to those who commute, not punish them. Therefore, we are going against the change in the cost and accommodation of the employees and will introduce the 2015 rules for the commuters again. Nor will we punish the unemployed or the disadvantaged with unsocial, petty changes and cutbacks, and we provide a budget that will give less difference. The deterioration in the overburden grant that we got with the government proposal, it was never relevant for us to go in for it. It would be very unfortunate for many school students, who had got their school day worse. We'd rather put the effort into getting so many drops out of school, we'd have early efforts, enough teachers in the classroom and a massive investment in ICT. The working party ensures good communication throughout the country and safe and secure. The income system was very hard on some of the counties. It happens to my county the hardest. The so-called loss compensation, which was set at 60 million. kr annually, has now come down to 40 million. kr. It creates a very difficult situation when you can't trust these resources to come, and it can be negotiated away and down a late night hour. And it wasn't this thing that was said by the government in the election campaign, on the contrary, that one would sort everything out. Once again, the Workers' Party strengthens regional development resources and takes a 500-million broadband power cap. kr. The Labour Party is focusing on scaffolding, fishing ports, the restoration of fairways and more resources for action against flooding, migration and race, because we take the districts seriously, and we take climate change seriously. This clearly shows our budget. The biggest challenge Norway has to solve is to create more jobs and make sure that a greater proportion of people in working life participate in the labour market. Good initial training with several teachers who have time for students, apprenticeships for all and 3,000 more places of study is the starting point. A billionth prize for professionalism and learning throughout our lives is our priority. The industries such as renewable energy, maritime industries, oil and gas, fisheries and aquaculture are examples of industries where we are world-leading today, where we have a special advantage. A much more active policy to promote the transfer of new opportunities to new jobs is required, for example: a business programme for the sea, climate action providing new industries, investing in bioeconomy, welfare technology and strengthening the cluster programme. The working party will also have better option taxation and accelerator programmes in place to mention something. The Labour Party's budget shows how we will create better business development, more jobs and greater opportunities for individual workers, while ensuring safety at work. The Labour Party has a good budget for both city and country, where work for everyone is the number one job.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2410	This government has seen many records: a record in the number of unemployed, a record low proportion of adults in work and a record high level of oil money use, but without a doubt also a record of promising political action and not delivering. In 2013, Norwegian people were promised new ideas and better solutions. In the 2014 budget, we presented the only right-wing tool: tax cuts funded by future pensions, more expensive kindergartens and cut labour market measures. The year after path unemployed, the right promises to rust Norway for the future. The phase of 2015 was the bag fee, and Norwegian billionaires and multimillionaires received the gift package of the times. Before the Left and Christian People's Party started harm reduction, the plan was for the bill to be sent to, among others. with children, disabled persons in need of a car, the unemployed and the elderly who had experienced the joy of the cultural walking stick. When Stortinget then dealt with the budget for 2016, the crisis along the coast was at its worst, and thousands of people went into Christmas with notice of leave or cancellation. And even though the government party was the most busy to tone down and exonerate the nearly 130 000 unemployed, they promised a budget for work, activity and conversion. The result: there were several tax gifts for the well-being, the flight seat fee and the extra tax for employees who lost the job. The Pose Fees for 2017 were major hospital cuts and more expensive physiotherapy for burn victims and chroniclers, and this year the plan for 2018 was that the unemployed and those who have a long way to go to work should take the bill together with those who cannot afford a lawyer or depend on free distribution. But it was sugar and cheese-happiness in the city. The government has continued in exactly the same track after the option as in the previous four years. The expenditure side increases, the income page becomes weaker, and in order to balance the budgets, it has increased taxes year after year and implemented small cuts to ordinary people and those at the bottom of the table. At the same time, oil money has been phased into record - 1 000 billion. kr – without a major social reform or savings reform, without new ideas or better solutions, without equipping Norway for the future, without prioritisation. Over the same period, unemployment has increased, employment has fallen, differences and poverty have increased, school dropouts are the same as before, the two-degree target is becoming increasingly difficult to achieve, and oil money needs to be reduced sharply. The Right-Forward Party government has failed. They have led a short-term policy that has effectively reduced the scope for action of future decision-makers to meet future challenges. The Labour Party wants a different course for the country. So we have created a budget to meet Norway's challenges with action. We have to get more out of work, greenhouse gas emissions have to go down, we have to build up health and care, we have to bring more elephants to the school, and we have to keep our community model with high trust and little differences. That's why we're proposing a billion bet to create new jobs, to reduce social security. We put money on the table for a real boost for early work, better kindergartens, more teachers and better professionalism. We're proposing close to 1.5 billion. kr more for faster treatment, new equipment and more added to our hospitals. We take the climate challenge seriously while securing jobs for the future. We put money on the table for full scale demonstration facilities for carbon capture and storage, have a nature conservation package of several hundred million dollars, and we will continue to make it easier for ordinary people and families to choose emissions-free transport. After the election, there is a new political landscape in Stortinget. The Prime Minister must only resort to political defeat for years to come. The election result is due to a weak government, and we've got it. The Labour Party is going to use the space of action existing in the National Assembly, to make another policy, to complete the pension reform, to halve the drop-off in the secondary school, to halve the number of new young people and to implement reforms for welfare technology, e-health and digitisation, because reforms are necessary, and because we have a government that does not have the power to anticipate the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2431	A comment on the previous speaker: I can at least see that the Labour Party is measuring the future and what they intend to do. I want to start from the perspective message, and the introduction reads: «Sustained prosperity requires ability and willingness to convert». Furthermore, we can read that ‘new challenges require new answers’, but that requires wise choices. This budget shows that the government is continuing and intensifying the work on the transition needed to ensure sustainable development in the country. It is further stated in chapter 6 of the following message: ‘Productivity is not everything, but in the long term it is almost everything.’ I want to quote what goes on: «In order to contribute to high productivity and good adaptability, economic policy must support balanced economic development, help to use the inputs where they are most plentiful and ensure a high level of exploitation of labour and capital.» Innovation and technology therefore need to generate new high-productive enterprises, and this has the consequence that low-productive units need to be reduced. Conversion is painful and difficult. I have experience with that even in my home built in the West. Those who do not have the ability and the will for innovation must be reduced in the long term. I have a concrete example of it, again from my home municipality, the West: After the war and beyond in the 1950s and 1960s, a larger and smaller wooden boats built. Then a handful of companies realized that they had to stop it and start building steel boats. The shipyards in the West, which previously supplied offshore ships, have again converted to build larger cruise ships and new ships to Hurtigruten, as well as to negotiate today the construction of new coastguard ships, which are part of the budget that we are debating. This shows that enterprises with the ability and the will for innovation and conversion survive in the long run. As previous owners of enterprises, I would like to highlight some of the important elements of the budget agreement: The machine tax – the fact that it is now in place – is an important signal to the creative industry, with stable framework conditions, and which has been seen as a barrier for municipalities to tax machinery and equipment needed for value creation. At the same time, it is positive that the budgetary agreement has elements such as: a phase-out over seven years and a compensation scheme for municipalities that become a special framework, for example: Sunndal in More and Romesdal. This means that the municipality has plenty of time to adapt to new rules when it applies to business taxation. Another important thing is the taxation of options. The budget agreement means that the maximum option benefit will be increased from NOK 30 000 to NOK 500000. Honneur and thank you to the Left and Christian People's Party! It is important to recruit and retain qualified persons that the options are not taxable until the axes are realised. The income tax has been reduced from 24 pst. to 23 pst. for companies and persons, and the marginal tax has been reduced. The property tax valuation discount is increased from 10 pst. until 20 pst. – once again, an action that shows that the government and the Left and Christian People’s Party are concerned with having framework conditions that make companies want to invest and have threatened the sitting government, that it is profitable to create values that benefit everyone, which is necessary for us to create security for all the tasks that we are dedicated to solving. As the Minister of Finance said, we are now moving towards a new era. That is what this budget is proposing, with the innovation and change of tax policy. Not everything is in line with the desire of the Progress Party, but that is the policy. It's possible art as debt. Through cooperation, we have a budget set up to correct what can create values and be interesting to invest capital and forces on – for value creation in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2472	In the autumn of 2013, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left were given the confidence of the voters to take joint responsibility for our country. During the previous period, however, something that was impossible to predict when the election result in 2013 was in place. Some of it was that the oil price fell dramatically – actually by over 70 pst. In such an unforeseen situation, it is very important what the bulk of the population does, and how to deal with such a situation. Strong packages of measures were launched by the majority of the parties in the South and West, in the areas of our country that were most hit by the price fall. But in addition, the handling of this price drop was about doing things that we had already promised to do. Many of the measures we took to increase short-term and rapid activity in the Norwegian economy were also about investing for the future in transport, research and lower taxes and taxes on business. Through strong infrastructure expansion and with a long-term research and development plan, we have invested in the future while increasing activity dramatically. And the results of the government's policy have turned out to be clear and also before the elections in the autumn: the availability has fallen, and it still falls. More and more people are coming to work, and economic growth is now estimated to be stronger in the coming years than is normal for the Norwegian economy. In 2013, when the red-green parties lost the election, the then government parties said this was not about new policies, it was about a desire for new faces. Apparently, the voters liked the faces they got at the time. But I think the analysis back then was crazy, and I think it's just as crazy today. Because when the four cooperation parties regained confidence from the voters, I think it was due to the results that the previous four years had shown, but also that the four non-socialist parties jointly had better answers to the future than the opposition parties had. It has been pointed out by several representatives from this pulpit that the Stortinget has changed since the elections. Let me start by saying that the four parties that were behind all four of the previous budgets still have a majority and are behind the fifth budgetary agreement. But one of the things that has changed in Stortinget after the election is that we've got a much more fragmented opposition. The working party is significantly weakened, we have got a new party into Stortinget, and several of the other opposition parties are strengthened at the expense of the Workers' Party. Therefore, it is also a little special to hear the opposition's criticism of the budgetary settlement to be adopted today. Because it may sometimes seem as if their main criticism is that some charges are going up. But what's weird about it is that if we look at the opposition's alternative budgets, what they're most concerned about, is to overwhelm each other to increase taxes and charges -- the centurion by 6 billion. kr more than the government's proposal, the working party of 8 billion. kr, SV with a total of 17 billion. kr in increased taxes and taxes. So the sum of our four parties' common policies over four years is almost 23 billion. kr in lower taxes and taxes. At the same time, a good society is a society that provides opportunities for everyone, and where anyone who can can also contribute and participate in our society. That is why we are giving priority to action against child poverty in this budgetary agreement, and we are strengthening child protection, among other things. by improving the provision of mental health care for children, improving the conditions for foster parents and strengthening early school work so that more pupils can learn basic skills earlier in school and thus also complete and pass through secondary school. We will also help the long-term unemployed and job seekers under 30 years of age, so that they can get work and training more easily. Many of the challenges we face in the future also need new answers. We know that even more and more people who have an education of which they are proud, in a job they have done for many years, experience that the skills they possess are going out of date, and that they need new filling and new skills. That is why one of the government's important promises for the next four years has been that we must have a reform that is about learning our whole lives, and that no one in our working life will go out on date. Finally, the Workers' Party has, through the media correctly, launched what they themselves call savings forms. For example, they say it's a savings reform to halve the dropout in high school. It's not a reform, it's a goal, and it's a goal that's very easy to get behind. The only question is: what do you do with the policy to ensure that it does? And it's time and again that it's the majority parties that have political solutions to solve the challenges. That is why the voters also gave us four new years to take responsibility for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2493	Unlike the previous speakers, I'm not going to try to be a electoral analyst. I'm not going to talk about the West's package of measures, because we didn't see much more. Stavanger Aftenblad revealed that most people went to museum buildings and state properties on Svalbard, to mention something. Technology has always changed and especially since the industrial revolution. The new thing is the speed at which technology changes. Then we're all going to be tested. Robotization, automation and digitisation fundamentally change working life and make us want to work in completely different ways than before. Jobs will disappear, but new jobs will come. The Labour Party, through its proposal for the 2018 government budget, wants to take political decisions that address the possibilities of digitisation, while ensuring that new differences are not created. The most important thing we do in meeting digitalisation is to bet on competence. We need a skills reform in the labour market, not a new website of 20 million. kr. In fact, we need several thousand new ICT study places, and the Workers' Party is proposing a thousand new ones already in 2018. If this is not adopted, we guide with knowledge and willingness against a critical lack of ICT competence. We will also research more on ICT and new technologies, and last but not least, we need to provide a more digital school by enhancing the skills of teachers and making sure that students get to try coding and programming. The business community in Norway is leading the way in using new technologies, but too many companies are talking about large investments and thus significant risks. The cluster programmes allow companies to cooperate on new initiatives and solutions, so the Workers' Party will strengthen this scheme. In this context, it is possible to give some praise to the government, which ensures that the initiative for a financial technology cluster in Bergen is given Arena status and thus funding. Such initiatives will create export opportunities and depend entirely on an active industrial policy to get out of the start-up pit. In addition to an active industrial policy towards industry, it is necessary to digitise the public sector in order to make better use of resources. In the public sector, there are many tasks that can be automated and that can once again free employees to do tasks that cannot be replaced by machinery. A major challenge in public, whether in state, municipality or state, is that one is divided into so-called silos. One silo can do new work on digitisation without the neighboring silo enjoying it. Therefore, the Workers' Party will strengthen the co-financing mechanism so that projects can go across the silos. In particular, health, education and transport digitisation is taking place in the public sector. For the Workers' Party, it is essential to ensure that the public sector is also able to use new technology, unless we get a two-tier system where those who can afford it buy a better private service, and the others have to thank for an out-of-date public offer. Government purchases goods and services for 500 billion. kr every one year. Since the growth of public consumption is increasing under this bourgeois government, there is no reason to believe that the figure will be reduced — on the contrary. The 500 billion. kr in acquisitions should be used as far as possible to promote innovation and better solutions, but in practical policy it does not appear that this is the ambition of today’s government. The Workers' Party will have a risk-relief scheme for public acquisitions, which will support public enterprises that want to acquire to address major societal challenges. For example, in Norway we have: possibility of becoming a pioneer in e-health. It takes a lot of investment. The Workers' Party will support hospitals and municipalities that have good e-health projects on the stairs. We want to invest a lot more in our hospitals. Many municipalities are also lagging behind and are slightly digitised. A kindergarten application is not digitised when the case manager has to print it out and punch it into another computer system even if I have applied for electronic applications. Therefore, several standard solutions need to be made available. The large municipalities are moving ahead and developing solutions that are gradually being used in smaller municipalities. Therefore, the Workers' Party will increase the funds for ICT projects in the municipalities. Digitalisation is not just for public bodies and large municipalities. Digitalization must embrace everyone. People and businesses throughout the country must have access to high-speed networks, and in many places government subsidies are needed to increase access. The working party is therefore in favour of strengthening strongly the support for broadband development. Technological changes can, as I said, create new differences. Automation and robotization will increase wealth, but there is no automation in the smooth distribution of goods – on the contrary. This is why the Norwegian model is more topical than ever — a redistributive tax system, social security and a policy of competence that embraces everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2521	Despite gloomy predictions from the opposition, the media and a few others a short time ago, AS Norway is actually doing quite well. It's not primarily because of crazy forward-looking, wise and sensible politicians. It's because we have helpers and nurses who wear the uniform every morning and go to work, that's because we have plumbers, masons, engineers and civil engineers who build the country, that's because we have a working tripartite collaboration, and that's because we have people who have taken a little more initiative than most of us, put a little extra, failed, but still got up again and again, the founders. But although it is the individual people who have built the country and who have made it as robust as it is today, it is that good, correct and powerful policies also help and support this trend. It was not given that we would be doing well when we were standing in the hall almost two years ago discussing important matters with an oil price of 27 dollars, increasing unemployment and the biggest asylum flow in Norway as a backstop. ‘Too early’ and ‘too late’ were used approximately every other time in the criticism. The fasitator is that we've done quite well because of the policy, not despite it. In my home country, South-Trundellag, Nav was able to report a record low unemployment before the weekend, at 1.8 pst. You have to go back to a few years before I was born to find equal numbers, this despite really quite large tax credits to people most and to businesses in recent years. Maybe it's just because of it. Welfare services can hardly be said to have been worse in recent years either. Roads are built that never before, hospitals have a high level of activity growth, municipal budgets are rusty, and there are subsidies for high-ranking hospitals. The logical end of this must be that it's not like the Workers' Party has said in every year, that a krone in tax bills is a krone smaller to well-being. A crown of tax relief can actually generate welfare growth. It also bears the Workers' Party's alternative budget. There is a strong recognition – the former rhetoric linked to the fact that tax cuts are well-off is now dead and buried. In the election campaign, we heard repeatedly from the Labour Party's leadership and candidates that what was going on to solve all the welfare state's challenges was to increase taxes by 15 billion. kr. Now you've moderated this up to 15 billion. kr. Nobody heard in the campaign, but it's a step in the right direction. With his about 8 billion. kr in tax clippings retains the Working Party approximately 15 billion. kr of the taxes paid by the majority of the parties over the last few years. That's good. Of course, it is not good to increase taxes at a time of change for businesses, but it is good not to keep the promise from the election campaign this year. We are giving priority to this budget. Treasures are to be kept down, not up. The cooperation parties continue the strong commitment to infrastructure to build the country on the road, track and sea. When the transport budget is increased by about 60 pst. In the last four years, there has been a massive investment in which there has been a past neglect. Knowledge, research and development are among the most important building blocks for meeting the transformation we are up against. A resilient business life, which finds new solutions to the challenges of the future and which can bring revenue to the community in the future, is crucial. One of the main means of achieving this is the removal of machine taxes. Taxation of production equipment instead of the final product is incredibly inefficient. If we mean something, for example. a green shift, it may not be the case that businesses are hesitant to replace obsolete, environmentally hostile machines with new, greener machines in fear of increased tax. The fact that the Workers' Party and the Centre do not listen to the League of Bonds, the Joint Alliance and the Industry Energy, to mention someone in this matter, is frightening. Norway wants to secure more people's jobs with this budget. It will ensure and further develop the well-being of those who need it the most. We give priority to the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2541	After four years with the government of Solberg, health cows have fallen, the number of patient treatments has increased, we have had more health sisters in school, and people who are struggling with alcohol or mental health problems are being followed up more closely. We have introduced free treatment options. We have presented a national health and hospital plan, notification of primary health services, drug escalation plan, prioritisation notification, and we have rights-based user-led personal assistance – to mention something. The goal is to create the patient's healthcare. The budgetary agreement concluded between the cooperation parties maintains and strengthens this important commitment. Over five years and five budgets, the government has set up a higher level of activity in hospitals than the red-greens provided for in their eight years. Next year, there will be a growth in all patient treatment of 2 pst. Demographic developments indicate a growth of 1.5 pst. In addition to this, the growth proposed facilitates increased medical costs and investment and allows more people to receive treatment. The government is proposing 785 million. kr for the start of four new large construction projects next year compared to the ageing budget for 2017. Furthermore, the government is in favour of planning for two proton centres. The first centre is established at the Radium Hospital in 2023. The second centre is established in Bergen and there is agreement between the cooperation parties that it should be planned to be completed by 2025 at the latest. We now see good results from our policies. Wait time's coming down. There are about 75 000 fewer waiting at the end of the second tertiary in 2017 compared to the same time in 2013. In other tertiary this year, the average waiting time for all disciplines was 58 days. We have thus achieved the year's target that the average waiting time should not exceed 60 days. Compared to 2013, this is a 13-day decrease. So far, 28 package trajectories have been introduced. Packing processes enable patients to experience a well-organised, comprehensive and predictable treatment system. We are now in the process of establishing a package process in mental health and alcohol, and we are proposing to continue funding for this in 2018. We need to strengthen the quality of care services. The draft budget further enhances the quality and capacity of care services. Grants are provided for around 1,800 lucky day care spots and 350 day activities places for residents with dementia. In the years ahead, it is important to establish more lucky days care places. Therefore, the Government proposed a gradual conversion of the investment grant into the State budget for 2017 so that, from 2021 onwards, only investment grants will be granted to projects that provide net growth of the health care places of the lucky days. The number of applications for investment grants granted to lucky day care centres has almost doubled. The government has given priority to following up the primary health notification, and we propose 55 million. kr for pilot trials with primary health teams in municipalities. The establishment of primary health teams will contribute to more integrated and better coordinated services and a wider range of services. The government will also step up efforts for people with drug challenges and/or mental health challenges. The escalating plan for the drug field is followed up by 300 million. by strengthening the free revenues of municipalities. Furthermore, it's 200 million. kr of the growth of the free income based on early work in kindergarten and school, and SEK 200 million. with preventive measures for children, young people and families. The budget agreement further increases the free revenues of municipalities by 100 million. SEK to more health sisters, and SEK 75 million. kr to the escalating plan for the waste field. We propose to strengthen public health work programmes in the municipalities by 25 million. kr. Work shall focus on children and young people, promote local drug prevention and contribute to the integration of mental health as an equivalent part of local public health work. The Government supports the recommendation on national digital solutions for the entire healthcare service. Innovation, the use of new technologies and new ways of organising work are essential to ensure a sustainable health and care service for the years to come and – not least – to provide the patient’s healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2564	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2569	The State budget is primarily about people — people who contribute, and people who need community support. In the VG on November 30, we could read that a woman who has severe pain due to endometriosis has been denied her application for work relief. According to VG, the refusal is justified by the fact that she is not in active treatment. Active treatment means surgical or chemical sterilisation. In plain text, this means that the 34-year-old, who wants to have children with his or her partner, is asked to remove the womb and ovaries or to speed up the menopause. It seems quite unreasonable that a woman who wants to become a child is asked to sterilize to receive redundancy benefits, which may indicate a lack of competence and understanding of female health. My question to the Council of State is this: Is it acceptable for a woman who wants to have a child to be asked to sterilize to receive a redundancy allowance?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2578	I cannot decide what treatment is best for this woman. But what is clear, at least, is that in dealing with healthcare, a few people are going to attend and discuss what kind of treatment you want to undergo, and that also applies to patients with this type of disease. The patient must be involved in the treatment given.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2583	Then I thank you for the answer. This is not just about getting involved in treatment, but about getting the opportunity to actually get decent pay or work clearance in a situation where a person wants to undergo fertility treatment and start up a family. So this is about the fact that the Councils of State must jointly take responsibility for finding solutions – not only in the health sector, but also within Nav. Unfortunately, there are more examples of discrimination and gender equality in health services. Research shows that, for example, there are large differences between women and men in treatment and follow-up of heart attacks. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State what he will do to ensure equivalent health care for women and men, and also whether he will take a talk with his fellow State Councillor Hauglie to solve the problem for women with endometriosis.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2590	Ensuring equal treatment irrespective of gender is an important part of government policy. That is why we have also been concerned about, for example: strengthening research on diseases specifically affecting women. The fact that we now have a wider overview of the variation in treatment provision provided also provides a basis for eliminating unjustified variation in healthcare, including drug treatment. between sex. So there is an important work going on, and then of course I will look at the matter that the representative is addressing and see if there is a need to make adjustments there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2595	In the State budget, a significant purchase of laboratory services from private individuals is proposed. We disagree on some things, but I think we're some that what's worse than a public monopoly is a private monopoly. Last week I learned that Health Mid-Norway had acquired X-ray services for the period 2018 to 2022, where the entire volume of the enterprise was given to Aleris in Ålesund. As a result, today’s Kristiansund supply is cut off. But what's worse is the long-term effect of the state's insistence that the next round is not a well-functioning market, and that short-term economic gain will now lead to the formation of monopolies and high prices in the future. My question is whether the Council of State is looking at this, and whether he is willing to go in and order the companies to split up the supply so that we get a well-functioning market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2602	I am, as the representative, concerned that when the state and health businesses act as purchasers, they have a procurement policy that is more than just getting the best price and result from one purchase, but also contributes to the market and competition for the future. What solutions a user uses to achieve that, I think will be a little different depending on what a buyer buys. What is important is that one is confident that one contributes to the delivery of tenders in the next round and does not – as the representative mentions – contribute to the creation of private monopolies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2607	One of the best things about the welfare state is that it should ensure us all equal opportunities wherever we start. Whether you're a poor drug addict or a multimillionaire, you get world-class health care. There are some excesses, but evenly over, everyone should be able to get help. But there's a big hole in our welfare state. When we smile, the class differences shine out of our mouths. – I notice how people react, everyone who meets me, I think I'm stupid, tells Patrick, who has broken, rotten teeth, but can't afford to fix them. Also for richer families, a sudden dental bill on many tens of thousands is a huge expense to swallow. In the SV budget – for the many, not for the few – we start the phase-in of max prizes for dentists. Will the Council of State join this big hole in the welfare state and take dental care into the self-employment scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2616	This government has made several improvements in the dental field that are just protecting people with high dental costs, and that for various other reasons should be better covered for their dental expenses. Among other things, in the draft budget under consideration in the United Kingdom today, there is a stronger offer for patients with odontophobia. It has also been further strengthened in the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. I think that is also a proper development. If the representative arranges to create a general screening scheme for the dentist field in line with what we have otherwise, I think it would be a wrong priority. If we look at the results in dentistry in Norway, we have among the best results in dentistry internationally. We have major challenges, such as: for people with mental health challenges and intoxication. They have a life span that is 20 years shorter than the population otherwise. I would bet the big money where we have bad results, not where we have among the world's best results.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2623	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2629	The elections this autumn became a declaration of confidence for the four bourgeois parties. The government, headed by Prime Minister Erna Solberg, was mandated to pursue a policy that has as its primary objective the creation of security for the country, jobs and sustainability of well-being. Choices are won on credibility. After four demanding years with a worrying security policy situation and with major economic challenges as a result of the sharp fall in oil prices, the government has demonstrated a governance that has left the country safely over a difficult period of time. The voters want more of the policy that actually works, even when one is put to a great test. There is once again growth in the Norwegian economy, and growth has come faster than expected. The arrows point up across the country, even in those parts that were hit hardest. The availability is record low. As was said in a previous post, in the trombone layers, it is now at the very bottom of 1.8 pst. It has been 30 years since the last unemployment has been similarly low, and it is very gratifying that it is particularly among young people aged 20 to 24 that unemployment is declining most. In the fourth quarter 'Finance Norway's expectation barometer, optimism is confirmed in households. But even more important for Norway is the fact that the optimists are soon in the majority of the EU as well. We need 16 years back in time to find corresponding numbers in Europe. Optimism is accompanied by increasing demand, and it is joyous, because the development of our trading partners is crucial for the Norwegian economy. For Norway, a trade nation. We have built the welfare by selling our goods in the markets outside the world. The importance of access to international markets is not diminished at this time. For this reason, it is so important that the government is fully pressurised to take care of Norwegian interests through the WTO, to establish new free trade agreements, and not least through an active European policy. The trends in increased nationalism and protectionism give cause for concern. There are trends that we must work actively against. The forces opposed to international trade, which believe the EEA Agreement belongs to the past, are mistaken for that agreement ensuring Norwegian well-being. The absence of the agreement would have significant negative consequences. If we see it in a district perspective, the image is reinforced. Up to nine out of ten enterprises in coastal areas depend entirely on the EEA Agreement. It is naive to believe that it is just ordering a new and better agreement from the EU. We can't be halfway inside and halfway outside. The EU has been clear: close trade relations depend on a level playing field. Europe with its 500 million people is our largest and most important market. 72 pst. of exports of goods and services goes to the EU, 90 pst. of all oil production, almost all gas and seafood for more than 60 billion. krones. The 170 carloads of salmon that go to the EU every day with 25 million fish meals need predictable frameworks. Therefore, it is so important to call about the EEA Agreement. It was the British with which we entered into our first trade agreements, already in the 1200s – almost 1000 years ago. It's about fish. Among the EU countries, the United Kingdom remains our most important single market. Therefore, Brexit is changing a lot for Norway, and it is important to put trade agreements in place as soon as possible. This is where the government is highly valued. It is still about fish, but now it is also about the export of Norwegian natural gas. When the economy is growing again, we need to use less gas in fiscal policy. It is important to safeguard interest rates, keep a low price and ensure that our export industries are competitive in the markets out there. There are still challenges. Each sitting government has been able to increase the use of oil money. It's turning around. We need better priorities and we need to build buffers. We need to ensure that more people come to work and stay in work longer, and we need to continue to strengthen the growth capacity of the economy. We have a good starting point with solid government finances, a productive business and a highly educated population. With the 2018 budget, we are continuing a policy that we know will work. We continue to reduce the tax burden on people and businesses, and we reduce the discrimination against Norwegian ownership by cutting taxes on working capital. It is worth working and investing in Norwegian jobs. That's why it's an important breakthrough that we're reducing the anti-growth property tax. Through the agreement with the Left and the Christian People's Party, the main profile of the state budget is maintained, while further strengthening in areas that make a good budget even better. In order to ensure growth in the future, we need to keep transforming, reforming and spending the money so that we get more well-being for each krona, and that the Norwegian economy gets more bones to stand on. That's what the government will do, and that's why I'm a future-optimist on behalf of Norway. With this budget, we are strengthening the well-being of today and securing Norway for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2659	After a harvest in which the opposition has chosen to conduct most of the policy at the Stortingen in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, it is good to finally be able to stand here and discuss a little proper policy. Because there's a lot of politics to discuss. This government has had great ambitions, delivered on many cases and also delivered a lot of cases to Stortinget. Taxes and charges have been reduced by almost 25 billion. kr. Health cows are reduced by about 70,000 people. Prison queues are as good as history. Road and rail construction is at a record level. And the people also gave their verdict three months ago, when they gave this government renewed confidence in the elections. I have read with great interest the opposition's alternative budgets. The working party, the centre part and the rest of the left side seem to have two main tools. The main measure of the opposition, that is, the vision itself, which is the alternative to today's government, is to reverse what the government has done – not just reverse what the government has done, but the left side has also been able to reverse its own policy. Because after the poor election result of the Workers' Party, they have chosen to reverse their tax increases, and it is in fact to be commended by the Workers' Party. They should have praise for using some healthy mountain whites also in their political activities, for it is, after all, never too late to turn around. The second instrument the opposition has is more money. It has more money than the government. The world's easiest solution to a political problem is to give more money. But it rarely solves a problem alone. Because if money had been the solution to our problems, Norway would not have had any unsolved political tasks. But we also need new solutions, new ways of thinking and new ways of organizing. The largest opposition party, the Workers' Party, has justly more money than the government, and it's also the privilege of an opposition party. But in terms of political solutions, they appear more like a political bankruptcy settlement, the only political solution being to reverse what the government has done. I mentioned that prison cows have been removed in Norway, much thanks to a prison in the Netherlands, which is not just about money, but other ways of organizing things. This prison will reverse the left-hand side, so put it down. We have set up a pilot project to fund the care of elderly people in Norway, which means that it is no longer the postal code, or where you live, which determines what kind of services you get. This project also wants to remove the left side - to reverse it. The free choice of treatment is another scheme introduced by the government. It gives patients across the country increased power over their own treatment. Also free treatment options want the opposition to reverse. The absence limit has halved the absence in the professional sector. This also wants the opposition to reverse. We have municipalities in Norway that have fewer inhabitants than the number of people who have their daily work here on the Stortinget, but the municipal reform wants the opposition to reverse. We have reduced tax burden in Norway, both for people and for business. This also wants the opposition to reverse. We've simplified a bunch of regulations as regards unnecessary prohibitions, snow cuts restrictions and many other simplifications. Many of these want the left-hand side to reverse. Road and rail development is at a record level, while some of the Workers' Party's biggest criticisms of NTP were that there was too much money. One of our main measures on transport, New Roads, also wants to reverse the opposition. The same applies to the railway reform, which was opposed by the Workers' Party, but which was only slightly opposed in the election campaign. And not least the inheritance fee, which you were against, but afterwards you found out that you should not be against anything. It won't stop here. Although the opposition has budgeted with excessive unrealistic efficiency measures, which is also the priority of the opposition, the government’s debureaucratisation measures are opposed. They are against the ABE reform, they were against the Kemer reform, and they have been against a number of other concrete measures by the government that could actually have made a difference. As long as the main grip of our largest opposition party is to reverse everything the government is doing, I think they'll have trouble reversing the case of polls. For what people want is political solutions – other ways of doing things. Although the opposition seems to lack new policy solutions, they did not lack money. In Norway, we have some sort of tax competition that doesn't look like the kind of tax competition we're used to seeing abroad: the Workers' Party will increase taxes by 5 billion. kr, Centrettet by 6 br. SEK, SV by 22 billion. kr, and those who win this competition are MDGs, which will increase taxes by a total of 45 billion. kr. Then it's tempting to end my speech by quoting a former British Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher: The problem with socialism is that you finally run out of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2695	When the Health Director held his Annual Report for 2017, he promoted young outreach as the main health challenge for society. He didn't talk about "package history" or expensive medicine, he was talking about young outreach. In spite of the fact that young people as a group have never had the better materially, we see increasing extracurricularism. That's what we're looking at, about the numbers of abortions, about disability and about the number of self-reported mental disorders. Three out of ten young people do not complete further education, and more than one out of ten fall outside both school and working life. Nearly 100,000 under 30 years of age are currently out of work and education, and over half of these are lacking in continuing training. The trend also continued for those between 30 and 40 years of age. As elected representatives, we fail when we do not have the power to provide people with disabilities with work organisation. Too many people don't realize that society needs them. Youth thus loses joy, inspiration, and hope. This will change the Central Party in its alternative budget for a new political direction for Norway. In Grundlova, Section 110 states that ‘the state authorities shall facilitate each worker’s living from his or her work or from his or her business. Whoever can't provide for himself has the right to benefit from the public." But that's not the case. The definition of ‘man working’ has been narrowed in. Those who were able to do a job with their jobs a few years ago are now marginalised and ending at best on Nav's action programme. Free labour migration from the EEA area, where unemployment is high and wages are low, has helped to make our working life more brutal. It increases outreach in society. The centre party will have regulated labour immigration, where the applicant must have permanent employment with Norwegian wage and working conditions. The 2016 codecision barometer from the Högskulen in Oslo and Akershus showed that our working life was moving in an authoritarian direction. The impact on own work situation and on the management and organisation of the enterprise is all the least in the country and in foreign owners. The barometer also showed that pre-care and health services have much less impact on the organisation of work than in all other industries. The central party therefore proposes a trust reform in the state and in the municipal public services for smaller bureaucracy, more consultation rights and more responsibility in the first line service. The differences in Norway have increased, and there have been several poor children. Over the years, the size has been slowing down child-rearing, a measure that we know helps to smooth out child families and other families. The Centre Party shall give priority to this in its alternative budget. In our budget, we are faced with a multi-field distribution policy, to ensure both economic and geographical cohesion, fair distribution between parts of the country, between social groups and between generations. We know that social distress and poverty are often inherited, and that it is crucial for both social development, the bearer's strength and the productivity of society that we continue to be a society of small economic differences. A strong welfare society can only be created together with its inhabitants. It must be based on citizenship and trust that people will take responsibility and participate actively in the community, not just through public schemes, but by setting up and making a difference for each other in everyday life. Society is facing major and demanding care challenges over the next ten years, and if we are to secure the welfare state, we must include, respect and take seriously the efforts of relatives, volunteers and non-profit organisations. Rarely have we seen a proposal for a government budget that systematically cuts support for voluntary teams and organisations. Something has been corrected, but progress is worrying. In the field after field, we see that voluntary action is not respected. In the Central Party's alternative budget, we prioritise voluntary teams and organisations to secure a viable welfare society for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2712	In the next few years, we're going to do bigger problems with less money. Then it is more important than ever to use the community money properly. Low unemployment rates seem to make the government ignore one of the most important challenges we face, namely that fewer and fewer of us are taking part in the world of work. What does that mean for the economic space? With an equal proportion of adults working in Norway in the third quarter of 2017, which we had in the third quarter of 2013 — four years ago — we would have 73 000 more employed in Norway today. Only the tax revenue from these 73 000 would give Norway a income of 7 billion. kr. If, in addition, the 73 000 depend on public social benefits to live, the loss to society is even greater. It's an annual loss – 7 billion. kr. The government has a fixed response to falling employment rates. Cut the wealth tax to the richest – there will be more jobs. And they use 3 billion. kr on it, also in this budget. The government swears to dynamic effects of tax relief. To put it simply, they believe that those who receive tax cuts should invest in new jobs, and more people should work more. The Ministry of Finance wrote in the tax proposition in 2015: ‘There is no basis for budgeting with dynamic effects in 2015 of the proposals for tax changes.’ In the 2015 national budget, the government itself writes: «Since the overall functioning of the capital markets in Norway, the tax on wealth is likely to affect savings in the first place.» Tax havens are a very expensive and inefficient measure for increased employment, but it appears to be difficult for the Right and the Advance Party to get out of the track. The Labour Party knows that we in Norway have become rich in everyone's work. We don't want to be part of the wealth tax code, because what we know about them is that they're increasing the differences in our society. The small differences we have in Norway have been ensured by an active policy of equalisation. If we're going to get more people to work and stop progressing towards increasing differences, we're going to have to use billions wisely. We must qualify the workers of the future for future jobs. That is why the Workers' Party has ensured in its alternative budget: Early effort, which should already start in kindergarten. We will therefore complete the funding of a empowerment in kindergarten that ensures that half of the employees have education and training. We finance early work in primary school and will provide a read, write and calculation guarantee. We're going to spend $300 million. kr for new teachers in our 2018 budget. The 15 000 young people who do not complete secondary schools each year are a challenge for Norway and for individuals. We need to make sure that we get out of today's situation where every third student in the profession ends before they get a letter of formal or bachelorship. That is why, in addition to what I have said about early work, the Workers' Party will spend a billion to strengthen the professions. The equipment in which the students are taught must be up-to-date and must be guaranteed an apprenticeship. It is impossible to understand that the government can make a four-year school run and accept that they cannot offer in the last two years. The working party will have 3,000 more study places and 2000 more job market action places. For Nordland, too many counties that are part of Oslo, it's vital that we build broadband even where the market doesn't find it profitable. The working party should therefore spend half a billion dollars on it. We have a rich coast, and the Workers' Party will give priority to the possibility of investing in fishing ports. We'll bet 150 million. kr more than the government of that in 2018. We're betting on CO 2 capture and storage, and we're strengthening Enova. We want to strengthen the mineral industry, and focus on mineral exploration, because we know that value creation is taking place in relation to natural resources. We are opposed to the planned increase proposed by the government in the CO 2 tax on LNG, because we believe it will weaken the industry along our coast. The Labour Party has the solutions that will secure us in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2762	There has been an exciting debate so far, and the evening is still young, so I'm not going to try to sum up, but bring a little reflection so far. One of the reasons for the collapse of the Workers' Party at the autumn elections was that the voters did not recognise themselves in the misery description of Norway, and therefore did not want the Workers' Party's alternatives. I notice that the Labour Party throughout the day – so far – still has its reading of its own election campaign brochures from earlier this fall. I have to remind the Labour Party that we are a country with great opportunities and little differences. Many are involved in the labour market in the big society. We have large natural resources, a competent workforce and sound government finances. Wealth is more evenly distributed than in most other countries. Financial policy has been actively used in recent years to combat unemployment. Together with low interest rates and a marked improvement in competitiveness, targeted fiscal policies have contributed to the recovery of growth and to the reduction of unemployment, including in the south and west, and the recovery of the Norwegian economy has come faster than expected. I'm glad that Norway has a government that sees the importance of a real big city bet. The big cities are Norway in miniature. By 2030 Oslo will have over 800,000 inhabitants. We know that education is one of the most important factors for both integration and social mobility. This is why the government's commitment to additional funds for early school work, free core time in kindergarten for families with low incomes, the launch of a new Oslo South bet – which, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has further strengthened – and the reinforcements of the Groruddals bet are crucial. Let me elaborate on this particular field a little bit more: I have followed the Workers' Party's criticism of the area bets. There has been a lot of criticism and little politics. Whatever the challenge, the Workers' Party's answer is to give even more money. At the same time, we miss the concrete solutions and a debate on how to get as much money as possible back. How do we get more people to work, and how can we get more people to finish school and more to learn Norwegian? I feel that the Workers' Party only wants to get out of the challenges, and if you don't have clear plans for the allocation, it becomes too pure a symbol policy – in a way a form of political laxity. In the big community, there's room for everyone. There should be room for those who are applying for a job, and for those who want to create their own. It is precisely for this reason that lower corporate taxes, removal of machine taxes and investment in innovation, business start-ups and new jobs are important. There should be room for those who have moved to the city to study, but have their heart in their hometown. There shall be room for the refugee family who, through hard work, moves out of their social home and into its own. For this reason, the government’s commitment to social housing policy, the organisation of building more dwellings and student housing and the follow-up of important collective and infrastructure initiatives are important. At the same time, we have a working party which, in practice, is opposed to several important approaches to modernising and reforming Norway in the necessary direction. The party continues to win in fiscal policy when they try to be both for and against tax relief at the same time. Now they're going to keep tax reliefs that they've previously been against and called sociale. I welcome that, and I choose to take it as a sign that the Workers' Party has finally realised that the Right has always been right that lower taxes can provide more well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2779	I record that the representative Kapur has spent time reading the election brochures for the Workers' Party. I'm sure he's good at that. But I have actually spent time reading the setting that we have for treatment here today. In it, government parties say that a good and predictable municipal economy is important for municipalities and county municipalities to carry out their tasks. The same representatives say that the government's draft budget for 2018 will also facilitate the provision of more and better services by the local government sector. The government parties attach with it an impossible responsibility to all the local government members around the country who in these days are striving to cut enough of the offers, and not because the offers are too good, or that there is more capacity than is required. There is also no municipal detachment that makes it necessary to cut — no, the municipalities actually get less to route to next year. Real growth is eaten up by wage and price growth, and there are more people who need public services. In addition, the government uses to lubricate what they call a municipal reform, by taking money from the other municipalities so that there should be money for carrots for those who join forces. For all of us who were in the campaign, it was made visible that we needed more and better services. We've met users, relatives and employees. We've learned and listened. In the Workers' Party, we translate that lesson through what we prioritise in the budgets. We have learned that there are challenges that need to be solved, that there is a lot of waste in the care of the elderly, that the school health service is not good enough, and that we have a dementia care that is not enough. We've seen that there's a lot of mess about bullying, and we've seen that both kindergarten and school need a lift. That's why we've prioritised more than 2 billion. kr to the municipalities, and the county councils will receive 1 billion. kr more from us than what the government proposes in its budget. In addition, there are some initiatives that will benefit the community sector beyond what is in the framework. Then we can get exactly what the government parties write in their comments – more and better services. It is necessary that the public sector also contributes to new ways of working. Norway needs to be the best in the world to implement new technologies and new digital solutions. Much is done, but much remains. The effort made visible by the government in that area is about half of that provided by the Stoltenberg government in 2013. Should citizens use digital solutions for e.g. to follow up their kids at school, and then broadband access needs to be improved. Digital divisions are reinforced by geography, and we can do something about that, but then infrastructure money is needed. The government's commitment to broadband is in sharp contrast with the goals of leading the world. Conversion requires safe employees. The Norwegian model has given us a working life where the competence of employees has contributed to many new solutions for the benefit of citizens – and also given us high productivity. However, the public sector has developed in such a way that measurement and control have gained too much space. The Labour Party believes that more emphasis should be placed on the knowledge and competence of employees. Greater emphasis needs to be placed on societal benefits and outcomes. We are proposing a reform of trust, where professionals are given greater freedom to make assessments of how tasks are to be done. The Norwegian model is tailor-made for such thinking, and here the government must ensure that tripartite cooperation is just that, a cooperation. All too often, we hear that you are called to meetings with the Council of State and are told what things should be like, or you are allowed to give a hearing response. That's when the resources are wasted. Real tripartite cooperation requires more, and it produces better results.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2796	And then we're left here. One year has passed and a new one is planned. The government has again presented a sustainable budget, which focuses on economic growth, on more at work and on the welfare community – our welfare society, which is something quite unique. "No one can do for anyone," said Ivar Aasen. In a budgetary process with strict priorities, this is probably a good thing. But in the health field, it may seem that the government has managed to prioritise widely and has remembered most. We listen to recordings that come, and we make services better in areas where they can get better. The government will provide patients' health services. That means that if you are a patient, you should be sure that no decisions about you are made without you. In order to achieve this, municipalities must succeed in creating coordinated and holistic patient pathways, more prevention and early intervention, and providing more services near where users live. Accessibility is increasing, capacity is increasing and quality in the health and care sectors is increasing. Hospitals are strengthened, which means faster treatment and shorter waiting times. The Russfield is also thought of this year, through the continuation of the escalation plan. The primary health service is further developed, including: through the launch of a pilot on primary teams and follow-up teams. Government funding for health and care services is in the best interests of the six municipalities involved, and I can't help but say that my FrP heart is delighted to hear all the positive feedback we get from employees, from managers, relatives and not least from patients and users themselves. We know well that many in this room are opposed to the government assuming financial responsibility for the care of the elderly in the municipalities, perhaps in some sort of fear that private people will come on the track with offers to the elderly and caregivers who are better, or different, than those who exist today. But what are they really opponents of? In the case of the Advance Party, it is as natural that, in the same way that parents can choose which kindergarten their children are going to attend, the elderly themselves, or their dependants, shall decide where to spend their age or from whom to receive care services. There is no logic in imposing restrictions on letting people choose for themselves, just because they are getting older or need care services. The government’s investment in dementia continues in 2018 through 350 more day-time activities for people with dementia and grant funds for day-to-day activities. A whole Once again, we are making it possible for all the beautiful people who work every day in municipal health and care services to have the opportunity to increase their skills. One and a half billion. will provide quite a number of people with the desired and necessary continuing training. I believe that prevention and public health are particularly important for the future. Working preventively instead of always having to treat, while building good public health measures for the whole population, will provide a win-win situation for all of us and for society. What also delights my heart is that we are so massively betting on our children and young people through the strengthening of health centres and school health services with more health sisters and psychologists, that a strategic plan for mental health has now been put forward to shape an action plan, and not least that more measures are being taken against bullying, and that violence and abuse are clearly put on the agenda through a separate plan. The effort in the field of drug and mental health is a priority task for me and for the Advancement Party. I am happy to address 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2832	In the last four years, a historic journey promise has been made. In five budgets and in an ambitious national transport plan for the period 2018-2029, the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left have shown both the will and the ability to build the country. In 2018, the transport budget is over 60 pst. higher than in 2013. When the representative Giske claims that the government has a rift of 1 000 billion. This is part of what we have been committed to: building infrastructure and making everyday life safer and better, and ensuring that people get to and from work and other activities quickly and environmentally friendly. In my opinion, this is a good investment, which contributes to increased value creation and more jobs. We give priority to the most important thing. Therefore, the level of maintenance and renewal on the road and the path is lifted significantly during this government, and after several decades of decay, we now see a clear improvement. There's a reason to enjoy, even though we still have some way to go. Society is becoming more and more digitized. This means that the demand for broadband and a good mobile network is becoming increasingly important. I record that the Workers' Party and the Center Party choose to talk about a small part of the broadband bet when they criticize the government. In Norway, we have chosen to let broadband development take place mainly on commercial terms. It's been a success. In 2016, more than 10 billion were invested. the ecosystem, and Norway is at the top of the world on broadband and mobile coverage. It is a competitive advantage that we must continue by continuing to facilitate development, contributing to low costs, for example. through an effective excavation regulation, and have a targeted grant scheme in areas of non-commercial interest. I think with advantage both the Workers' Party and the Center Party can try to see the whole of broadband development before they draw up their crisis picture. Norway has undertaken to implement a significant greenhouse gas emission cut. A large part of these cuts need to be made in the transport sector, and we are doing well. Several measures in the 2018 budget will contribute to further reducing greenhouse gas emissions. In the state budget for 2018, we continue to invest in railways, collectives, corridors and bicycles, and especially in urban areas. According to the Central Statistical Office, there is a significant increase in the number of collective trips from 2015 to 2016. Positive grant and levy schemes that promote low- and zero-emission solutions have made Norway a leading country in the phase-in of eco-innovation. The electric car bet is a good example of that. In the maritime sector, new technologies are being developed in the form of battery and hydrogen electrical solutions for boats and ferries, well assisted by public procurement schemes and support for Enova’s organisation. By 2020, it is likely that around 50 ferry connections could have zero emission solutions. There's good reason to be a technology optimist. We do not solve the environmental challenges by limiting people's mobility, as some parties on the left seem to believe, but by developing new technologies. It both reduces emissions and creates new Norwegian jobs. In spring we adopted the National Transport Plan 2018–2029. The state budget for 2018 is the first year of this plan, and it is projected to grow in the transport budget of well over 4 billion. kr. The pace announced in the national transport plan is well under way, and it is important that this is a high priority already in the 2018 budget. So we've started the implementation. In the examination of the national transport plan, there were several good wishes for speeding up projects on both roads and roads. For example, the Labour Party was clear that they would speed up 27 large road projects to over 50 billion. NOK by decomposing only 5 billion. kr. It's totally unrealistic. I had then expected the Workers' Party to try to follow up the promises made in ours. But no, despite tax increases of over 8 billion. Thus, in the 2018 Alternative Budget of the Workers' Party, it is not provided with an additional crown. I experienced that the representative Gahr Støre largely canceled roadlifts in his reply with the representative of Helleland earlier today. During the previous ageing period, we implemented many reforms to facilitate lower costs, faster deployment and better provision for travellers. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV voted against. Now we are beginning to see the results of the reforms. New Wegener reports that they can build their portfolio both faster and more reasonably. The state road system is in transition and implements measures to increase the efficiency of operations and reduce costs. The railway reform provides a clearer division of responsibilities and reinvents Bane NOR as a development operator, while at the same time the sections will be subject to ongoing competitive pressure. This will give more way and path for the money in the future. We are entering a new era, where new technologies will change the transport sector, create a better offer for travellers and contribute to more environmentally friendly transport. The national transport plan and the state budget for 2018 are another step on the way to a more modern and sustainable transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2855	We who are big-time representatives now are incredibly lucky. We have in many ways taken over the rudder of a Norwegian registered joint ship that is well rigged and well loaded, but currently sailing in some uncertain waters. It's easy to navigate faults, because over many decades we've had so good things that it's easy to get a little low-pitched and don't take the danger signals seriously when they show up – and maybe not until it's too late. We're going to go through the transitions that affect us in many areas at the same time. Then it's not enough to look at the dangers or just to talk about them, you have to be able to sail safely in port. The sea has given us enormous opportunities over thousands of years. Until now, we have in many ways managed to lay a horsehead at the forefront of technology development in marine industries. We've also been able to build cooperation across the whole value chain, and now across different industries. This has strengthened Norwegian competitiveness. I'm sure the president doesn't have the Paris agreement in the front of the pancakes all the time, neither do I. But good fellow, that's now we have the chance to save the earth from global warming, and that's now we're sitting with that responsibility. We have no withdrawal period. The Labour Party believes that the tasks Norway is now going to do give us opportunities for both industrial development and new jobs throughout the country. But it depends on political courage and forward-looking, tough priorities. The whole world is now working to limit global warming to 2 degrees, but although all countries are following the international climate agreement, the global average temperature will increase by 2.7 degrees. It will have extensive and devastating consequences for large parts of the world's population. It will give more frequent floods, even here. That is why we have an offensive commitment to research, prevention and management of floods and breeds. In Norway, the West will be particularly vulnerable. Then it is sad that the government takes too little responsibility in terms of flood and slip protection. We now see that the government by removing the climate technology fund in Enova will help us to get less predictability in terms of payments there as well. It is regrettable that we have a government that is now creating uncertainty about the CCS projects, where Norway can take on the leadership jersey again. In the Workers' Party we know that it is urgent to seize. The goal is to reach 40 pst. emissions cut by 2030. It is ambitious, and action is absolutely necessary. The potential lies in zero-emission technologies in road transport, biofuels, climate-friendly shipping and carbon capture and storage. Enova is an important tool to facilitate measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Clear orders and budgets that help are therefore important, and are our answer to this. The Labour Party has a policy in which big cities are leading in terms of climate adaptation emissions cuts, and it is shown in the cities we now run. The government’s draft budget has many shortcomings and did not respond to Norway’s challenges, but after the conciliation, it became somewhat better – in cooperation with the Left and Christian People’s Party. In its draft budget, the government would also remove the exemption from the CO 2 tax on LNG ships, rather than maintaining the exemption and contributing to the growth of the domestic market, and that our Norwegian business life can position itself well in an increasing global market. In our alternative budget, we point to four areas where there is a high potential for cutting emissions in Norway: zero-emission technologies in road transport, sustainable biofuels, climate-friendly shipping and carbon capture and storage. The working party will also focus more on long-term research and development of climate technologies. Our goal is for Norwegian industry to become world leader in climate technology and create new skills jobs across the country. There has been a long debate, and even longer. But it is interesting to see – and not least hear – that the parliamentary leader in the Right says that it is to the Right and the government's credit that business is now doing better, and links it to the oil price drop that has been. At least they've never taken the blame for the oil price fall, but when things go well again, it's of course the government's 'debt'. And then finally, I just want to play with numbers a little bit. The right went down to 25 pst. in the election, the Progress Party went down to 15.2 pst. – it's good to remember, because it doesn't sound like that. They have lost a total of five mandates, and I believe that self-confidence should not be overinhaled.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2881	The government has managed Norway safely over a demanding period of time. Now the arrows are pointing up, and it shows that the government's active fiscal policy with temporary package of measures has been working as intended in recent years. An economic downturn has turned to an economic upturn, and this has got footholds all over the country. In order to ensure well-being, more profitable jobs need to be created that contribute to the economy of Norway and not just jobs to be paid by AS Norway. The government has now provided a budget that provides a basis for economic growth, more jobs and a sustainable welfare society. The Norwegian kroner have been marked weaker since the oil price fell. There is a clear advantage for export enterprises, for suppliers of the oil business and for other enterprises facing competition from abroad in the Norwegian domestic market. Adaptation to improved competitiveness takes time, but tourism and aquaculture are good examples of industries that have seen strong growth in turnover. Tomorrow's jobs are created by investing in knowledge, research and innovation. This takes the government seriously. The investment in industrial research, such as the User-led Innovation Arena, the FORNY2020 and the SkattenFUNN Facility, has increased beyond 4.2 billion. kr from 2013. The establishment of the budget with tax incentives, investment in infrastructure, research and innovation supports growth and conversion. The best indicator showing improvement in the economy is that the labour market is also improving. The registered unemployment rate has fallen every month this year. The figures presented last Friday show that the proportion of the total unemployed has fallen from 2.8 pst. in November last year to 2.3 pst. in November of this year, and compared to last year, far fewer companies on leave or dismissals. The government continues to implement the tax reform in line with the agreement of the Stortinget. The company tax has been reduced from 28 pst. in 2013 to 23 pst. in 2018. In a survey carried out by the NHO, company owners said that the property tax — the peculiar penal tax on Norwegian ownership — prevents the creation of more jobs. The government proposes reliefs in the property tax, which will strengthen Norwegian private ownership and secure Norwegian jobs. If anyone is in doubt, the government listens to all parties in the business community, including the LO and the Joint Alliance. These were clear that the machine tax had to be removed. «COMMUNICATION of taxes on machinery endangers Norway’s workplaces» said Jørn Eggum of the Joint Confederation. I am therefore pleased that the cooperation parties also agreed that this tax should be phased out. This is important for Norwegian jobs to be involved in development. Technological developments are fast-moving. We live in the age of robots. We're all hearing about digitization, automation and 3D. Any enterprise that wants to be involved in development and has ambitions to compete on the world market must be in close technological terms. The fact that Norwegian industrial companies competing outside must be subject to an additional machine tax when they acquire new equipment and machines becomes completely absurd. We rightly boast of the Norwegian production workers – the operators. They are recognized as the best in the world. But in order for us to be able to compete in global competition, the same workers must have access to the latest and best technology. This must then be done without paying an extraordinary machine tax in order for the companies to invest in their employees and their business. This is now correcting the government and the cooperation parties by phased out the machine tax. The government continues its priorities of growth-enhancing tax relief, boosting trade and investing in research and innovation in the state budget for 2018. This is essential in order to provide the best conditions for business to create new jobs and secure existing jobs. Since I have some time left, I would like to make a little comment on the previous article, which referred to how the polls have gone. If the same representatives had looked at the opening of the Workers' Party here in the Chamber about today's polling had been taken into account, I think it would also have been significantly lower.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2907	Despite a difficult period with the greatest oil price drop of 30 years, the biggest migration crisis since World War II and an increasingly uneasy and unwieldy world, the Progress Party has been helping to steer the country safely against new optimism. In the same debate one year ago, the Labour Party leader Jonas Gahr Støre was concerned and reported concerns. He reported that unemployment increased, greenhouse gas emissions increased, there were fewer employees, and Nav in Rogaland reported the highest unemployment ever. Since then, greenhouse gas emissions have fallen, unemployment has fallen for ten months, the number of employees has increased, and Nav in Rogaland has had a decline in unemployment of a total of 32 p.m. and also a fall in youth unemployment. I wonder very much how the leader of the Workers' Party thinks this is actually going. With such a situation it was probably more than me who dared to believe that Jonas Gahr Støre should be less concerned this year and perhaps bring a thumb up to the government to have managed the country well over a demanding period of time, for this has not come of itself. It comes because we build the country with significant investment on the road and other infrastructure, an increase of huge 50 pst. from 2013, over 20 billion. lower taxes and taxes, which enable business to create jobs, increased research efforts to guide us for the future and investments in police and security for a troubled period of time. The government's policy has worked. Growth in the Norwegian economy is on the rise, unemployment is falling, and more jobs are created. I am pleased that we have put in place a good budget for 2018, and I am particularly pleased that in the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left we have prioritised funds for an investigation of clinical master's studies in medicine at the University of Stavanger, which I personally promised the voters in the election campaign. Today many people have talked about sustainability. SV’s representative Kaski writes that fewer and fewer oil companies pay taxes – it’s not very sustainable. I can calm her down with that 130-billion-dollar. kr into the state treasury from the oil industry to the highest degree is sustainable. A little sustainable is played out by AUF leader Mani Hussaini in the VG on 21 November, where he believes that increased immigration and less oil production are the way forward for the Workers' Party. It's hard to imagine a less sustainable combination. Then it is not that the AUF believes this that concerns me, but that the Labour Party leader Gahr Støre in the interview refers to it as wise thoughts. Because even if unemployment goes down, there are still high levels of unemployment, especially in Stavanger, Sandnes and Sola, which are typical oil municipalities in my county. Group trusts elected in Statoil said earlier in the autumn that 100 000 people may lose their jobs if new areas are not granted access. Then what we've been through to now will appear to be a mild breeze compared to what we're waiting for. Therefore, new exploration areas for oil and gas will be important for our future sustainability. The International Energy Agency was in Oslo this week to predict the world's energy demand and what it will look like in the future. Demand for both oil and gas will increase in the future. In the fresh IEA assessment of the Norwegian energy policy, they state that Norway should continue its policy of developing oil and gas resources both because the oil and gas sectors are very economical, and they are produced with relatively low emissions and are important for Europe’s security of supply. On the question of Norway being still an oil and gas nation, I think we can say as Jon Almaas does every Tuesday: we're going to die. A lot of people ask themselves. What are you going to live on after the oil? The truth is that if we had had the answer to that in this room, we would probably have driven something else. As politicians, we need to create conditions so that businesses and individuals can be the ones that drive the world forward. Let's do that, for example. with lower corporate and family taxes. A normal family has received NOK 10 000 less in annual taxes with this government. The working party has called this several times for different versions of small money or pocket money. Then you can start wondering what is normal income in the Workers' Party, when you think that NOK 10,000 is small money. The Labour Party is voting for 15 billion today. kr of the government's tax relief, leaving the empty rhetoric that a krona smaller in tax is a krona smaller in welfare. That's because it's wrong. A krone less in tax is not a krone less in welfare. There is one more penny for clothes, for food, for vacations and for leisure activities for families with children and others — something other might call welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2935	Now we were once again confirmed that the Progress Party does not take the climate challenges seriously. That's one of the biggest challenges we have. We have to get a business that can provide jobs without destroying the climate. The progress party was now up and said that it was not their policy at all. It's good to notice. It is important to have a different tax regime than that of the government. It's important to tax havens. SV's tax arrangements, which are calculated by the Minister of Finance – who sits in the Chamber – will provide tax relief for all families with income below SEK 600 000 – to clothing and food and the things that the representative of the Progress Party was now up and talking about. Those families may need this money more than the families that the Progress Party has given tax relief, namely the richest. There is no government before this one who has had such opportunities as you now have. And that's just going to be missing when you spend 125 billion. kr more in oil money, that there was no more road and a little more trains and some more policemen and perhaps even a little more to broadband around the country – there was a little too little of it – and a little bit to the municipalities. You can't spend all of the 125 billions of tax dollars on the richest. 23 B.C.E. kr has been used for what I'd call anti-growth differences, and I'll explain that, because I'm getting pretty tired of this debate about the poor kids. It's not true that we can't do anything about poverty, it's not true that we can't afford it, and it's not true that it's going to hurt the economy and the willingness to contribute if we do. If one gets the ends to meet, the forces can be used to take care of the kids, and if one is healthy enough, one can acquire competence and perhaps get a job, but also there the government has cut off. The OECD presented a report in 2014 showing that if economic disparities were to be reduced in Norway, Norway would have an increase of 9 pst. That's a lot of money. The OECD also recommends more taxes for the richest and smaller economic differences. So less poverty is possible. It's just asking what we're spending the money for. If we use them smarter than the government, we get less poor and economic growth, and it must be better than someone who has more than enough already becomes rich and the disadvantaged get less. What measures can we take quickly? Then I'd like to mention the three b's: the child's back, the baby's supplement and the living support. Child protection has not increased since 1997. It will significantly reduce child poverty, especially if we increase it most for single-parents and families with more children, as SV has done, and also close the gap where municipalities can reduce social assistance for recipients of child welfare. There we also asked the Minister of Finance, who says that over 300 million. kr per year is taken from the poorest families of children in this way. Is there anyone who thinks it's strange that there will be more poor then, and that they will be poor? The second is the children's supplement in the disability. There was the representative from the Progress Party just up and said he thought 10 000 kroner was a lot. Yes, how much have you taken off the child supplement from those with the lowest disability pension and child care? Up to $200,000 a year for people who can't get a job. It's as unsocial as it can be. Housing is about providing people with security in their own homes. We've become hundreds of thousands more people in this country, we've become many more poor, the bout poisons have increased enormously, and the incomes of the families with the lowest income have remained silent. And what does the government do? Nothing. So we're using less for housing now than we did in 2009. There are many tens of thousands of people getting housing support now than ten years ago. This is not at all in the hands of the most disadvantaged families. To know that you have a place to live is important, when you're going to put your legs under and maybe life's gone to a bit of a ball, and you don't have a job and you don't know how to take care of yourself in the future. So the money is there. The government has shown that they want to spend the money on the richest, without being able to prove with a trick that there will be jobs. SV distributes the money to the many who need it, and not to the few who have more than enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2954	In the spring, Stortinget received a message on road choices in Norwegian foreign policy – it was adopted. Here the government announced bold choices and clear priorities. None of those ambitions are essentially visible in the 2018 budget. There are no specific road choices included in this budget. At the same time, we adopted important principles for Norwegian aid, on poverty orientation and predictability for civil society. Nor has it been followed up in the government's proposal. The fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not deal with decisions taken in Stortinget, I think is a problem. In reality, there is very little popular control over how the development budget is distributed. The cooperation parties protest, but basically do not do anything basic about it. This year's debate on development was the same as in the previous five budgets. The Christian People's Party and the Left had to negotiate the aid rate, but they didn't get to the goal. I had probably expected that after the Storting made a principle decision of 1 pst. Nor was it focused on the content of the aid. The Labour Party believes that we need to provide assistance where we can make a difference. After President Trump was elected, it is especially in one area: women's rights in general and women's sexual rights in particular. There, after several years of cutbacks, the government has come back to 2013 level in this budget. So it's not a trick, it's a clear down-priority. Norway is no longer at the forefront in this area. It is the country that Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands and Belgium are. Trump’s ‘gag rule’ not only affects women’s rights to abortion in conflict areas – where we know that there is a much greater chance of rape and sexualised violence, and that women in crisis may be forced to produce children they do not want when such assistance programmes are cut. This rule not only involves that, it also involves a mouth-curve, it reduces the freedom of expression of organizations fighting for self-determined abortion. If they do, the support for their other projects is cut, whether it's about birth aid or vaccines. Where's Norway's voice? This is about human rights and is punishment for organisations that use the free word. Today, we see that many poor countries evolve through aid and trade, as Norway and Europe evolved after the war through trade agreements and Marshall aid. Now we see that the resistance to free trade is increasing on both the left and the right sides of both Europe and the United States. Important areas for Norway should therefore be to support labour standards and to contribute to a more balanced distribution in the countries where we provide assistance. Work on tax havens should also, in my view, be a key priority for Norway. Unfortunately, the Land Power Plan had no impact on the defence budget for 2018. So we have adopted two entire budgets in the Grand Duchy, without the long-term plan having implications for the country's power, and that violates the entire principle of long-term defence planning. Increased ambitions must be pursued in every budget. We want to strengthen the activity of the Army and the Home Office in this budget. In my opinion, the government should be involved. They themselves write that there should be an increase in activity in the Air Force and the Maritime Defense, and that's good, but they don't say anything about an increase in activity in the Army. That's not good enough. There we have greater ambitions. Unfortunately, we did not get a majority for that in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2971	Ensuring safe, good and forward-looking jobs is absolutely fundamental to people's security. Work for all is therefore one of the areas on which the Workers' Party is committed in its alternative state budget. And we believe that the policy must facilitate far more powerful job creation than is the case now. For the situation is quite demanding. The lack of job growth in recent years actually confirms very clearly that the government has been conducting a failed business policy. We are therefore proposing a large-scale investment of 2.5 billion in our alternative state budget. to create new jobs and to get more from social security to work. In our alternative state budget, we can read that we are investing in marine industries, environmental technologies and new industries such as bioeconomy and health and welfare technologies. We're putting hundreds of millions on the table to develop business in the districts. We want to start a skills reform, and we also propose 2,000 new places of action to get people into work. We propose a much better option tax than the government proposed, which was met with massive criticism. We will also set up a regional accelerator programme to strengthen the access to capital for growth enterprises. Yeah, this is just something. The Prime Minister said at the end of his speech here today that there are the results that count. Yes, in business policy, at least the results are missing, and I think we can stress that what has been going on in the last few years in the field of industrial policy, creating more job growth, is a total failure. In the last four years, the transition has been a mantra with no specific government content — a message from both Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. The conversion is not successful because it is weak. There is no direction, and too many are out of the labour market. Job growth is weak. If we are to reach the level of employment from 2013 in 2019, we need to set up more than 50,000 more jobs than the government expects for 2019. In other words, we need to pursue a much more active job creation policy across the country. Therefore, the word ‘conversion’ must, in a strong contrast to the government’s passive approach, be filled in with content. To mention some areas from our alternative budget: we are spending far more than the government on environmentally friendly shipping. Zero-emission ferries are a string. It is good climate policy and essential for increased activity in the maritime industry, and not least at our yards. Part of the maritime cluster is still in a very demanding market situation, and we believe that a much stronger commitment to the renewal of the ferry is now quite correct. Another dimension is that we have over time had a systematic approach to climate-friendly shipping through the use of LNG. Norway has become a leader. And until now we've been. However, it is most admirable – or surprising – that the government is now proposing a change in the framework conditions by introducing full CO 2 tax, which will stop technology development, will increase emissions from Norwegian shipping and will weaken the competitiveness of an overall Norwegian maritime industry. There is now a reason to believe that the project will be stopped. Ships with LNG as their propulsion are added to berths while older diesel and oil ships are fired. Understand the one who can. We therefore do not propose an increase in the CO 2 tax for this, as the government suggests. As far as the Eco-Technology Scheme is concerned, there is a low-threshold offer for enterprises to invest in environmental and climate technologies. We're proposing 250 million. more than the government's bet there, precisely because we want to help businesses and businesses to put into practice and further develop both climate and environmental technologies that can bring us into the low-carbon society. Another area that is quite essential is the government's cut in the allocation for carbon capture and storage. It's very unfortunate, a wrong signal, has created a lot of uncertainty in the industry and is pulling us in the wrong direction. Weak job growth needs to be replaced and replaced by greater success in creativity and opportunities. We must therefore pursue a much more active industrial policy based on the great opportunities we have. We have to help businesses and the good ideas by being a good partner for business and the good ideas. We need to develop skills and test arenas. We need to reduce risks and create added value out of the amazing natural resources that are all over the country. Yes, it is absolutely necessary that the weak industrial policy of the government, which does not contribute to good enough job creation, be replaced by a much more offensive policy for safe, forward-looking jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e2998	The government has put forward a government budget that facilitates growth in the economy, more people get to work, and a sustainable welfare society. We have spent a hard time, as the dramatic fall in the oil price has had a major impact on the Norwegian economy. In the oil and gas industries, several tens of thousands of jobs were lost, and for many individuals and families the situation is still difficult, especially in the south and west. For this reason, the government continues to make targeted efforts for those outside the labour market. Especially among our young people, we are now strengthening the follow-up through Nav and expanding youth action. Business has had to undergo a strong change over the last few years. This change will have to continue in the years to come. In such a transition period, it is particularly important that the state is a co-player. The government therefore implements targeted action packages targeted at the vulnerable parts of the country and will continue to lower taxes on enterprises and Norwegian jobs, so that businesses themselves can retain more of their own earned money. We should not forget that it is not the Storting or the government that creates jobs in this country. It's companies, entrepreneurs and business that make sure that most of us have a job to go to – a job that in turn generates income for our common welfare community. As politicians, we have the task of standing in the least possible way for those who want to create and get to something. If our businesses get to keep more of their own earned money, there's more left to create new jobs. I am opposed to a policy where we take more into account from the companies around the country, and then to distribute it again from an office in Oslo. If an active policy of centralisation is to be implemented, the best thing to do is to lose business in the districts for money. Such a policy does not support the Right. In the financial setting, we will be able to read in the Workers' Party's comments on page 287: ‘The commitment to digitisation is very weak, we have got more bureaucracy, more forms and reports, and no major reforms have been implemented.’ It's hard for me to understand – and I think at least I have the Senter party with me when I say that I don't understand anything. I think there are several people who cannot fully understand this, including the Workers' Party itself. If there had not been any major reforms in the last four years, how could the leader of the Workers' Party go out to the VG in March this year and tell which of these he wanted to reverse if he were to become Prime Minister? And not enough, he gave his own assessment of eight of the reforms and measures that this government has taken – all the way from municipal reform to New Roads and across the border of absenteeism. If not changing a municipal structure from the 1960s is a major reform, I don't know what it takes to qualify for it. It is not that the government does not carry out reforms, it is just that we do not carry out the reforms of the Labour Party, which I live with very well. When this government implements reforms, it's right that it's not always for saving money. But if you can spend the money we already allocate to different bets today, in a better way and we get more for each krona, this is something that will in the long run make the services better, and also save money, even though we very often see that the reforms free up funds in other parts of the government budget. For example, we don't want to pay sick money if patients can choose a private health offer at the country's expense, with shorter waiting time, to get to work faster. We will avoid spending money on follow-up and social benefits if more young people complete secondary school because of the absence limit, and if more young people get apprenticeship space with the strong increase in the apprenticeship grant. We can build the same roads for $10 billion less with the road company New Roads, money that we can spend on other important measures. Through the reform of the municipality, stronger municipalities can be built, which in turn provide better services, such as: faster processing of construction, which facilitates business and increases activity and thereby increases tax revenue. It's the left-hand trade mark that only bets that can get an entry on the state budget are worth talking about. I challenge the left-hand side to think differently. There are measures such as the absence limit, which are completely free of charge but which will have an impact on the budgets. This government shows that it's possible to think new and different about the money we're already using, and it's essential that we keep doing it in the years that are coming. In my opinion, the government's heading of this year's government budget should be the heading of this grossing-up period. When we don't have that goal, we've failed in our work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3020	Proximity, security and prevention are important keywords for the Centre Party, but unfortunately we have a budget for justice that bears the mark that performance projects and cheese needs are more important than security and proximity where people live. The central party's biggest bet on the judiciary is the police. Then I don't think the government's definition of near-police, which in public opinion has been renamed the remote police. Our neighbourhood police are visible, close and present where people live. It is a close police force working on prevention, and it has the resources to follow up both citizens, single events and organised crime in an increasingly complex form of criminal proceedings. We have criticised all the time the police reform, which is centralizing and anti-diversity, and which means that the police are being distanced from communities all over Norway. But now the reform becomes a fact. The government has launched the biggest police reform in recent times, without following up with sufficient resources. The government itself writes in its budget proposal that, in the future, demanding priorities must be made in all police districts, with the need to upgrade ICT, new equipment and recruitment of both police, police and civil society. However, these priorities have been left by the government to the individual police officer, without being accompanied by free resources that allow any priority to be given. It's a huge discharge. An increase in free resources is required. The government can't deliver on it. The economic space of police districts has been severely weakened in recent years, for the sake of growth in the use of consultants and in the Police Directorate. For the Central Party, it is important to enable the local police financially to do their tasks in a good way. So we've added an increase of 500 million. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The proposed cut to volunteering in the field of justice was also hopeless. The centre party is pleased that these have been withdrawn. We believe that volunteering is an important contribution in the rule of law, and at a very low cost to society compared to the cost-saving effects that come back. That is why we have included in our alternative state budget a strengthening of non-governmental organisations in both criminal justice, preparedness and special legal assistance. We also see a critical waste of money in the field of criminal care, especially related to the rental of prison sites in the Netherlands at a cost of 300 million. kr annually. In the budget of the Centre Party, we have not put in the funds to renew this lease. Instead, we will spend the money on improving operation in Norwegian prisons and building prisons in Norway. The central party disagrees that it is a good idea to rent prisons in the Netherlands. We believe that it is a discharge from the fundamental responsibility of the State for its own citizens and for criminal justice. However, even if the agreement was criticised by many teams, it was concluded with the argument that it should be a temporary agreement, because there was a very urgent need to cut down the reconciliation queue. Here in Stortinget the representative said Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, from the Christian People's Party, among others. that he thought he could really say that no one wants to use places in the Netherlands. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party participated in giving the government's proposal to hire a majority. Now the urgent need for renting places in the Netherlands has fallen. We have 284 vacancies in Norwegian prisons, of the same type as the 242 places we rent in the Netherlands. Therefore, the centre batch is crystal clear that this system must cease to exist as soon as possible. We see that the system is also at the expense of criminal justice in Norway. It's been cut at almost 150 million. on operational budgets in prisons here in Norway. At the same time, considerable resources are also being used in Norwegian prisons to find and transport prisoners that may be relevant to the Netherlands. The manning situation is critical — we have received many warnings — and the number of cases of violence and threats in prisons is increasing. It's going to be safe. The Minister of Justice should really be given the title of the Minister of Statistics, for every single time we hear about events that illustrate the critical situation we have in criminal matters now, we are told that everything is going brilliantly because the reconciliation queue is gone – or there is another statistic that he can hide behind, and cover up the reality he does not want to talk about. The Right Party and the Advance Party should be very concerned about the content of Norwegian criminal justice. With the Code of Criminal Care of the Advance Party, we are going to create a tougher society, with more crime and high relapse rates. As the head of the Bureau said, we are at risk of releasing prisoners who are at least as dangerous as they were when they were put in.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3043	Education is essential for increasing employment and reducing social security, for meeting digitisation with policies that provide people with opportunities, for resolving the climate crisis and for balancing differences between people. Therefore, kindergarten, school and education are winners in the Workers' Party's alternative budget – especially children and young people, where we propose a 2 billion bet. kr more than the Right and Advance Party. We want 1,300 new teachers in 2018, more intensive learning through reading, writing and computing guarantees and a more practical school. For the Workers' Party, early work in the kindergarten begins. We clearly say no to the unsocial increase in the nursery price of the government, while at the same time betting on increased quality. The most important quality concerns several qualified adults. Where the government proposes minimal growth in the proportion of kindergarten teachers, we want half of all kindergarten employees to be teachers. We propose a professional billionaire with better equipment and more practice for students. We propose a much stronger effort against bullying and harassment. This budget shows that today's government does not use the possibilities it has to equip Knowledge Norway for the future. In five years, the Right Party and the Advance Party have spent 1 000 billion. oil crowns and school results are missing. The government has, however, had a slightly larger reform for the school, by increasing appropriations for continuing education and training. That's good, and there's full agreement in Stortinget on that bet. But there are few results to show. The secondary school drop-out is almost unchanged. Recruitment to the profession has fallen. There are now 3 000 fewer students in the profession in Norway than when Erna Solberg became prime minister. The work of using digitalisation as an opportunity at school involves mouse-skritting, and there are too few teachers trained. Especially the last one is serious. We really have a double teacher crisis. First of all, fewer people are applying for the first to seventh grade teacher training. We don't get to fill the teacher training with the teachers we need. Secondly, there are fewer and fewer men in school. The Labour Party believes that there is a need for vigorous action. Let's start by introducing a new national recruitment campaign to get more people applying for teacher training, especially men. Let's raise the status of teachers, show them confidence and give them better time to be teachers. If we're going to get to the last one, we're going to need more teachers in school. Recruitment of teachers is now more important than ever. One of the biggest innovations in the budgetary agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left was the introduction of a teacher's norm. Several better-time teachers may be one of the most important measures for the Workers' Party in education policy. That is why we have proposed 3,000 more teachers this ageing period – massive efforts at early school and kindergarten. The working party wants a standard that ensures that the money is spent on increasing teacher's density, and that also gives the opportunity to help those who need it the most, in those schools that need it the most. I would say that if the budget unit leads to an increase in teacher's density in school, it is very positive. I would like to applaud the efforts of the Christian People's Party for more teachers and their success in the negotiations. But we also have to ask questions about how this teaching norm is now going to be put into practice. Firstly, for the next half of the year, the clearest opponents of a standard of teacher's density are to investigate and introduce it. It is, moreover, the same government that in its own budgets did not allocate funds to a single new teaching position. That's why there's reason to follow closely. Secondly, the municipalities do not yet know how to design the norm or whether it is funded. The government itself is not sure about the costs, it is going to figure out the numbers, and we don't know how far the money is spent in 2018, reaching. Only in the revised national budget, to be submitted in May and adopted in June, will the municipalities hopefully be able to clarify what is contained in such a norm and what is required of the municipalities. The important thing now is that the municipalities that are going to employ hundreds or thousands of new teachers get money for it. An underfunded norm will make the impact of the Christian People's Party an empty victory and create great challenges for the municipalities. So far, the signals from the government parties have not been reassuring. Even after the budgetary agreement has been signed, both the Prime Minister, the Deputy Minister of Knowledge and the repatriated Minister of Knowledge have expressed themselves highly critical of the norm. The Right Party and the Advance Party can of course mean what they want, but the government must follow up, not train. The first and most important piece of work in our alternative budget is to spend enough money, because we want the students who need it to actually get enough teachers with better time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3066	We have a culture minister who thinks typically Norwegian is waffles and brown cheese. The work party is very for waffles and brown cheese, and some of us have eaten a little too much waffles during life, but leave it lying. What describes Norway best is hard work, hard work, hard work. On the morning of the presentation of the State budget, the Minister of Culture said that the budget had a clear profile, where it was voluntary. The Minister of Culture obviously did not attend the same budgetary conference as the rest of the government. Here are a number of reactions: If the government budget is adopted, all the great coraction will be damaged. They cut to the weakest. A budget that's grayer than the bottom line of the Snowman movie. The list is long. The government's message of volunteering was cut, cut and even more cut. We have a volunteer minister who has forgotten the voluntary declaration. Voluntary activities include sports and small children's parents who, in a hectic everyday life, put up and bake cakes at the clubhouse, the club manager who serves the children, even on Christmas Eve, if necessary. Voluntaryness is the diverse cultural life we have in Norway, such as choral singing, the greatest cultural activity, the spreading of song joys for all generations. They do this so that your and my children will have a good and safe growth. This bulking should be grateful for the job they do every day. It's sad that we have a government that works against and not with volunteering. We have a government that, over and over again, in the state budget after the state budget, is dependent on other parties on the Stortinget to save the volunteer. The Workers' Party is making a significant contribution to volunteering in its alternative state budget because it is the backbone of the Norwegian society. It means earmarked money to take back the drain on new sports facilities and more for VAT compensation. We support youth organisations with growth and activity, so that our children get good and active communities where all children, regardless of the size of their mother and father's wallet, can participate. We listen to the museum and cultural institutions, in which people spend countless hours of labor, and which give pleasure to many, those who care for Norwegian cultural heritage and history. From the Workers' Party we would like to say a thousand thanks for the job they do every day. We're going to work with them and not against them. If Norway is to succeed, we are dependent on high employment. If we are to succeed in integration and equality, the message to immigrant women must be the following: in Norway you will learn Norwegian, and you will be out in the labour market. We have a government that sends higher child care bills to families where both adults are working and contribute taxes to the community, while to those families, often immigrant families, where only one adult is working, they are told to give you 163,000 kroner of taxpayers' money so that you do not participate in the work and that you do not send your kids to kindergarten so that they can learn Norwegian at school. Cash support is a poverty trap. In my city, Drammen, we are now at the top of the proportion of children in poor families, often because of only one adult working. We see the same thing in Oslo. In several of Oslo's urban areas, about half of the children receive cash support. The working party does not get a majority to completely remove the cash support on Stortinget and replace it with enough nursery facilities. In Oslo and in Drammen, there is a recognition – cross-political – that cash support inhibits integration and inhibits employment, as the government itself says. Therefore, we propose changes to the scheme so that municipalities such as Oslo and Drammen can apply for local winding-up in favour of kindergartens and employment measures. If we continue with the naïve policy, we will create a new generation with sustained low income and a subclass. This is when Norway has to take action. We have to make clear demands on what kind of Norway we want. This is why we believe that this great cross-political process can clearly take action and support the Workers' Party's proposal for changes to cash support, so that the message to immigrant women is: In Norway, the workline is – it is important for your independence, for the family economy and for the country you live in, Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3091	Its mission is to ensure good health and quality of life for all those living in Norway. Compared to most other countries, we have managed to create a society where possible. Over the next generation there will be twice as many over 70 years, and it means more life to live for very many. But still it is that where a living, the level of education of parents and the family economy you grow up in is vital for health and for how long you get to be healthy and living. The most serious thing is that differences between those with good and those with poor health are increasing in Norway. Although we live longer, the prevalence of so-called non-infectious and more lifestyle-related diseases, heart disease, type 2 diabetes, cancer, lung disease, and not least mental disorders is increasing. The World Health Organization says we have an epidemic that spreads from country to country. 60 pst. of all deaths in the world are now caused by non-infectious diseases. In Norway, the figure is close to 80pst, and there are still obvious social differences. Psychiatric un-health is increasingly the cause of non-response and of disease reports, and we have a lot of knowledge of how to meet this epidemic. People’s diseases are linked to lack of physical activity and an unhealthy diet, mental health problems caused by school bullying, care failure, violence and abuse in close relationships. It is well documented that prevention and, in particular, the wide range of interventions that reach all are the most health-promoting and welfare gains. It is better for the individual and for the community to prevent rather than repair. All of this is about public health. There's one in our budget. The Labour Party prioritises the broad and most effective measures, and we pay for them in our proposals. The fine words are followed up with clear priorities, as opposed to those of the Right Party and the Advance Party. The need for patients to receive good treatment in our hospitals is also growing with these trends, even if we succeed in preventing them effectively. Health challenges therefore need to be addressed by several strategies. Hospitals need financial predictability so that they can invest more in equipment and in employees to work smarter, so that more patients are treated without experiencing unnecessary waiting during their treatment. The Workers' Party believes that a 12-billion-dollar reinforcement. The next major period will allow the management of Norwegian hospitals to exercise wise leadership and, together with the employees, to be able to carry out a switch to better patient care. We believe it is so obvious that we should have had a broad political agreement on this, to strengthen the hospital budgets with a long term of four years. In the next few years, major construction projects will be carried out in all our health regions, and new expensive medicines will be emerging that challenge hospital priorities. There will be an enormous need to invest in more employees, in technology, in digital solutions and, in particular, in new ICT systems. Care and care for a few people who live there. The Labour Party shares the concern expressed by the municipalities of the country and the employees of the health and care services. Several older people who live longer provide many more active older people, but it also greatly increases the need for care services. Despite the enormous growth in oil use, Norway has neglected the task of preparing for this in recent years. The draft budget of the Workers' Party has a completely different pace of commitment to good hospitals, medical care, good care and health technologies and effective prevention. If we wait too long with this bet, many will be hit. Unfortunately, it seems that the Right Party and the Advance Party do not take it into account, and billions are still prioritizing to the richest and increasing differences in health. If the community doesn't set up, some of them could pay for themselves. It seems that the right parties believe that there is a good scouring. It doesn't concern them anymore, but it means that many will fall outside, and it's unacceptable for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3106	The Labour Party will use the whole country, and we will strengthen and develop jobs to meet challenges in the future. The working party will, among other things: develop the transport sector in order to achieve these objectives – by strengthening public transport and rail, developing broadband across the country and strengthening fishing and coastal infrastructure as well as tailoring. The vision of the Workers' Party is that Norway should be linked and that infrastructure should be developed in order to strengthen business and this coherence throughout the country. The NSB has been modernised for many years, but we are now seeing a fragmentation and fragmentation of the rail sector and a very widespread outsourcing of competition. The working party is quite clear that the competitive outsourcing of train traffic is to be discontinued. An effective urban policy requires a strengthening of public transport, and the Workers' Party proposes that 70 pst. the investment costs of these projects shall be borne by the State. It will lead to faster implementation and a better offer in our big cities. In a modern society, broadband is a prerequisite. The working party aims at a huge lift to expand broadband across the country. The government has halved the aid and only added 70 million. kr. The priority of the working party is to spend half a billion on this important area. We do that because we know that no industries can develop without access to broadband. If new jobs are to be created, broadband has to be available. Norway is changing, including in business. The oil money will gradually bring less revenue to the country. There are other industries that have to carry the nation on their shoulders. But we in Norway are so lucky that we actually have other industries that can take over and that can carry the nation on their shoulders. We have many renewable natural resources, not least in relation to the sea. In this context, it is completely incomprehensible that the government is depriving the coast of aid by halving it to fishing ports, from 62 million. DKK for the previous year to 31 million. kr this year, as well as ensuring that the budget of the Coastal Plant is reduced in real terms. The government's desire to transfer the fishing ports to the county municipalities will mean that the planning capacity and competence of the Coastal Plant are confused. The Labour Party believes that providing infrastructure related to ports and fairways is a State task that will allow maritime industries to develop and contribute to new and profitable industries along the coast. As a result, there is expenditure on the acquisition of income, and the potential in this area is high. The working party therefore proposes 200 million. kr for the start-up and planning of ports along the coast and for the transfer of more goods from land to sea. In the transport sector, it is important to take into account the climate challenges and the changes they bring about, inter alia. increasing the extent of race and pace. We all know that this is an area that requires increased effort, and from the Workers' Party's side, we set aside 100 million. kr more than the government for this purpose. The Labour Party wants safer roads, safer school roads and several walking and cycling paths to ensure that all traffickers in Norway, as well as to strengthen jobs at sea and land through coastal deployment and strengthening broadband development. In our draft budget, we provide a budget that will help to achieve these objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3129	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3135	An important feature of the Norwegian society that most people appreciate is that there are small differences between people. It hasn't come of itself. That is the result of political decisions, largely against the votes of the right parties. Today's right parties are trying, unfortunately with a certain hell, to rewrite their own bad story. It could have been forgiven, if the intention was to highlight that they now represent a different course. But they don't. At the Højres Sundvolden conference last year, Prime Minister Erna Solberg said that a society with too many differences is a society that slows growth and well-being. When presenting the state budget for 2018, Siv Jensen said that this is ‘a budget for economic growth, more in jobs and a sustainable welfare society’. What they're looking at is the numbers from the SSB, which show that the differences are increasing sharply on their guard. The proportion of children living in families with persistently low incomes has now increased to 10 pst. Nor was it problematized by the social minister when she made comments before today. There are two possible reasons for such a lack of coherence, and the Labour Party fundamentally disagrees with both. One is that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance actually believe that the social differences are not at such a high level that they slow down growth and well-being, thus giving the bluff. The second is that the Right Party and the Advance Party, in their belief in market forces, actually believe that the market also takes care of the poor. But the market has never done that. Political governance has to do to ensure a society that includes everyone. The truth is probably both -- they don't care, they don't see. Don't listen to what they're saying, but look at what they're doing, says an old wisdom word. And what do they do? They create new differences. Take the previous period: remove non-life insurance, end-of-life tax, cut pay and holiday pay to people who lose their jobs, cut the child allowance to 18 000 unemployed, cut care and care allowances, cut the social security rates of nearly 150 million. kr, well camouflaged as a lack of price adjustment, cut to car for disabled persons, depriving refugees of the right to an old-age and disability pension, to mention something. And it continues in 2018: new cut in daily allowances, cut in contribution advances for single dependants, cut in social security rates and labour market measures, cut for commuters. Norway's richest has got billions of tax cuts straight down in the wallet. Norway’s poorest has received billions in social security — not into, but out of the wallet. The Christian People's Party has managed to stop something, but there are still three budgets left in this period. The working party hopes the entire opposition can work together to reintroduce a fairer distribution of the goods than the Right and Advance Party stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3150	That's not all we know for sure about the future, but what we know is that we're going to need more skilled workers. We need someone who can build houses, someone who can make sure that the electronics work, and someone who can provide safe and good health care to our older people. Professionals build the country, and without professionals Norway stops. If we are to solve the major societal challenges, secure value creation and create a sustainable welfare society for the future, more people will have to choose a profession. But how? First, we need to do more with the advice. It may not be that they with the best grades, regardless of what they themselves wish, meet the expectations of choosing a preparatory student. Others have to be advised to choose to become a skilled worker. Secondly, training needs to become more practical and relevant. It must be better linked with what meets the students in the workplace. For this reason, we apply professional rights to education in the common subjects and allow more teachers to visit a company to get up to date on the latest. And that's why we set up the Lektor 2 system for professional subjects, where professionals from industry and working life are more included in the teaching of the students. Third, to get more people to choose a profession, we need to make sure that they have a place to learn. For this reason, the government and the cooperation parties have increased the apprenticeship grant by NOK 21 000 per contract, making it easier for companies to recruit apprentices. We are demanding apprentices in public tenders, as well as public tenders. We raise the status and recruit more apprenticeships. And in this context, I have to say that I'm very proud to be from Rogaland, which is the state of the country that's best at getting the students a place to study. Good advice, practical and relevant training and multiple learning places are three important steps taken by the government to increase the number of skilled workers. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have raised the vocational and vocational schools by over 600 million. And we're going to do even more. Now let's add over 70 million. kr – 2018 will be the year of the professionals. With the right in government, we get more good trade union workers. Together, we build the country and create a sustainable welfare society for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3169	Taking care of our elders is one of our all, all the most important common tasks. The working party prioritises good care and health care. At all events, all those who need the community to set up when they need help must be guaranteed valuable services and security. The most important thing in care is resources, employees, time and competence. 'The Community economy is strong', said the Chairman of the Committee, Astrup, when he started the debate today. Astrup and I have a rather different perception of what reality is. It may be good to hear what KS said when the budget was presented: «The community structure faces several municipalities and county councils with major challenges, as they will have a real decline in the free income, because the growth of income does not keep pace with cost developments.» [[...]] I don't think that's so strong, except that there's a strong diet from KS – which can sometimes be a bit round at the edges, I think. This was obvious. For many municipalities it becomes difficult to maintain today's offer, among other things. to older caregivers. That's why the Workers' Party has added 2 billion. kr more to the primary municipalities – 2 billion. NOK – plus 1 billion. to counties in addition to the government. In addition to having too little money in transfers to hospitals, nursing homes and the State grant scheme, the government shall cut out money for rehabilitation projects. It's very negative for many municipalities. Nor does the government understand the need for a strong commitment to health and welfare technologies. We want 1 billion. Over four years and showing this in the first financial year. We also want 1.4 billion. kr more to the hospitals. In my homelands, Hedmark and Uppland, it means over 70 million. kr, and we wanted, among other things, could have benefited greatly from the money for prehospital services and decentralised offers. Finally, I have to mention broadband. When I hear the Left's representative standing up here and saying it's the budget winner, I would like to remind you that it's 80 million. kr that has been raised to 70 million. kr. That's 150 million. NOK, which is 10 million. kr less than that in the pot five to six years ago. We have 500 million. kr only in 2018! So it's incredibly bad that the Norwegian people, and in particular District Norway, don't get it for Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3185	Today, when we're going to land the fifth budgetary unit in a row between the bourgeois parties, we're actually going to leave behind a period of time of knowledge in Norway. Although we as different parties could think of a different device in some areas of intervention, there is no doubt that children, students, students, adults and the business community have benefited from the government shift since 2013. It's a pleasure to see that already our kids are learning more, that the drop-out is going down, that in both the private and the public sectors it's being researched as never before, and that those who want to stretch a little bit, or those who hang out a little bit, all get better help and support now than not too many years ago. In the past, where we received late efforts and measures aimed at the end of primary school and into high school, there are now four parties that stand together to raise too early efforts. Where we focused on the number of places in the past, we now have a boost for the quality of kindergarten and increased accessibility for families with low incomes. The aim is that regardless of the family background, children should be seen, supported when needed, and inspired to go further. We're going to stretch out, that is, to give all children a better starting point in life, while laying the foundation for good learning into the childhood. Because it's about ensuring a better starting point for everyone to learn how to read, write and calculate so well that building on further in school will make it easier for everyone. Now, when we carry out the uplifting of the times, we continue to invest in the further training of thousands of teachers, and so we're raising the initial training of all children. In this context, there should actually be a thought that early efforts for the Workers' Party are cutting 300 million. kr to private kindergartens. Not only is it an unprofessional invasion, which actually puts the effort of the Workers' Party in a strange light, it is also a strong left triangle and symbol policy and actually a mockery of the many who have stood by day and night to give all children in Norway a nursery place. I have a lot more. The bourgeois parties have provided solid support in several areas, including: in professional, higher education and research, but overall, the knowledge budget is about taking our kids seriously. It's about creating. a sustainable society in which everyone has opportunities and lives where they can contribute back to society a sustainable society in which we ensure that future migration can be met by a knowledge-rich generation dealing with new technologies and tasks and seeing new solutions a sustainable society in which we research and develop new ideas and find better solutions to tomorrow's opportunities It requires a strong commitment and a knowledge budget provided by four non-socialist parties – for the benefit of our kids and the opportunities ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3208	A sustainable budget could be so incredibly much better, with the frameworks that are now. But it's a little fun to hear the Right stand up here now and talk about kindergartens – they haven't exactly been any proponents in the fight for kindergartens for all children. They have also not just gone ahead in the fight to have manning standards, either in kindergarten or in school. That's absolutely necessary. I lead the municipal committee, and yesterday I was asked to answer a questionnaire from the municipal report, which has now interviewed rapporteurs around the country and the beach, where 52 p.m. Now they say they have to man down. They have to downgrade in exactly what the representative from the Right now was up and talking about: kindergarten, school and care for the elderly – which almost nobody has talked about here, and which I'm going to try to get a little time for, because that's important. If we had now got a fairer tax system, we could have enabled several thousand people to get out of poverty. They had done better, and it had been productive. It had increased the economic growth of society. We could stick to the objectives of emissions reduction, so that our children could see future encounters – yes, not just stick to the targets, but actually achieve them. There's a lot missing from the government to make sure we're safe. We could get more teachers, more nurses and more health professionals instead of several millionaires. We could buy wool blankets and food for helpless refugees and pick up a few more of those who are freezing and starving in the refugee camps, to Norway. KS was even in consultation with the municipal committee this year and asked if we could not receive a little more quota refugees, because, as they say, we have the capacity to do so. Yes, we have it – we have finances, and we have capacity, it's just the heart space that's missing. I am pleased that the Left and Christian People's Party has put in place a few more in the budget agreement. That's good. But SV has chosen to respond to what the United Nations has asked us to do, namely 5,000 more quota refugees. It's not the whole world – Norway was fine. So there's a lot of things we could do with the money that the government has at its disposal, and that they're using so weirdly. For the really big bet the government has, is on tax bills, as they say – or can't prove anything else but that someone gets richer, and that someone gets poorer. I don't know how long they're going to stand here and keep saying that we're going to have a society of small differences, because completely systematic, step by step, they're working for increased differences -- big jafs with the tax havens, little jafs with very unsocial cuts for those who work the most in society. I could also have talked about the legal aid. It's perhaps one of the most serious things: taking legal aid from those who are powerless.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3221	The history of the Norwegian welfare state is the history of democracy and this hall, which has dared to make long-term and visionary choices. It's about the belief that we can actually create a better society together through politics. That's why we've made sure that we can own a natural resource like the hydropower in it. That's why we have made sure that we rebuilt the whole country after World War II, and that we set up the State Borrowing Fund to give young people, regardless of the size of their parents' wallet, an equal chance of getting education. That's the way to solve societal problems, and there are major societal problems we're going to solve in the coming years. Among other things, there is now a third of the adult population who are out of work. Half of the country's 17-year-olds do not get summer jobs, while in the early 2000s it was 75 pst. who got it, and it's a systematic child from the richest families who put first in that queue as well. It is clear that Norwegian democracy must once again dry up using active policies to solve the societal problems. Then I wonder when we have as big problems as we have to solve why we have such a passive government. The only answer I can find is that in this government there is an ideological belief that it is the market that is going to solve it, not democracy. The proposal of the Labour Party on how to use the money in Norway in the next year is therefore – at a point-by-point level – directed towards more jobs and the distribution of values. Let me give you three examples. It is about everyone having access to the same basic infrastructure in Norway. In today's society, it means broadband. That's why we want to spend money, together, investing in the modern infrastructure. It is about creating new jobs, while reducing greenhouse gas emissions. That's why we're dealing with a big investment in environmental technology, where we both achieve these two things at once. It is a fundamental part of our welfare state: a strong public health system. That's why we in the Workers' Party believe in a social democracy, where we actually use the opportunity that lies in this Chamber to solve social problems. Norway can do better than the social development we now see. That's why we also need a better government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3244	We in the Christian People's Party are very pleased that, through the budgetary agreement with the Right, the Progress Party and the Left, we have strengthened the budget appropriations for the Ministry of Agriculture and Food by 105.5 million. kr. On 16 June of this year, the Storting authorised the conclusion of an agreement with the EU on the extension of trade in agricultural products under Article 19 of the EEA Agreement. As a result of the lapse of export subsidies on Jarlsbergost and the increase in the duty-free quota for EU cheese, by 2020 we will have a decline of up to 130 million litres of milk from Norwegian producers. Therefore, it was important for the majority to clarify in a request decision that the government had to promote compensatory measures for the financial year 2018, inter alia. to facilitate the transition to a tighter milk market for Norwegian farmers. We in the Christian People's Party therefore entered into the budgetary negotiations with the aim of setting up a multiannual fund for the conversion of milk production. We wanted a fund to be used as an investment grant to users who have to make large conversion investments due to the changes mentioned in the trade policy framework conditions and that conversion for dairy farming with 15 to 30 cows was prioritised. After the negotiations with the government parties on a budgetary settlement, we have to admit that we did not fully achieve our ambitions. We proposed 150 million. kr in 2018 to such a conversion fund, while the budget agreement says that it is set at 75 million. kr for investment aid for agriculture and only for the financial year 2018. However, we are pleased that the conciliation implies that these funds should not be added as an additional pot during the agricultural process. This means that the government will meet us in our demand that this be defined as fresh funds outside the agricultural agreement. As far as we've gained experience, it's the first time it happens, and the sum of 75 million. kr represents well over 10 pst. of the total annual agricultural settlement framework. We also wanted a multi-annual investment fund. We did not get there in the negotiations with the government either. Thus, the Christian People's Party does not see itself done with the job of securing better conditions for Norwegian farmers in meeting a tighter milk market. We have this as the starting point for future constructive negotiations with the government, both in the course of Storting's treatment of the agricultural settlement in 2018 and in budgetary negotiations in the years to come. We're also satisfied that the government is complying with our demand and added 30.5 million into the budget. kr in support of organisations working in agricultural and food policy areas. It is the second year in a row that the government is acting across clear signals from the Storting that the support to the organisations will continue, and we hope that we will release more rematches in the future. It creates great frustration for thousands of volunteers who make a great effort to promote the importance of good animal welfare, well-being through care of animals and plants, the exploitation of food that would otherwise have been wasted, and other societal purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3263	The 2018 government budget is a budget for economic growth, more jobs and a budget for a sustainable welfare society. The budgetary agreement between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party continues the main profile of the government's proposal and further strengthens the entrepreneurial policy, climate policy and social profile. The four parties to this budgetary agreement have shown that they can take responsibility in difficult times and at the same time ensure that Norway is prepared for the future. This government is focusing on the areas that are most important for the welfare of the future. It focuses on research and education, road and rail, entrepreneurs and businesses, health services, simplification and migration, both for public and business. We want even more opportunities in Norwegian society. We help those who are outside, we give priority to increasing efforts to tackle child poverty, and we strengthen child protection. Work on early school work is reinforced, and we provide tax incentives to promote growth and investment in Norwegian jobs. Especially happy is the fact that in this budget we got a majority to phase out the so-called machine tax, a matter for which the Right and Business have worked for a number of years. Removing this tax will bring great relief to industry and secure jobs and, above all, facilitate new start-ups. For the Agder states, this is a very important matter in view of the possible establishment of data centres. The county has large hydropower resources and is close to the continent. Actors on both the List and Vennesla are already well-informed on the development and development plans. Lower electricity taxes, measures to build new fibre cables and the removal of machine taxes lead to a significant improvement in the framework conditions for this industry. Today’s government is pursuing a policy to strengthen Norway’s growth capacity and secure jobs, and to ensure that we can maintain well-being also for the generations that come after us.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3278	«Good health throughout life» was the title we put in this year's budget work in the municipality of Ski. It sounds good to me because it's good for the individual and because it's good for society. Good health, learning, work and value creation are interrelated. In particular, there are two things that are important to make a commitment to good health throughout life: a good community economy and a good hospital economy. Unfortunately, the government doesn't deliver on any of the parts. Mr. Ingvild Kjerkol has given a good summary of the scant budgets of the hospitals. Let me take an example from the local economy. In a moving municipality that does not have a property tax, we have balanced the budget on a knife rod over several years. In fact, one demanding child protection case and one additional resource-intensive user can determine whether the budget is going in plus or minus. The government's Christmas gift to municipalities is to increase the ceiling for reimbursement to resource-intensive users and phase out the grant for rehabilitation of lucky day care facilities. Behind the label ‘resource-required user’, a daughter with a serious congenital disorder or a spouse who has experienced early dementia and uncaring behaviour may be concealed. In our day care centers, our parents and grandparents live. That's where they live the last part of their life. A lucky day's care room is a home. Should it be newly updated and updated, or worn out and inappropriate? Has the government forgotten that these arrangements are about people? It can work like this when the municipalities, which provide services to these people every day, are asked to squander more of the lemon. My hometown will lose millions of dollars on the government's conversions. It may not be so strange that the number of municipalities with property taxes has increased steadily under this government, a tax that one of the government parties has gone to choose to remove. It is quite fair to go to the elections to remove a tax, but then you also have to have a plan for how to compensate the municipalities. And if you don't have a plan, you have to be honest about the consequences. I very much sympathise with the rapporteur of the Progress Party at Hyler, Eivind Borge, who says that the option is fewer health homes and that the expectations of demands and capacity need to be lowered if property taxes are to disappear. Representatives from the government parties have today highlighted that they are non-socialist. I wonder when they'll realize that they're unsocial.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3289	Fisheries are important for Norway. The value of dry fish has built both Bergen and Nidarosdomen — and dry fish is a national law in Italy. The world's oldest image of a boat, the cobblestones in Efjord in Ballangen, shows that people in the north have been using boats for at least 11,000 years. In the budgetary agreement between the government and the Left and the Christian People's Party, I found one change which also benefits people in the fisheries after the government's budgetary negotiations. That's one thing that we in the Center Party have prioritised through our Coastal Lift, which is ten million. kr to new rescue skate in Finnmark. Unfortunately, this was the exception. Coastal measures were deprioritized throughout the previous period. It was a balancing item for the government and was far behind the level of the previous national transport plan. Unfortunately, we now see that the government continues to give priority to the coast. The contribution to fishing ports is only at half the level promised by the Progress Party when they presented the NTP before the elections. The contribution to fishing ports is halved from last year. But we know that good fishing ports are necessary to increase the value creation along the coast. The municipality of Nordland wants more power as a development actor, they want new tasks and asked for more authority as a substance of an otherwise hollow regional reform. But the county never asked to transfer the fishing ports. Still, that's what's happening. Fishing ports shall be transferred to the counties and the Coastal Plant shall be weakened. A lot is still unfinished. Which fishing ports are to be transferred is uncertain, but this is to be done on 1 January 2020. I would recommend that this not happen. But if it does, the government must, in line with good administration, deliver something that is in good condition. So the lack of subsidies to fishing ports surprises us who believe and know that fisheries can still provide great value creation along the coast and build our nation for a thousand more years. Could the lack of coastal investment be a new step in job number one for this government, namely the centralisation of Norway? I fear that fishing ports which should actually be lifted can rather be postponed on time. I fear that the economic growth of the county communities will not grow in parallel with the responsibility for the fishing ports. We have to have a coast lift, and we have to raise the investment. The centre party has increased the amount of the fairways and doubled the amount of the fishing ports, but the Christian People's Party and the Left had lower ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3301	Market regulation is the main input in implementing the green shift. The exemption of electric cars from VAT and other charges has created a market for this car, and we now have 120 000 electric cars running on our roads. But up to 2.7 million cars, which is the total number of cars in Norway, the electric car only contributes slightly – yet. But the ketchup effect can be close. Now the car manufacturers are starting to produce cars that can really speed up the electric car sales. There are cars for a different segment than today – not just Tesla, but car brands that are much cheaper. One third of private car owners want a car type that is large enough for an active family, has four-wheel drive, trailer attachment, high ground clearance and a long range. Or to make it easier: a lot of people dream about an SUV, an electric SUV. This car must necessarily weigh a few kilos, and therefore the tare weight cannot be decisive for the level of the charge. The same applies to the car that an electrician or a plumber should use in the job context. Craftsmen must be offered the opportunity to participate in the green shift. The left will help those who need the car, but a clear requirement should be that all cars sold after 2025 should be fossil-free. If we are to achieve this goal, we must stimulate the market. Charges for buying popular cars must be avoided in the coming years. The left has succeeded in this budgetary procedure. The green shift must be continued, and new technologies will also lead to green growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3312	One of the finest things about Norway is all the people who engage in volunteering or in civil society for those who need it the most. It could be in the Street Lawyer, in the NOAS, in the Jussbuss, in the Church's Bymition or in the Animal Protection Alliance. Common to all those in charge of these organizations is that the government's thanks are cut. It's an image of the pettyness this government stands for. Because while the country's richest has been given a trellis with tax bills, those who have the least meet with big cuts. Are the people really going to Matsentralen because they can't afford to buy food, who's going to meet with the savings knife to Siv Jensen? Because that's the reality of this government's policy, and then you really don't have to scratch your head and wonder why the differences between people are increasing. Siv Jensen tried to cut so much to the organisations that she even proposed to cut off all support for organisations from which the Prime Minister had used his New Year speech to boast. The Minister of Justice claimed that it was all a work accident, but the work accident was not the only one cut. The real problem is that this government systematically cuts to important organizations. And it's a pattern of government policy. If you disagree with the government, you meet with cut. It could be the Nobel Prize winner ICAN or the environmental movement. And you don't have to be conspiratory to see the pattern. No, the figures for the government themselves say: In the last period, an overall environmental movement criticised the government's environmental policy. The answer from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection was that he now thought that all support for the environmental movement should be cut, on the grounds that this play showed that they had become lazy and un knowledgeable. However, some who have supported much of the government's profile are the Human Rights Service, the organisation that has almost quadrupled its state aid following the 2013 election, or which Hege Storhaug stated after the 2013 decision: "We don't even need to apply for support. We just get the money after us." Human Rights Service gets integration support, but does everything but good integration work. The IMDi has proposed to remove the aid, but has been overrun by Sylvi Listhaug and the government. And this fall came what should really be the nail in the chest of state aid. They invited to a photo project that cannot be described as anything other than the persecution of Muslims. As a society, we had an opportunity to say that this harassment and persecution are not part of the government's funding. In this room there was a majority to do exactly that, but once again it is the Progress Party that has got to decide. Finally, after this state budget was presented, Jonas Gahr faced the Prime Minister with the cuts of the voluntary organizations. The Prime Minister then tried to hope that the Workers' Party was occupied with the small sums involved. It shows that the Prime Minister has not understood what this is all about. It's small sums, but for those that apply, it could be the whole difference. And when we have a government that doesn't care, they should at least know that the Workers' Party will stand up for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3326	When the government of Solberg joined in 2013, there was a great need for conversion in Norway. In the pre-existing period, hospital queues and the number of poor children increased. The number of young people out of work increased from 47 000 in 2008 to 70 000 in 2013 — while the oil price was record high, the Nordics paid more taxes and there was growth in the Norwegian economy. In 2013, the Norwegian economy went from full gas to half speed and the availability increased. There were the results of a policy the red-green still promoting today. Four years later, with a significant fall in the oil price behind us, we see that growth is back, unemployment goes down and more people come to work. This is good news for those who come to work and for companies who experience better times, but for the political will to change, it can be bad news. Despite the fact that the pPerspective Communication of 2013 and 2017 shows that Norway needs to make changes that ensure a sustainable welfare country for the generations that come after us. Changes need to be made to make sure that everyone can be lifted and that everyone gets involved. A society in which old structures are maintained has an exclusive effect on new groups and new needs. This also applies to the welfare system and to social benefits. There is no lack of willingness to increase their performance or their width, but all benefits cannot be all and apply to all. These also need to be changed, so that they work according to purpose when society changes. It is not just to ensure the sustainable welfare state that the Right is talking about the line of work and the right to work on benefits. This is important for the individual. Work is more than just work. There is also increased economic freedom, inclusion and a community beyond home and family. Therefore, the Right believes that it is important to maintain a link with the labour market in the event of a disease of your own or others. Porting outside shall not be a choice but may often be the result of full or partial compensation of the loss of labour income for longer periods. Schemes to compensate for temporary loss of labour income in the interests of well-being may not be available to become permanent arrangements for being at home. Over the last four years, the government has provided budgets that have promoted work, activity and change. This policy works and we see the results. But this work has to continue, it has to pay off more to be in work. We need to reduce barriers to going from public to private sector; we need a new, responsible pension reform. Included growth also means a tax system that promotes work and activity, ensuring the income of the welfare state, on the one hand, and a social security network that provides security to those who need it, on the other. A state should not be all-for-all, but much for those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3341	I record that representatives from the Right and the Advance Party spend a lot of time rubbing across polls, over the Workers' Party's election results, and are ahead with many advice on how to develop further as a party. But I have to remind you that we have a weakened government after this election, a government that has already been used to defeat after defeat in this room, which started with an increase in father's allowances. The Right Party and the Advance Party did not win the election because they made a very good choice themselves, but because the Labour Party made a poor choice. They also won the election due to tactical voting that ensured that the Left crossed the barrier. There is no call in Norwegian society for increased differences, higher nursery prices and cut welfare, which is the Right and the Advance Party's policy. What we need are more jobs. We have the lowest employment in 20 years. The dropout in high school is still a major problem, and we do not have a government as the ability to think ‘city and country, hand in hand’. Norway needs an active industrial policy that helps create more jobs across the country. That's why we say no to the cut of what works. Developmental instruments, it works. Regional development funds — funds that contribute to local food resources for municipalities, funds that contribute to business growth opportunities, such as: to help Norway now broadcast the most spectacular images to the world through the Artic Race of Norway. Travel life is an important industry for the future. In my home municipality, Tromsø, we have had a growth of 704 pst. in 10 years. It is noted, but the challenge to industry is the lack of national strategies and measures that contribute to sustainable growth. There is a need to facilitate the use of nature, to respond to security needs and, for example, to: certification of guides - yes, it is needed when moving in e.g. Lyng salps. A fast-growing industry also needs forward-looking and active policies and measures, rather than government inaction and cutbacks. The working party will consume 20 million. kr more on travel life. So we have a government that thinks that the answer to all the challenges is tax cut to the richest, a policy that doesn't help to solve any of the challenges we have as a society, but it's obviously a nice gesture from the Right and the Advance Party to its financial supporters. So we need a policy that contributes to less differences between people, we need an active industrial policy that helps create more jobs, and that takes the whole country into action.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3356	I can assure the House that when reduced taxes on working capital are mentioned, there are not many business owners who link it with tax relief to the rich. On the contrary, it is seen as an opportunity to invest more in the company and in the workplace, rather than watering down the company’s liquidity with this strange tax. Eight out of ten Norwegian companies said in a survey conducted by the NHO that the tax on Norwegian ownership prevents the creation of more jobs. The right has escalated taxes on working capital because we want more jobs in Norway to be Norwegian. Tax deductions on investment in start-up enterprises were introduced in the summer, while the removal of machine taxes, the further reduction of corporation tax and the amendment of the option taxation rules are in the next year’s budget. Founders take a risk of creating new jobs, but only one in ten companies have succeeded ten years after starting up. Start-up businesses must be given conditions to facilitate ownership and control in a start-up phase and to attract the right staff from the start-up stage. Start-up enterprises can rarely compete on pay for the wise heads, so the option scheme can be an important instrument for attracting the right people, who are willing to take risks and work for a possible future gain. Right wants to facilitate more localised Norwegian enterprises. Therefore, an important point in the 2018 budget is the amendment of the rules on option taxation. Under the new plan, the benefits of options to employees of small start-up companies are taxed only when the shares are realised. This is becoming important for Norwegian start-ups and not least for the young but rapidly growing health industry. I want to pay tribute to those cooperation parties that share our view of strengthening Norwegian business, and especially to the Left, who wanted to increase the ceiling on option taxation beyond what was proposed by the government – an important measure to strengthen Norwegian ownership. I believe that the option tax proposal has now been improved by increasing the maximum option advantage from NOK 30 000 to NOK 500000. This can help us get a system that becomes practical. Many have talked about facilitating more entrepreneurship. Let's do something about that. Norway is in transition, and we need to use the tools we have to facilitate entrepreneurship and Norwegian value creation. We must not be so afraid to let people use their skills to create something in this country. Whether you like it or not, the reality is that we need a viable business life to maintain a sustainable welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3373	The current government often appears to be an administrative unit in the management of AS Norway. In the previous four years, no major reforms have been carried out, except that the rich have become richer and those with the least and the worst economy have been made worse. It may well also be described as a reform, but it is not a reform that the Labour Party supports. We believe that the big money should go to the big things and not to the people who have the most from before. Last week, Stortinget passed a law on testing self-driving vehicles — an important decision that can both bring down the number of cars on the roads and bring down the number of accidents. Such a commitment requires the expansion of broadband, yes, in fact a strong commitment to expansion. We also know that the welfare society of the future will be digitally much more than today, for example. through the need to connect both healthcare, the Internet of Things and much more via the Internet. Yes, things we do not yet have an overview of will be done via the Internet in ways we do not know about today. Lack of investment will lead to a distinction between city and country if we are not aware of this and then rate. The left presents broadband bets as budget wins. Well, it says a lot about the rest of the budget, because it was no more than a dirty status quo. Industry development in rural areas and skills development in the population will be among the losers. If commercial forces are to lead this development, there are large areas in the country that will never receive broadband coverage. The working party does not want an A-layer and a B-layer to form in this area – yes, not here either. The government halves its bet on broadband, while the Workers' Party will have a large-scale stake in broadband expansion and has invested 430 million. D more than the government's draft budget and 350 million. kr more than the budgetary agreement. It's actually a six-fold of the government's proposal and a triple of the deal. This shows that the Workers' Party, unlike the government, has understood the importance of broadband in the welfare society of the future. This would be an investment in future value creation and well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3382	Norway has a major natural advantage in terms of economic development. Our natural resources, from which we are to live, are found in the districts – agriculture, aquaculture, forestry and minerals. With a high level of research and technological development, these are industries that still have a high potential. Then we have to create equivalent competitive conditions. We need to create to share, and we need to create new ones to replace oil-related activities. The vast majority of farms are located along a country road. The maturity of the county roads is estimated to be between 70 billion. DKK and 90 billion kr in the basic document of NTP. This is serious. In the county I'm from, it's ten times as much highway as highway. Climate change, with more floods and breeds, gives county municipalities large, unforeseen expenditure. When roads and bridges are gone, this has to be fixed. The tunnel safety regulation was to compensate the counties, but at the speed set by the government, the minimum measures were financed in 2037, while the deadline was 2019. The irony is that the challenges faced by county municipalities mean that the Minister of Transport is constantly putting new toll projects on county roads ahead of the Stortinget. They have local approval because the county councils take responsibility. They see trailers and traffic-hazardous, molten roads. Norway needs to be made more competitive. We can do that by increasing the county council's role as a regional engine with regional development funds, where until now the government has cut 1.3 billion. kr. We can do that in broadband, where the government suggested halving the grant where it's not commercially profitable. We can increase the framework transfers to county municipalities. A number of schemes are not fully financed by them, for example: VAT on bus tickets, apprentice grants and ferry services. Without better and more targeted efforts, districts will not be able to compete for the skills they so badly need. Technology and the research environment in cities and natural resources in the districts must play together. The Labour Party sees this, and our alternative budget will strengthen and build the country, even where the natural resources are. That's what we're going to live on in the future. The government seems to have forgotten.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3393	Norway is in transition. Norway has signed the Paris Agreement as one of 175 countries. It commits, and it challenges. It is therefore disappointing to see that the government and the cooperation parties do not spend the necessary resources on carbon capture and storage. Verbal proposals and good intentions without accompanying economic instruments, do little to help. If Norway is to help us achieve the 2-degree objective of the Paris Agreement, all good measures must be taken on the table and they must be financed. Therefore, the Workers' Party wants to set of 340 million. kr in its alternative state budget for carbon capture and storage. The Working Party also believes that the energy system plays a crucial role in the transition to the low-carbon society. Nearly all power generation in Norway today is renewable and emission-free. 20 000 annual works in 1500 hydropower plants deliver 96 pst. by our current. In Norway, therefore, the main task is to make better use of our renewable energy sources for increased value creation and reduced emissions. From the nature point of view, Norway has an enormous potential for new renewable energy sources, both at sea and on land. Security of supply, stability and products to the final customer must be given greater emphasis. Road traffic and other transport account for a large proportion of Norway’s emissions, and therefore renewable energy needs to replace fossil energy far on the road. It requires strong public involvement in power generation. It requires close interaction between the renewable industries and the petroleum sector and requires not least the establishment of the necessary infrastructure. Norway's northernmost country, Finnmark, lacks the necessary infrastructure, as power lines with sufficient capacity. As a consequence, Hammerfest and Alta are unplugged in extreme weather situations that occur every winter. It's more than 30,000 people. East Finland imports power from Russia and Finland to meet its needs. Parts of that power are produced by the nuclear power stations in Russia and Finland. Finnmark has approx. 80 pst. of the unexploited wind power potential on land. At the same time, good wind power projects are rejected due to lack of capacity in the transmission system. Through Statnett, the state must facilitate an active policy that ensures that we continue the 420 kV line from Balsfjord in Troms to Skaidi-Hammerfest in West Finland and beyond to East Finland.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3404	Equal rights to education and equal opportunities for education are a pillar of the Norwegian community, for education is our main tool for equalisation, inclusion and value creation. It's about what opportunities people in this country should have – and yes, it's about a society for the many and not for the few. SV believes that we need a government budget where the broad education cycle is strengthened. The key to good quality children's gardens is enough adults with good child-care skills to help young people become safe and to facilitate play and learning. In school, we need to base our broad knowledge and contribute to the learning, success and well-being of all students, and to increase their learning outcomes through more practical and varied teaching. Several teachers with increased competence and time for early action are the main means of giving students greater opportunities to exploit their potential and to live up to their dreams. In the SV School, the teacher has time to follow up each student and adapt the training to the resources and needs of the students. Therefore, the introduction of a national resource standard for increased staffing in kindergartens and increasing teacher density is a major priority in the SV alternative state budget. But we're not just concerned with today's school. We also need to facilitate tomorrow's school, a school where we can meet the future's skills needs. In the future school, we have to build a broader knowledge view than today, and we have to give room for what is missing today, with greater emphasis on creativity, knowledge and depth learning, more time for practical-esthetic subjects, more physical activity and healthy and free school food. Lessons must be given in school everyday life, so that children can get help from teachers and have free lessons when they come home. SV's future school is a necessary modernisation, a modernisation that requires investment. Investing in our kids costs, but what we can't afford is not to worry about it. We create the most in a society that balances differences, that includes everyone, and that gives equal opportunities, where everyone gets to take advantage of their potential.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3419	An accessible and stable police force, where people are present and which contributes to safe communities, is – together with the judiciary and courts that handle matters effectively and reliably, and which at the same time helps people to move on in their lives – one of our main rule of law principles. The Labour Party will prevent and combat crime. Crimes are to be solved quickly and offenders are to be punished and rehabilitated. Victims of serious crime and their relatives shall be taken care of. Criminal policy needs to prevent better, clarify more, respond more quickly and rehabilitate more effectively. The Labour Party will conduct a criminal policy that is tough on repeaters and organised criminals. We want good, effective rehabilitation services. The working party has high ambitions for the justice sector, for increased preparedness and for safer Norway. When KDI today calls for caution about the budgetary situation in prison and expresses that the situation is almost unmanageable, and when policemen warn that if they don't get officers out in the streets, security will be released, the government has not done the job well enough, with the supporting parties. The Labour Party believes that we need to ensure that we achieve the goal of two policemen per thousand inhabitants, and we want to make sure that the criminal services have the capacity to do the important rehabilitation work they are assigned to do, and that no one is at risk of getting a blue eye at work. We cannot accept this situation in which the government has put us in. The Labour Party is committed to police and civil protection, lifting criminal custody and strengthening legal security for most people. We facilitate good and safe communities and strengthen volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3430	A financial debate often bears the mark of big words about large numbers. I'd rather talk a little bit about the little ones. Because that is what small policies should be about. It's the little ones who should get the big sums. Norway has never been more prosperous as a society than today, but at the same time almost a hundred thousand young people grow up in poor families. There are almost a hundred thousand kids who are afraid of Christmas because there will be no good Christmas dinner and there will be no packages under the Christmas tree. Only in my own home town of Sarpsborg is there nearly 1,600 kids walking around with that lump in their stomachs. The government has many big words for these children, but where has it become of the big sums? Since 1996, child welfare has remained still. It has stood still most of my life. There has been quite a lot during my almost 23 years of life, including. that child welfare has now become one-third less valuable. SV doesn't just have big words for these kids. We're also giving priority to spending the big money. We proposed to spend 1.8 billion. kr only in the State budget of the year to escalate the amount of child benefit as the first paragraph of getting it back to 1996 level. The distribution committee concluded that increasing child welfare will be the most effective short-term response to help children out of poverty. Nearly 20,000 young people are not allowed to grow up in poverty with our proposal. It's about distributing the large sums fairly – for the many, not just for the few. Some of the smallest are also some of the most vulnerable in our society. We'll find them, for example. in the field of child protection — children who need predictability, professionalism and sufficient adults with care. But too many of these kids don't get that security and care. On the contrary, child protection is today characterised by commercial actors who make money on these vulnerable kids. 60 pst. of private child protection is commercial. Four of the five major commercial child protection actors are owned by international purchasing funds that send profits to tax havens. We in SV believe that every crown that has been granted to child protection should go to more care for the children, not to tropical islands with very many mailboxes. That requirement is neither radical nor controversial. It's just reasonable and reasonable. But the government obviously disagrees, because in the state budget you can read that there must be cut 640 million. DKK in the national child protection system and purchased private child protection services for 500 million. kr. We propose to reverse the cut and instead want to build up the public offer with the addition of non-profit actors. We prioritise the large sums to the smallest of us because that is what should be the main policy task – not to fill already well-filled pockets.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3450	For the first time, I have been followed by the financial debate from the storeroom. I have realized that this is not the big day of roughness, but I will try to say something nice. Because if I'm going to be completely honest, that's not all that's wrong with government policy. But it might be that some of the recordings that come from the opposition can also have something to do with it. Having heard the political speeches from the Right and the Advancement Party here, I should have really begun to doubt my own faith, my political affiliation, but on the contrary, because it is about the direction in which we want to change the country step by step. TV 2 today has a notice of 150 000 Norwegians who say they have not been able to afford food during the last year. This is about politics for me – that we should stand up for those who need it the most, not for those who have the most. Then we need a strong community, a community that benefits – not for us to determine each other, but for us to give everyone the opportunity to live as well as possible. Maybe it doesn't sound so tense with 3 billion. more to the municipalities and county councils, but it is really a question of investing in kindergartens, more teachers, vocational training and more places of learning, so that more young people can get a good follow-up in the education process, can take the training they want, and not least succeed in getting into the labour market. It's about when the Workers' Party next year will give 16 million. kr more to the municipality I live in, Arendal, it becomes a little easier for the city council there to build and operate the nursing home that all local politicians, from the Workers' Party to the Right and the Advance Party, seem to want. And when the Workers' Party adds over 1 billion. kr more on the table of hospitals, because we want more people to get faster and better health care, completely independent of their own economy and without the need for health insurance other than the community. And it's about that instead of cutting 228 years' worth of work at the South Hospital because of the need for economics, more doctors and nurses can contribute to my and others' safety in Agder when we need it. I have great respect for the job done by the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, and I am happy to live in a country where the upheavals are not huge even if power changes hands. But also here in Norway, it plays a role who controls, and over time, changes become big. Therefore, our job in this room should be to make sure that in the next few years we get fewer and no more than 150 000 Norwegians who say they have not been able to afford food. Norway will become a poor country if we cannot afford to do more for those who have the least and need us the most. That's why I'm proud to support the Workers' Party's alternative budget, because it would give us the opportunity to get a little richer by investing in the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3467	We have areas with living conditions challenges in our cities. Many of the children who grow up in these areas have parents who don't work. They grow up in poor families. These are families who cannot always afford to send their children to football training, cinema or vacations. These are activities many of us others take for granted. It is serious that many children grow up in poverty and that the prevention of juvenile delinquency in parts of our cities is not good enough. By participating in the labour market, most people will be able to support themselves and their families and thus avoid poverty. That's why getting more people to work is so important to the Workers' Party. We want to make sure that more people qualify for work. The working party prioritises this in its alternative budget, including: by strengthening Job shine. Many children and young people do things they regret later in life. For some of these young people, this results in marginalisation, exclusion and large social differences. School is the key for young people who fall outside. We as politicians can help these children get the opportunity to live better lives. It's about prioritizing. It is about government not giving priority to measures that make life for these young people better. The bourgeois government does not give enough priority to the police in the streets, who could work preventively, or to measures that could get parents to the children who are growing up in child poverty in work. The government also lacks ambitions to prevent school dropouts and efforts at qualification measures. These are political initiatives that could mean a difference for these young people. The government is also on the defensive in the field initiatives. In the election campaign, Jan Tore Sanner promised gold and green forests. But when the budgets came, the government was not close to meeting the City Council in Oslo. The budget agreement came a little further on with money for area bets, but still it is far away from what is needed. The Workers' Party has for a long time been a driving force for regional initiatives in vulnerable areas facing living conditions challenges. Extra efforts by countries and municipalities in selected neighbourhoods have been aimed at contributing to neighbourhoods where people are to thrive better. Local meeting places contribute to creating well-being and cohesion in a neighborhood. Here are small funds, which could make an afternoon a little easier for those children who don't have so many opportunities – whether they're on homework, on football training or in an evening open library. But the government has said no to both the small and the large sums for these children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3480	The government will ‘contribute to a living local democracy and strengthen the provision of municipal welfare’, says it so nicely in the beginning of the draft budget presented by the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation. Yes, it is possible that the government will, but unfortunately it does not – neither in terms of financial framework, nor in terms of respect for the local government. The central party is promoting a budget that together strengthens the municipal sector by 3.9 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. The Budget Agreement with the Left and the Christian People's Party gave some more money to the municipalities and the counties, but everything is tied up in action and does not provide any room for local assessments of how the money can best be spent. In this budgetary procedure, too, we have to note that increased transfers to the municipalities barely cover the expenditure increases resulting from several inhabitants and changed age groups. In addition, once again, we feel that the tasks are not fully financed. This is thoroughly documented by the KS and applies, among other things. the pedagogical code introduced for kindergartens. The budgetary agreement with the Left and the Christian People's Party also introduces a teaching standard for which there is considerable uncertainty about the full funding of. When the municipalities get an extra charge of 345 million. I understand that most local politicians experience this year's government budget as a downturn because the state raises the ceiling for co-financing resource-intensive services. From 2019, local authorities will be removed from the right to levy property taxes on production equipment and installations. Firstly, the government removes the last possibility that municipalities have to influence their own income. Secondly, an estimated 1 billion is removed. SEK of the income of municipalities. That's the consequence after the seven years of stepping down are over. The budgetary agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party on a compensation arrangement slightly alleviates, but in no way removes the basis for reactions. Full compensation for the loss of property tax is boasted, but the agreement does not apply to what is established after 1 January 2017. In the case of the Centre Party, it is essential that transfers be made to the municipalities and counties in a manner that allows for the provision of equivalent services and opportunities for development. The conversion of the income system for the provinces in 2015 and for the municipalities in 2017 left the principle. The County and Municipal Reform has become a premise for the design of the income system. This has led to major redistributions particularly affecting districts and small and medium-sized municipalities. Calculations from KS show that the smallest municipalities have a growth of only 1.7 pst. from 2017 to 2018, while municipalities over 20 000 have a growth of 2.8 pst. In its alternative budget, the Centre promotes proposals that the framework appropriations for municipalities should continue to take account of inter-municipal reconciliation by compensating small-scale operating disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3497	This autumn many Nordics, especially in the South, have experienced climate change on their bodies. The flood did a lot of damage to people's homes. Both the Minister for Oil and Energy and the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation went to visit the flood victims. The Minister of State said to the NRK: we see how vulnerable we are, so it is important to prepare for more storm and stronger forces. The oil and energy minister's message was that the flood was a strong reminder that there must be even harder work on preventive work related to floods and anti-slip protection. The visit and the promises of stronger efforts to avoid such damage as a result of climate change came on 4 October. A little over a week later, the government budget came with the answer. There it was cut in the appropriations that are just going to give us this protection, a protection that is becoming increasingly necessary, the more time we waste on not cutting greenhouse gas emissions. Earlier today, the parliamentary leader stood in the right here and said that the emissions went down with the current government. That's right in and of itself. After an increase at the beginning of the period of the Right Party and the Advance Party, emissions declined marginally. The reason was that the government and the supporting batches made sure to pump rainforest-causing biofuels into the Norwegian fuel market. Globally, this increased emissions. In any case, we have no time for marginal emission cuts. It's time for the big emitters – cut that can save us from the worst climate change. But what is the government's answer? Yes, among others. a massive effort on motorways, resulting in more driving and more pollution. Throughout the day, Oslo air has been harmful to health. The answer then is not to pump more cars into the city by expanding the E18. We need collective solutions that provide emission cut as monks. We need solutions for the many, not for the few. SV therefore presents a budget that takes the environmental challenges seriously, which shows the way, which cuts emissions and takes care of Norwegian nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3510	We still have very many unemployed people in Norway and too many long-term unemployed. This isn't about numbers, it's about individuals. I understand when these people are frustrated and feel translated by the government, because the government has chosen to refresh the labour market in the light of some slightly more positive feedback from some companies. There are still many companies that are struggling, and I can't see how the government wants to improve the situation for the unemployed. The government is happy to sit quietly in the boat and wait for the market to fix itself, when one knows that a more active business policy works much better than tax cuts. The unemployed would like to have a much more user-friendly hub. They want to be able to build their skills when they leave the job, and they want to be seen as individuals. Nothing of this does anything to the government. Instead, they introduce general cheese relations, give the big money in gifts to the economic elite, and they have to pay for it at least. The government even tried to introduce a heavy day money cut that would have a frame that would be absolutely hard on those who have the least. This was an ice-cold signal to people who have part-time jobs, or people who are currently added without pay between assignments. The signal was that if you're unlucky and lose your job now, you get a go for lye and cold water or go to the social part of your municipality's budget, which is already too tight. We in SV want a warmer society and show it clearly in our alternative budget. We have, among other things: increase the level of action for people to work. We want a society with smaller differences, and therefore we are strong opponents of all the unsocial cuts that the government stands for year after year with its state budget. A society is not the most successful if only economic growth is high. We're not opponents of economic growth, as someone thinks, but SV is the party that holds the dignity high – and the dignity is definitely not in place if we don't take care of those who live here. I'm sorry that the government doesn't have a policy for the many, but only for the few, the most, the richest.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3521	Technological developments and what all talk about as digitisation require conversion. Heavy duty editing processes are required to combine with fast conversion. Resilient well-being requires understanding, commitment, participation and trust, both in public and in business. This may be the biggest challenge we face when we're about to extract the potential of technology and digitisation. New jobs are now being created, and people need to be able to handle these changes. Necessary conversion costs, and good intentions must be funded. When the red-green side talks about an active business policy, what do they really mean? What industries and enterprises are to be foreshadowed? The target position is unclear. We live in a world of globalisation and international competition. Technological breakthroughs give us hope of increasing productivity and new jobs that can reduce economic differences and give people a better life. We see growth in economic activity, profitability and employment. The State has a certain role to play in industrial policy, but the most important thing to ensure our work is general policy, taxation, taxation, competition policy and effective bureaucracy, so that companies are set up in such a way that they are competitive internationally. Norway can hijack a whole new industry if we think smart. I cannot help but wonder how it seems to the Labour Party that large parts of the health and care sector are labeled – on a general basis – as welfare professionals, while other sectors can be hailed as entrepreneurs. The challenges facing a high-cost country such as Norway are pursuing a policy that promotes and supports innovation, conversion and investment in R & D. This is a contribution to the development of a more robust, internationally competitive and knowledge-based business. Resilient welfare requires more people to take the risk of investing their money in a Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3542	Although initially in this article it might seem like Haltbrecken and I share the copy machine, we don't do that, but the theme will be the same. In the debate on the throne, I challenged the oil and energy minister Søviknes to the need for more flood and escape protection, as we had just experienced extreme weather in the South. We know that this has major consequences for both individuals and – not least – business and the public. There are large costs associated with such events. 250 million. kr is the estimate for the extreme precipitation that hit the South in the autumn, and 120 million. NOK only in Development earlier this summer. The council replied that this was something you took the most seriously, and that it was never bet any more. It was therefore a big surprise when we literally got to know the contents of the government's proposal for a government budget a few hours later. There the government cut hard: almost half of the funding for NVE's work on flood and scaffolding – despite the fact that the council's own profession, NVE, even says that they have enough of the projects ready for start-up and that they have notified that the need is great. Why, probably against a better knowledge, the Council of State chose to present it as if this were an area where the government was going to invest on, can only wonder when we now know the fasit. The centre party addresses climate change and prioritises this important measure with flood protection. Therefore, in line with the NVE's reported needs, we are adding 200 million. kr in our alternative budget, because it's better to be led was than soon, and in length it pays off. I am also surprised that the cooperation parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party, are not correcting any more of the cuts in the budget. In the view of the Centre Party, this is poor governance policy, because we actually have to equip ourselves practically for the future that we see coming, with more and more warnings of extreme weather. In line with the fact that the Centre Party also recognises climate change and its consequences, the Centre Party will continue to invest in technology development for CO 2 capture and storage. And once again, it's strange that the cooperation parties find themselves with a verbal note in that field. Both parties recognise climate change and know that technology is crucial to meeting climate objectives and addressing climate challenges. I hope, therefore, that the Left and Christian People's Party know the risk of giving these projects a so-called severance cutting, as the government puts it. Worst of all, this won't just be a break, but there'll be a full stop in an important project, where we'll lose both time and competence. The center party is going to follow this with the argus eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3560	Creating a sustainable welfare society is not just a political priority of this government; it is a moral commitment. At a time of major demographic and technological changes, the word ‘competence’ is the key to success. Competence is not only important for the economic sustainability of Norway, it is also important to create independence, social mobility and participation for individuals. Competence makes it possible to keep your balance even if the line is distracting, it gives security and ability to change. There are some disturbing trends that we are taking seriously. Digitalisation means that the need for labour skills changes faster than before, and it is not necessarily the jobs that disappear, but it is the tasks that disappear. People suddenly experience that the letter they hold in their hands is out of date, and that their real competence is undocumented. At the same time, we see the need for unskilled people to sink. Dropping from high school and sitting at the back of the classroom and not hanging out has more costs than before. Unskilled people are vulnerable in the workplace and often do not have the opportunity to return full time to school. In 2013, the right in government had to blow dust from competence policy. Today, it's one of our most important bets. We're going to create a education system and a working life that embraces lifelong learning. It is no longer the case that you are fully trained as a 25-year-old. Today we have to learn a lot more times in life. We need to have a streamlined view of education. Norway is well equipped to meet this more knowledge-intensive working life. The Norwegian model has provided a high level of education, small pay differentials and a good incentive to invest in the skills of employees. However, there is a real risk of an enhanced two-way division of the labour market and more falls out. Public authorities must take greater responsibility, and we must rethink the policy of competence. The government is in the process of experimenting with adult training in shorter modules. We make it easier for adults who lack formal competence, to receive on-the-job training. We need to set up a digital career guidance service to ensure that more people are provided with the necessary guidance. And we continue to prioritise a high level of competence for teachers and employees in the health and care sector. We focus our efforts on those groups that experience the greatest change in the world of work. The vision of Norway as a knowledge society is civil common good that we manage. This is precisely why our government budget is about creating more jobs and – perhaps most importantly – ensuring that people are qualified to work, because there is one thing that is certain, is that in Norwegian society no people should go out on date.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3577	Perhaps this budget should be called ‘Carpe future’ because it is about securing Norway for the future. We do that with a budget for economic growth, more in jobs and a sustainable welfare society. Adults in the labour market have a high level of skills. Nevertheless, 400,000 in level 1 or below are in reading. It corresponds to the level of a fourth grade. 500,000 cuts are just as bad in terms of bills. Of these, four out of ten are immigrants and six out of ten are Norwegians. We have a challenge to avoid hundreds of thousands of people being unable to participate in future working lives. Each year, competence Norway provides funds to enterprises providing basic literacy, writing, billing and ICT training through the Competence plus scheme. The aim is to stimulate increased participation and prevent alienation. Good lifelong learning arrangements are a prerequisite for an inclusive working and social life. It provides the basis for a productive working life and for the welfare state. Companies that have participated report back on improved communication and cooperation, increased focus on HMS, lower sick leave, minor disappearances and a better understanding of staff instructions and procedures. It even turns out that participants are getting a sense of self-confidence and mastery, changeability is getting bigger, and motivation for taking the letter is increasing. On the way, many find a rehearsed joy by learning and being at school. Many have never before known about this. The company regains motivated employees with important basic knowledge. Together, they are strengthened in the face of the future. Several shopping centres, together with the National University, have been committed to providing basic skills enhancement to employees and managers in their shops. One participant says that Competence plus has helped adults to keep up with the time and feel safer. She's been a store manager for 17 years. She also sees the value of sending her employees on course, even if it means that you have to deal with fewer employees during periods. Investing in employees is investing in the future, and enthusiasm and learning infect the others. Everybody's working on it. Right will work for a sustainable welfare society, where those who want to and can work will get jobs. We then need to facilitate skills enhancement throughout our working life, because no one is going to go out to date. The working life of today and the future needs us to build skills; the employees will benefit from this. There are a number of learning institutions with fingertip skills in this area, and Competence plus can provide valuable travel for many in the workplace. To deal with the transitions, we're totally dependent on people developing while they're at work. Competence plus is an aid scheme that works. We have submitted a budget for work, activity and conversion. The government is strengthening well-being today and securing Norway for the future. Carpe futurum!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3594	I thought we'd talk about something a little more festive here at the end of the evening. Culture is not something we can put a price tag on. The culture is what makes us a us. Culture is the backbone of a society. Winston Churchill said it so well when the Secretary of Defense asked him during World War II, "Can't we just lay down the Ministry of Culture and spend all our money on weapons?" Churchill then looked concerned at the Minister of Defense and said, 'But what are we going to fight for?' It sums up well the self-esteem of art and cultural life. But even if we can't set a price tag on culture, we have to appreciate culture. It requires a cultural policy with good and strong public funding for cultural life, because without strong public funding, we are left with what only makes sense in a diet-benefit analysis, what fits market forces. We are left with only the commercial successes. We are left poorer, with less diversity. And we're left with greater inequality in access to a good cultural offer. One of the main objectives of our cultural policy is that everyone should have access to a good cultural offer, regardless of our wallet. The fact that the kids I grew up with in Eastern Sarpsborg could go to concerts depends entirely on good public funding. Another example is that young people at Glemmen secondary school in Fredrikstad saw a play by Studium Actoris on torture. It was so strong that one of the teachers fainted during the performance. Those kids would never have seen the important play if we hadn't had strong public funding for cultural life. But this is now threatened. Studied Actoris has been taken by the state budget. That means the hook on the door for a group of theatres of international quality. It's a tragedy in itself, but it's also a symbol of today's cultural policy with hunger feeding and cutting cultural life year after year. Indeed, the government's proposals for the cultural budget this year are a real decline in total. There will be less money for concert experiences for all young people, less money for important plays in school. SV will go the other way. We will strengthen the breadth and diversity of cultural life by strengthening public funding for art and culture. Our goal is for one percent of the state budget to go for cultural purposes, and with this year's alternative state budget, we deliver one billion more to culture in addition to what the government proposes. Then we're halfway to the goal of just one budget. It's a cultural vow as monks. It will smooth out social differences in access to culture, it will provide more diversity, more breadth. Because it's ultimately about creating a cultural life for the many and not just for the few.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3616	The Centre Party has submitted a very offensive alternative budget with a clear commitment to Norwegian food and food production. Why is this important for the Center Party and should it be for the Storting? Yes, because Norwegian agriculture ensures value creation throughout the country. It ensures the basis of a food industry. When there are turbulent times in the economy, it is very important to have this industry at the bottom. Secondly, an active agricultural policy ensures that we have a settlement in the whole country, that there is activity in the countryside around Norway. Many places are agriculture and agricultural production that are the mainstay of the community. Norwegian food production is also a central part of national preparedness, food preparedness. I feel that the government party and their support party are not taking this seriously enough. We treat as part of the budget an agricultural policy that is not in line with the income target. It is an agricultural policy that increases the income gap between agriculture and farmers and other groups year by year. We've seen a number of large numbers that have weighed down the import protection system. We are eagerly awaiting compensatory measures. There was a small amount of fuss, and it was clearly underlined that this was a one-time exercise. I would like to congratulate the Minister of Finance on a 1-0 voice in this matter. We also see a government and a multiple that threatens market balance. A requirement for farmers to get good prices on their goods is that there is a balance in the market. Step by step, the government weakens this, and step by step, they get to join in on it. It's got to turn around. What we see now is not about taking care of the smallest farmers in Norway. The ones that depend most on import protection, which depend most on stable prices and market balance, are the biggest farmers in Norway, the ones that produce quite a lot of our food. That's the policy that the plural challenge is now. I see it has been joyful that the organization support is afraid, and it has been almost a ritual. The government is cutting. The Left Party and the Christian People's Party get the money back in, and a cheer in the organizations. But the consequence is that next year these organizations, like the Building Youth Act and 4H, get the worse than they had in 2013. There is a policy on which the Centre Party cannot participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3631	The Christian People's Party is pleased that we have obtained a budgetary union on the non-socialist side that raises the school, the vulnerable children, volunteering and districts. For the Christian People's Party, the teaching norm represents a bet in a school that gives all students a fairer access to the school's most important resource, which is the teacher. It's the students, our children, who are going to be the focus of school policy. They must acquire knowledge, become professionally strong, but they must also be formed as human beings, experience mastery and be seen. If we're going to do this, the teachers have to have enough time for each student, to see, be present, and give help and encouragement to the individual. This is important both for highly professional students and those who need extra help. Those who know the challenges in Norwegian school the best are the teachers, the parents and the students, and all these groups ask for more teachers to see each student and provide more adapted education. The Christian People's Party has listened to these and has therefore fought in place a teaching norm, which will mean a great difference for many children throughout the country. In particular, the very least will benefit from the fact that more teachers can spend more time on each individual student, early capture the challenges and provide adapted training. In the future, there will have to be a strategic effort to recruit enough teachers to fill the schools with qualified staff. In the agreement, there is agreement to correct proposals for cutbacks in the work of study associations, with 22.5 million. kr. These are organisations that do a very important job in many areas. Public schools provide an important opportunity for many young people. In the budget agreement, these schools are guaranteed a predictable economy even in the coming year. The extended TT system gives blind and wheelchair users the opportunity to participate in the most normal life possible, to follow up their own children and to participate in social activities that most of us others see as a matter of course. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that the arrangement through the budgetary agreement will be extended to new counties in 2018. The transport plan of children was given a separate chapter in the NTP. A $70 million increase. to several routes through the budgetary agreement, more children will be given the opportunity to safely go to school. The development of broadband is an important measure that increases the possibility of living and working across the country. When we know how much involvement in dollars and dollars the public broadband funds create in terms of new investments for broadband companies, the increase is 80 million. kr – an increase of 100 pst. in relation to the government’s proposal – very well spent money to ensure more people better communication opportunities, no matter where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3642	In today's NRK notice on Ecocrim, it says: ‘We fear that the police’s ability to investigate serious environmental crime is being so reduced that it goes beyond legal certainty, says Bjørn Bjørnstad, Department Director of the Environment Directorate.’ It is now proposed to close the central trade union community in Oslo instead of strengthening it and to build up more trade unions elsewhere in the country. With this year's government budget, this is going in the wrong direction, not only with regard to serious environmental crime, but also serious economic crime in Norway and in countries with which we are dealing. That is why the Greens want a major effort to combat economic crime. Recent revelations, including: through Panama Papers and the last Paradise Papers, we have shown that both globally and nationally, we have major problems related to aggressive tax planning and illegal avoidance of funds for taxation. In Norway, the black economy is estimated to be 14 pst. of GDP, and that we lose as much as 150 billion. kr every year on black work, tax fraud and other financial crimes. This is a huge problem for all countries. This is the basis for providing welfare services to the population, not just in Norway. The Greens are committed to ensuring that we have strengthened global cooperation on transparency and tax havens. The aim is to reduce the scope for tax evasion and doubts about tax planning. Therefore, we need to provide our national supervisory and supervisory bodies and prosecution authorities with the adequate resources they need to deal with this type of crime. Ecocrim has long worn too little resources. Two thirds of the cases referred by the tax administration to Ecokrim are rejected, many of them due to lack of resources. We have been told that if an additional interview has to be made, which involves an air trip, the matter may have to be settled because there are no resources. We can't have it that way. Financial supervision has also complained about the lack of investigation into matters in their area. At the same time, we know that Ecokrim is working against the world's most well-placed criminals. They therefore need more resources if they are to have the opportunity to pursue these matters. The Greens therefore propose a sharp increase in the ecocrim allocation of 100 million. kr. The Greens will also propose to allocate 500 million. to strengthen this work in the tax administration, the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Customs Office, the Brønnøsund Registers, Nav and the Public Prosecutors. We estimate that such a leverage helps to increase the tax intake, as the professional environment is really going to be effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3656	We have been through a rough time in Norway and through it in a good way, because of many good people and because economic policy has laid the foundation for it. However, we have a major challenge in Norway: we need to create more jobs. If our children and grandchildren are to expect the same good, free public services, free schooling, free health services and equal opportunities for a good life as we have, we have to make sure that more people get a job. That's what will create the values we're going to distribute. Without it there are no values to distribute. The big difference in Norway is not between those who earn the least in their job and those who earn the most in their job. It's between those who have jobs and those who don't. Recently, differences in Norway have increased somewhat because many refugees have arrived, and many have not yet taken up the job. Government policies and the efforts of many enterprises, ideas and creativity have reversed the trend. Now come slowly, but probably more at work. Since January, unemployment has fallen by more than 100 only where I come from. In Ashøy there are 100 more people who attend a safe Christmas, and that's important. This state budget facilitates this. It goes in the right direction, but I hear the opposition in this hall wants a new course. Freedom goes down, but you want a new course. The professional participation goes up, but you want a new course. Absence and absence in high school goes down, but you want a new course. Climate emissions are moving in the right direction, but you want a new course. Hospital cows go down, but you want a new course. Transport investment makes roads and lanes better and more, but you want a new price. As the representative Kaski said, the country is being affected by four-field roads – not that I want to protest. In addition, I would like to add that the railway lift of times also comes to the top. There is little use to bet a lot on the port when you do not have a way to the port. Let me also say hello to you by pointing out that we also co-locate public fishing competence, which is helping to create the basis for future marine value creation, in a new building in Bergen. The Workers' Party takes in its proposal, through taxes on wealth and tax increases, out of 5.2 billion. kr extra from the job-creating business. Looking at what one delivers back to bets that go directly back to business, it seems to me to be about 0.8 billion. kr. The remainder is sent to various – probably good – public measures. The 5.2 billion — or at least 3.3 of them, which is the property tax — goes straight off the bottom line of business. This means that business, with its usual return, must have generated sales of more than 60 billion. kr to finance this. Roosevelt spoke of a «New Deal». This is a bad deal or to rewrite Prix's expression: laugh, you made a bad deal. Road projects have been abandoned and it is significant that the effort to create more jobs, among other things. is a proposal for several action areas. Our ambition is that more people should get to work, and that there should be less, no greater need for employment measures. We must not take away what is so-called, that is, the wealth that creates jobs. Then we eat of the seed, and therefore we must continue on the course we have now set.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3675	I do not particularly agree with the previous speaker. What we want our country to look like is very much dependent on the transport challenges. It determines the pattern of residence, the development of industry, and not least our climate accounts. This government is happy in major roads and more air traffic, i.e. that it is on a passive line and is based only on the forecast of growth in traffic and growth in air traffic. It's sad to see. Norway – and the rest of the world – shouts for courageous politicians, who look and take hold, away from the tyranny of predictions. Here I want to point out two important fields that SV is particularly concerned with. Firstly, we must turn the appropriations from motorways to railways and other collective solutions. We want the railway to connect all of Norway, not four-field highways and planes. That there is still almost twice as much on the road as on the railway from the government, SV can only regret it. SV will take a real lift for the railway, and we'll grant closer to 2 billion. kr more to the railway in our alternative budget. Secondly, we need to invest in the electrification of the coast, and there are several county municipalities and important players in the industry themselves at the front – far ahead of the government, which has not been included in the hour. SV has in several respects requested greater efforts on coastal electrification. This applies both to access to charging current and to environmental requirements in the case of tenders. I would like to refer to the group leader of Hurtigruten AS, who regrets that the authorities have not been offensive enough. He could tell in a talk earlier this year that ships at Norwegian ports have emissions equal to five million cars — listen to that figure: five million cars. The high-speed route has invested a lot in order for several ships to have shore-side power connections, without a single port being able to provide them with a plug for connection. With the ferries, we've come a long way, not least because of offensive county municipalities, like Hordaland. In 2021, 50–60 electric ferries may be in operation. We are at an incredible crossroads in terms of technology and opportunities. But for more ferry routes to be electrified, it needs financial support. It will cost extra for county municipalities to require a transition to zero emissions. Therefore, SV proposes this time to set up a new reward scheme for river ferries, in line with the reward schemes for urban collective action. Although climate considerations are the most important thing, one should remember that for Norway, the green shift in the shipping industry offers incredible opportunities. Hardly any country has better conditions to be in the driving seat for innovation, construction, testing and use of such vessels. Then there's a brilliant export potential in heels.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3694	Justice policy shall provide security and security, it shall not least contribute to the prevention of crime and shall contribute to the respect of laws and regulations. It shall ensure that no one returns to crime after having completed his sentence. It requires a wise, listening and knowledge-based policy. Unfortunately, this government is most concerned about what I would call a tough-on-crime policy, based on the fact that deterrence is to prevent crime. Let me give you a list: with this budget, the prisoners will be given worse terms of compensation, and it will be worse to be in prison. There shall be fewer employees and more use of lock-in and isolation. There will be less money for training and education and night work. There shall be less money and less access to free legal aid. Nor will the lawyers who offer this should have their resources strengthened. There shall be less money to strengthen the protection of prisoners who have completed the zone. Prisoners are to be sent out of the country to foreign prisons, where rehabilitation and proximity to the home environment are weaker. Foreign offenders are to zone abroad, even if it is unwarranted in terms of protection against torture and abuse. Poor refugees must also be deterred. The government will cut off the humanitarian contribution, and although it is not part of the draft budget, the Minister of Justice's eagerness to put weapons on the hip of the police is in this pattern: 'tough on crime', hard on the criminals, hard on the convicted. That's what a wants to show. In this way, justice politicians from the Right and the Advance Party will show that they are capable of action and beat with steel fists. It's not important to them if it works. Arguments, knowledge and analyses and feedback from the professionals in the criminal services and the justice field are blazing like water on goose. The fact that criminals leave Norwegian prisons with a hatred for Norwegian institutions and are more resource-poor than when they were put in, obviously does not concern them. Tough on crime is what is important to show. In its alternative budget, SV goes the opposite way. Security and crime prevention must be ensured through social and economic austerity, and we will, of course, invest in both legal security and justice. In criminal custody, we want to ensure that good reconciliation makes it easier for convicted persons to adapt to a life of freedom without returning to new crime. We also believe that criminal convictions should zone in Norway and have the same human rights guarantee as other Nordics. «Tough on crime» is perhaps funny in American feature films, but only works against its purpose in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3709	Most politicians talk about the importance of the family as the most important building block in society. However, when priorities are set and family needs are weighed against the demands of working life, all too often families become those who lose — including when the government budget is to be set, and the large Community money bag is to be distributed. Too often, the long-term and comprehensive perspective of family policy is absent. Safe families are essential for raising the next generation of citizens and workers, and that someone at all chooses to have children, to become parents, is essential for the future sustainability of our country, and care can also be a full-fledged and important work for society. From this point of view, it has been particularly important for the Christian People's Party to raise families with special needs on the care side. Parents who are in the enormously demanding situation that they have to watch their children fight against serious illness should not have to fight against the system in order to be at home and present for their sick children. The care allowance scheme is precisely about us, as a society, considering these caregivers to be worthy of employees. As parents of seriously ill children, they are irreplaceable to the needs of care that arise. For the Christian People's Party, care allowance was therefore a priority matter for which we wanted to have an impact in the budget negotiations. Family protection is simply about the existence of a system that ensures that some reach out a helping hand to families who are struggling, whether in escalating conflicts between their parents, children who are afraid of an aggressive father, or children who are afraid of Christmas because Mom drinks too much. Family protection and child protection shall ensure that children grow up safely and provide help to parents facing challenges. The Christian People's Party wants to make the threshold to seek help as low as possible. We know that divorce in many cases involves enormous emotional stress for the children, as well as the material social costs it has. But the price the children pay is too high for the Christian People's Party to just sit quietly in the boat. Investing in family protection is primarily an investment in good childhood but also a socio-economic investment for the future. Therefore, the Christian People's Party is lifting family protection measures by nearly 60 million. kr in the next year's budget. The last budget review on the family front I will proudly raise is the four additional months of twin parental leave that the Christian People's Party was fought through. These are four completely new, fresh leave months given to twin parents in the most chaotic phase, where the two new world citizens need food, care and care around the clock. Our goal is that twin parents get double leave all the way, but this we have to take in stages, and we've already received good feedback from twin parents who are very happy that we've got this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3720	I take the floor here tonight because the representative Trond Giske earlier today lacks knowledge of what'social' reforms the government had presented to the Stortinget. It is that a good society is a society that provides opportunities for everyone, and everyone who can, also has the opportunity to contribute to society, and not least to participate in society. As politicians, we have a duty to think from a generation perspective. Therefore, it is also important that we use the action space we have, to invest in the very future. So it is that virtually all the government reforms have a social aspect in them, whether they relate to national health and hospital plans with decentralised hospital structures, which the government has adopted here in Stortinget, or whether it is the police reform that secures more police from offices to services among people most, or better roads that get people home safely, or the municipal reform that facilitates better skills in services such as: child protection and the municipal health service. In the community reform, it is about building strong municipalities that can provide good welfare services and create social security and well-being for the inhabitants of the whole country, both now and in the future. It might be the best social reform we've had in a long time, even though Trond Giske doesn't see the point and wants to reverse a lot of this reform. Over 150 municipalities have decided that they want to merge, and a total of about 100 municipalities are making mutual merger decisions. With the municipal reform, the government has laid a basis for passing on a tradition of strong welfare municipalities, where municipalities have a great responsibility and a great deal of room for action, to create well-being and social security for the inhabitants. The decision of the largest municipality in June means that 121 municipalities are merged into 47 new municipalities through the municipal reform, and approx. two thirds of the population have a new municipality. The voters experience good results from the government and the cooperation party's policies, and we have been given renewed trust from the voters in the election. The working party's winging and reversal in most reforms was no temptation for the voters. Social well-being is also not resilient with the Workers' Party's reverse policy. A job to go to is maybe the best welfare we can have. Then we need a strong and focused control. Now we see economic growth, and across the country companies report higher output. Growth in the Norwegian economy has so far been higher than expected, and unemployment is falling. The activity increases in most industries. We have a positive view of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3737	Differences in power and wealth are increasing. The richest get richer, but many stay standing. It has been strange to be a new representative and hear the right side stand here and paint its rosy picture of the situation in Norway. I think someone's been living on sheltered staggering wages for a little too long. In Norway today, people with poor advice die many years earlier than others. The differences take life. Poor people get consistently worse treatment throughout the health system, and even in our country the class differences shine against us when people smile. Bad advice often gives bad teeth, because even in the world’s richest country, dental health is not covered in health care. Patrick is one of the many people who need help with their teeth, but he can't afford to pay $200,000, and is not poor enough to get the benefit. He can tell you about the shame you feel when you don't even dare smile properly. I believe that one of the most beautiful things about the welfare state is that we should receive treatment no matter who we are. It's not just there when we're struggling, it's a community where we create security together. But there are holes in the welfare state, and the sitting government makes the holes bigger. The government has cut free physiotherapy for burns, cancer surgery, lambs and others on the diagnostic list. The donation scheme for medicines on white prescription is closed to new ones, which means that people like MS-sick Tove have to go out with $30,000 a year to get the drugs they need. Fewer will get help. Parents with children who are seriously ill for more than five years lose their care and must choose between living poor or sending their seriously ill children away to an institution. We all have limited resources in our budgets. We have to give priority, and I'm never going to understand how the right-hand side representatives can seriously think it's more important to give 20 billion. kr in tax cut, of which approx. Half to the richest in Norway, rather than hiring doctors who can cure cancer, midwives who provide safe births, or health sisters who help the girl who is struggling with eating disorders. Outside this building, people are in line. They need help. They can't afford it, and they're meeting increased props, but they don't fit in the party numbers on the right-hand side in here. SV suggests a government budget that would have reduced the differences between people. We propose the phase-in of the max. price for dentists, exemption from the side effects of the doctor for children until they are 18 years old, free physiotherapy, continued contributions to medicines on white prescription. And every child gets fruit and green or school food, and physical activity, which will prevent health problems and class differences. Politics is about prioritizing. Where the government prioritises tax cuts the highest, SV proposes a government budget for the many, not for the few.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3754	We live in a country far north, where it is not revealed that one has the natural powers to be one of the world's best countries to live in. With deep fjords and high mountains, the transportation challenges are great. With winches and winds, it must provide special room for physical surroundings. But we have the sea rich in resources and fish, oil and gas, and we have water power. We have an innovative environment of expertise in several disciplines that might put Norway on the world map. We have a mentality and a culture for innovation and innovation. But none of this comes of itself. It must be stimulated and facilitated. Business must have working conditions that make it viable and can create jobs, which are the basis for our well-being. On my visit to companies in the election campaign, there were some issues that turbulence more than others. The tax and tax pressure that was too high in times of poor ignition and slim order books was one of the things that went back. But also concerns about missing infrastructure, which means that our business life has the same good competitive conditions, were clearly communicated. The budget that has now been presented gives us good answers to the challenges that we face and that industry is asking for. Even with moderate use of oil money, efforts have been made to guide us towards goals that are conducive to good workplaces. The Government Party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has prioritised tax incentives for growth and investment, as well as research, infrastructure and well-being. We have got a budget base that stimulates work, which serves to strengthen our defence and preparedness, which continues to reduce health cows, who care for those who need us, who tend to train our teachers further and further to get the best education for our children and young people, and who give industry the innovation power and framework conditions that make us attractive to foreign companies and their families, so that Norwegian companies also see the value of having value creation locally. The debate has shown us so far that the budget we have been given to us is a good one. What we have heard here today is only small ripples on a large ocean full of possibilities that the budget provides. We can attend a meeting in 2018 safely. With this budget, we guarantee the well-being today and equip Norway for the future, where the transformation and modernisation of Norway continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3769	In its 2018 budget, the Central Party has proposed a large increase in the appropriations for county roads by decomposing 1 billion. kr for maintenance and renewal. The proposals of the trade unions for the National Transport Plan for 2018–2029 indicated the need for between 1.5 and 2 billion. kr annually in order to maintain the standard on the county roads. Our county roads make up 80 pst. of the total length of the national and county road network. 45 pst. all fatal and serious accidents occur on the county roads. The county councils are unable to give priority to the necessary investment on the county road network within the budgetary frameworks of the government together with the Christian People's Party and the Left have given the counties over the last few years. For 2018, the government proposes an increase in the county councils’ framework of 200 million. DKK, of which 100 million. Kr is set off for coastal states' boating and ferrying operations, we can read out of the proposal. Of the 100 million. In other words, the counties must be able to invest in higher education, public transport, dental health, culture and increased maintenance and renewal of the county road network, while at the same time increasing wages and prices. It's not going to work at all. I record that the figures for the government parties say that the government has prioritised real growth in the appropriations for the county roads. I need evidence of this, and in different contexts I have tried to find the real possibility of such a priority out there. I don't know a single state politician who shares that conviction, regardless of party. Why is this so important? Well, it's important because both business in this country and people in general depend on a county road network that is safe to drive on and that provides opportunities for efficient transport services. The county road network is essential for the transport of food and thus a condition for the export-oriented enterprises with which we otherwise like to adorn ourselves in this country. Fisheries have become more important and important among our export industries. This is a future industry that will increase in importance in the future. Not least from this industry, we hear increasingly strong warnings about a poor standard that delays deliveries, exposes carriers to dangerous situations and, not least, reduces the revenue to our common well-being. In the centre party, we listen as warnings are being promoted against progressive decay on the county roads, and put real money on the table. Unfortunately, we have remained alone in our efforts. Lack of funding to the county roads is only part of the government's and the majority of the population's unwillingness to invest in the development of business throughout the country. The large cuts in broadband and regional development funds are added. It is becoming more difficult to invest in industrial activities and new jobs outside large cities. The willingness to bet on the whole of Norway is failing – first by the government and then by the Left and Christian People's Party – shows the budgetary agreement negotiated. I'm very disappointed on behalf of the business community.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3787	For one who is concerned with the well-being of the defence, the draft budget is a good reading. It is very gratifying that the government is doing well to repatriate Norway's defence capabilities, because after 1990 we have seen a sharp and dramatic decline in defence. What was once a credible defense was reduced to almost nothing. It was therefore essential to reverse the negative trend and to start repatriation. The government's draft budget for 2018 is a clear and clear follow-up to the long-term plan. Fortunately, the land power proposition is also well politically anchored by a broad political agreement between the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. This provides the necessary predictability of the forward moves. This is fully in line with the aim of the Progress Party to restore defence capabilities. Then I make a big political leap over to transportation. The historically high rate of traffic continues. This government has prioritised transportation and increased the frames by over 60 pst. since it took over. With the Advance Party State Council Solvik-Olsen at the head, new roads are being built on a large scale. And it's not just being built new, it's also being used for maintenance. That is absolutely necessary. After several decades when the maturity or maintenance allowance has been allowed to increase and increase only, this government manages to reduce the maturity. For one who has been involved for a long time in county policy, the major maturity of the county road network is a well-known case. It is easy to recognize the frustration that an ever-increasing maintenance maintenance run creates around the whole country. Road and rail upgrading is good for the whole country and not least for the districts. Making it easier, faster and safer to move people, goods and services helps to increase and also keep value creation in the districts. It also helps to maintain housing in the districts. A good transport policy is a good district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3800	It is the municipalities that are responsible for basic welfare services such as kindergarten, school and care for the elderly. Therefore, we need strong municipalities that provide us with good services and that facilitate good industrial development in the municipalities. The government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, provides for the fifth time a budget with a commitment to a strong community economy. For 2018, a growth in the free income of municipalities is projected to provide good conditions for municipalities to provide good services to their inhabitants. The municipalities have gained a stronger real growth in their free income with the Right in Government than they received under the Red-Green Government. In 2016, the municipal sector had the strongest operating result in 10 years. We allocate more money to county roads. Never before have there been fewer municipalities on the ROBEK list. The municipality of Norway is doing well. New jobs are created all over the country, unemployment is falling, and growth is increasing. Therefore, it is also quite understandable that people did not believe in the Workers' Party and the Centre party when they in the election campaign tried to draw a dark picture of the Municipality of Norway. An important task for municipalities is to ensure that disadvantaged people obtain housing. Housing is one of the pillars of our lives. Without a roof over the head, it's pretty hard to operate in other contexts. The number of homeless people in Norway is now record low, and the decline is greatest among children. It hasn't come of itself. The government has targeted both housing support and the Start-up loan scheme, so that those who need it the most, also get the most. Among other things, we have correcting the faults that were left by the Workers' Party, so that the housing support is now adjusted. We have strengthened the arrangements for low-income families, so that children do not grow up in poverty. For example, the income of children is taken into account. no longer included in the calculation of housing aid, and the ceiling on housing costs for larger households has increased. Much has been done in the last four years to ensure that more people can obtain a dwelling. But here, together with the municipalities, we must continue to pursue an active social housing policy, which has also worked for the last four years. We will give priority to the rental-to-owner model, which allows more disadvantaged people to have the opportunity to buy their own home. It will build up below the ownership line and make even more people experience pride by owning their own housing, building good living environments, and last but not least, it will also lead to fewer children growing up in poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3811	A good society is a society that provides opportunities for everyone. A good society must also be a sustainable welfare society. The government has taken action to rust our country for a new time at, among other things. to have delivered the most ambitious national transport plan of the time. So we're going to spend 1,000 billion. kr over the next 12 years. In the 2018 budget submitted, the major effort continues, with further increases in the budget. In the election campaign and in the alternative national transport plan, the Labour Party promised many billion more than the government. Now, on the other hand, the Workers' Party does not propose in its alternative budget to spend one penny more on road construction than the government parties. They're breaking the people's transport promises. In concrete terms, the Workers' Party proposed in its alternative NTP 5.1 billion. kr more in the first period for the acceleration of a total of 27 projects, with a total of 55 billion. kr. This in itself was very alarming, and there are many false hopes in many communities. The right pointed out this lack of realism in the election campaign. The alternate budget of the Workers' Party gives us the right. They're breaking their travel promises. This is another example of the new line shift in the Working Party. Under this government and in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, we see that the maintenance system goes down, new connections are completed, new projects are planned, and new projects are implemented. The turnover has actually increased by 60 pst. since 2013. So we see that even though the Workers' Party increases the taxes on Norwegian-owned businesses and people most of them by over 8 billion. kr, they are unable to prioritize the election vows that they had a few months ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3834	In the light of the principle of equality and equal treatment, it is still a long way to go for the Sami industries and the development of language and society. It is despite the fact that it has been established that the country is based on two people: the Norwegian and the Sami. We have a Sami National Theatre, Beaivváš, which operates in premises that are harmful to the health of its employees. We have Saemien Sijte, the Southern Sami cultural centre, where you've been fighting for 30 years to get out of a simple brackish ridge. We have the Sami cultural heritage in the form of old objects that were stolen from us, and where there are still no funds and no facilities to bring back these cultural taxes. It is discouraging to see that there are still no allocations to central institution building despite great promises. The time is now overdue to take a stand for the Sami institutions and provide them with employment for the development of both Sami culture and Sami social life. Furthermore, I would like to focus on the structural discrimination of a Sami industry by not raising key issues that are being promoted to treatment. Here I will refer to the annual requirement of the reindeer industry for equal treatment in terms of taxes and taxes, and full recognition as an industry. The matter was already settled in the Sundvolden statement, and the last harvest the government parties went out loud with promises that this was now about in a box. However, from the draft budget, we first see that the matter is now restricted to only a one-off charge for snowmobiles, and secondly that the case has not come much further than four years ago. The one-time fee is a good one-time fee, but it's a good one-time ticket. Even there, both actual content, limitations and progress have not yet been clarified. The industry is promoting a quite reasonable claim here. It is a requirement for recognition and non-discrimination with other similar industries. Purification as an industry is still faced with an over-the-counter approach in view of the need for operating materials, household goods and equipment. It will be quite appropriate now to carry out a thorough review of the economic conditions of reindeer farming. It is gratifying that the centre party has now reduced a reindeer professional sample just to give priority to such issues. It's in the name of equality and equivalency.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3847	It looks like next year we'll also get a good budget. After all, it must be painful for the opposition parties – as old-fashioned in their election campaign on high unemployment, low oil prices, high emissions and an insecure economy – to control the country against new optimism. We can see a red thread – or rather a blue thread for our part – in our budgets, namely lower taxes and taxes for most people. There has been a tax relief of almost 25 billion. kr since 2013. We phase out machine taxes to increase the profitability of companies and secure Norwegian jobs. The red tape and efficiencies reform continues and frees up 1.7 billion. kr in 2018. The total car charges go down, car emissions go down, and let me present today's happy report: The average CO 2 emissions for new cars sold in November were 81 grams per km. In 2006, the figure was almost 180 grams per km. The next ‘fun fact’ is that most of the reduction has come after 2013. We know which party came into government in 2013. It shows that the right incentives are working. It's not that you can ban yourself out of everything, or you have to send billions of bills to ordinary people to choose climate friendly. The green shift is not about not leaving to travel on vacation, showering in cold water and other chicken things. Norway is on the right track, and we have to stop talking about Norway’s important climate action. Many people say you don't have to build a road to save the climate. But what's the point of not building a road if the car that's about to drive on the road is emission-free anyway? Is the motive then to reduce emissions or to substantiate their own car prejudices? In my home country, West Agder, such a reversal would be disastrous. Now there is a new four-field motorway from Kristiansand to Stavanger under the direction of the company Nye Veier. Norway’s Lastebilgeier-Verbund had a test in August this year, where they found that 35 km of new motorways removed almost 3,500 tonnes of CO 2 annually compared to if one had driven the old road – because the consumption went down. If you initially don't like the car, the road or the truck, it's sad that such a calculation doesn't taste good for the climate, even if it tastes good for the climate. I'm going to finish where I started, by commending a good budget that maintains a sustainable welfare society, which continues the great promises, such as. National transport plan, which converts to the low-carbon society without a whip, creating growth and jobs and taking Norway in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3866	As a voice from the West – or more specifically More and Romesdal, because we are not allowed to name the West any more – I simply want to refer to our alternative budget. When we sit here and discuss today, it actually has to do with what people's lives in the country are going to be like. I think we need to think about that a little bit when we discuss it. That is why we have strengthened the municipal economy only in Møre and Romesdal by over 100 million. kr because we want to strengthen care for the elderly, the school and the health sector. One example: the municipality of Sunndal does not have exactly an abundance of right-wing voters. They haven't traditionally had that, and I don't think they get it either. Because what this government has done is reduce the municipal budget by tens of millions. In addition, it has been decided to close the asylum-seeker with 50-60 skilled jobs and important long-term services. The government is weakening the county's ability to help with regional development funds, industrial funds, etc., and an example of the wrong path to go is that we got the largest industrial plant in Norway to More, the Worm Lange field and the land plant in Nyhamna, where a sheep on land gas sends it to England. A starting point for regional development funds. So we actually have to think about these are important means that now just disappear more and more for every year. Transportation has been a topic here, and I heard Jonny Finstad's posts, in which I don't know me at all. We have a Minister of Transport who, at least, does not know where More and Romsdal are, and who are unable to give priority to the projects that are prioritised. In the previous NTP, Betna–Stormyra stood as a priority project. There was no money in the last period. Then the election campaign was held in 2017 and said that this should be prioritised – now it is good – and sold it in as a new project. But there was nothing. In 2018 you still stand and speak for deaf ears. Many have acted in the municipality and said that this is a dangerous way to go, and that they need money. It's been yellow stripping, they've been knitting yellow strips, and they've had angelic action, but unfortunately God hasn't heard them yet. It's actually a very positive thing that's happened in this state budget, and for which I want to commend everyone. It is that we have been given money for a new North-Møre and Romesdal hospital, and I will say, finally! It is a positive case that everyone should be grateful that they have stood behind today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3879	The debt to Norwegian households is at the world peak, and the debt growth is in percent twice that of the wage growth. A very large part of the increased private consumption is therefore financed by loans. On average, it means tens of thousands of dollars per family. Many jobs in private services will be at risk if interest rates rise by only 3-4 pst. This could happen in the event of a new financial crisis. International debt is now much higher than in 2008, and now the nation states will not have the financial capacity for large-scale corporate bailouts. Our oil fund can dampen the consequences of lower private consumption, which can increase unemployment. The size must therefore thoroughly discuss a business life with new, green jobs and a safer working life. First Business: Politically, we need to break the business neutrality of government and implement a long-term strategic enterprise policy that ensures far better profitability in the production and processing of our huge renewable natural resources. We have to think that a Norway without shipping is not Norway, and that a Norway without forestry and woodworking is not Norway. This is how we can continue fishing, agriculture and renewable hydropower. Never have we exported so much tile and sandalwood to Sweden. Prices are almost 100 kroner lower per cubic metre than in Sweden. The value creation in Norway is miserable. The job opportunities are great, but it costs to establish modern industry. Soon it will be about the future of the Saugbrugsföreningen in Halden and Nordenfjeldske in Skogn. In this year's government budget, the Central Party proposes a state green carbon investment company with a starting capital of 10 billion. kr, which may contribute to investment aid, long-term risk loan capital and equity capital in order to co-finance modern technological enterprises such as: produces biochemical products. Exhaust gas is the cause of the climate problem. Photo synthesis is the most important part of the solution. It is therefore necessary to continue to work to ensure that the CO 2 tax on exhaust gas can finance the forest tax, which is to be used under the Forest Act to bring new quality forests up. A hundred dollars per cubic metre of timber is necessary. Good growth forest consumes more CO 2. This is how we can lay the foundation for new, green jobs through improved profitability. The second problem that needs to be discussed in depth is the organisation of the labour market and of the labour market. Free labour immigration outside the Nordic region must be replaced by controlled labour immigration, with demands for employment contracts with Norwegian pay and working conditions and permanent residence. The Labour Environment Act, which is the Labour Protection Act, needs to be tightened up in order to ensure that the safety of the labour market is restored. The central party's terrestrial green alternatives are based on the use of the People's Government to correct market forces. Then we can also keep our election promises. The right market is insufficient to build secure societies, to invest in green business and to create safer working lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3902	Petter Eide of SV polemises over criminal policy to the Right and the Progress Party and calls the budget ‘tough on crime’. I'll taste a little bit of the term, but I'm not sure I agree. But one is certain: it's not the solution to dealing with crime with silk gloves, as SV adds up. We have provided a budget where the police are budget winners, but everything cannot be resolved by means of money. There have been major changes in crime, and it requires transformation. Since the adoption of the near-police reform in 2015, the police and county council has started this transition, which is demanding for the states, but absolutely necessary. Moreover, the reform is much more than a structural reform. Culture, attitudes and management are an important part of the reform – and not least quality. A number of measures have been put in place to strengthen the culture, attitudes and leadership of the police and, according to the recent Interim Report from diffi, the reform process is on the right track. The police have taken on board that they have to work in other ways, and here we already see that the method of police work on-site provides better quality of police work. The office can now be moved on wheels by digital means. I was recently visiting the janitor's office at Oppdal, and they were very pleased with this way of working. In addition, there is work on the opinion climate, which means that the police should learn from errors, and it should be safe to say from the floor. We must contribute to debate and dialogue. So there's a lot of focus on management and governance. Here it may be mentioned that the National Leadership Group is established. Support for the leadership group in the districts and the programme for the first line managers is established. The diffi report also shows that the municipalities are pleased with the cooperation with the police. In Malvik, in Trøndelag, where the Länsmannskontoret was joined with Værnes, it is reported that there has never been more visible police out there. So it is useful to move the police from the office and into the cars. I also need to talk a little about the money that has been granted. During the transition, it has been necessary to set aside funds specifically for the reform, and there it is set at 565 million. kr. The 2018 budget also follows up in this area, and it is set out by money specifically for the reform. We are committed to achieving the target of two police officers per thousand inhabitants by 2020, and we are on the right track to achieve this. There has been an increase in purely police posts of 1 000 annual works in total, and the police and officers' seat has been strengthened by 2 000 more colleagues in total. This is a good budget for the police of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3913	Everything in the Sundvolden Declaration stated to the government that they would ‘modernize and strengthen civil defence crisis preparedness’. Experience has shown us that we need an operational resource with well-organised, well-equipped and trained departments that can help in a range of events and that can act as a reinforcement for other emergency seats. In recent years, civil defence has been increasingly in contact with emergency services, county councillors and municipalities for assistance in emergency situations. Several parts of our country have been the result of extensive natural events, among other things. extreme weather, wheezing and race. In addition, they have helped with major fires and search operations, and not least we learned that the role of civil defence in the 2015 refugee crisis was very important. Civil defence has, over time, faced challenges in seeking exemptions from the financial loss of the service. Many service providers who have completed basic courses have for the same reason refused to take orders. With this as a backtrace, today's Civil Defense doesn't have an adequate number of commands in its departments. The duty of service is the foundation of civil defence, and service providers are required to provide financial evidence for their efforts. The current system of proof does not satisfy the basic principle that should be imposed by service providers and, as I said, imposes a financial burden on many. In addition, there have been differences in the practice of evidence between the Home Office, the police and the civil defence on the same type of mission. This has been an unfortunate practice that is now being corrected by proposing an increase of 9.4 million in the 2018 budget. kr to new civil defence evidence regime. Over time, the civil defense has also worked up a substantial material aftertaste, and large parts of the equipment have been characterized by old age and wear. In order to carry out the social mission in a satisfactory manner, civil defence must have adequate and relevant material. It's been opened over 30 million. kr for this purpose in the years 2014–2017, and for 2018 we strengthen the promises further with a new 13.3 million. kr. I am glad that in recent years the budget commitments have given us a stronger and more modern civil defence and through it a strengthened preparedness across the country. Anyone who has been in tough and demanding emergency situations knows how important it is that everything works on the day of the crisis. It is therefore very gratifying that civil defence will be further strengthened in the 2018 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3924	Many representatives, in particular from the Workers' Party, have been engaged in comparing the efforts made by this party and the previous government in terms of work and welfare during today's financial debate. In particular, at the beginning of this debate the representative proposed an undisguised nostalgia for the existence of the Red-Green Government. When it is first invited to such a comparison, there is an exercise I more than like to participate in, especially when it comes to the ability to create Norwegian jobs in general and for young people in particular. The representative Geske claimed earlier today that 360 000 jobs were created with the Workers' Party in government. One thing is that the oil price at the time was record high, more interesting is that the number of young people who were out of work nevertheless increased over the same period — from 47 000 in 2008 to 70000 in 2013. The question then is, how was it possible to create 360 000 jobs while 23 000 more young people fell outside? The answer is that the whole growth of employment in this period was due to non-resident labour force. This was the assessment of former senior executive in LO, Stein Reegård, who also reported in 2014 that it was especially young and younger men who had been pushed out of the labour market with this policy. In addition to the legacy of the red-green, with lower growth and increasing unemployment, the government of Solberg has experienced a historic oil price drop, where 50,000 jobs disappeared. Nevertheless, the number of young people outside the labour market has not increased significantly in recent years. This is because this government has provided young people with a new chance by focusing on targeted measures. We launched a new national youth effort in 2017 and have increased the funding by 70 million. kr next year - a total of 100 mill. kr in the 2018 budget. But the work on youth unemployment is probably so much about making demands that prevent unemployment, inaction and non-response. That is why we have introduced an activity obligation for young social welfare recipients, so that young people who can work get a meaningful offer and get into work or education. We have introduced a limit of absence, which has so far ensured that undocumented absences in high school have dropped by more than 40 pst. for days and 25 pst. for hours, and we have introduced a general access to temporary employment, which will give more young people who would otherwise have problems getting a job, an opportunity to try. We have a lot left to do, but this government is not ashamed in any way of comparison with the previous one. I would rather argue the opposite, and so far it also seems that the voters agree with that analysis.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3936	When politics frames those who depend on free food distribution or free legal aid, fortunately people react. This clearly irritates those behind it. Since the 2018 budget came, the previous speaker and the right-hand side have tried otherwise on a very little impressive story: they are the ones that are a pity. These cuts are necessary. They take responsibility for long-term economic governance, and then they just shut down. Not even the media will be able to help them. But there'll be something helpless all over, because the right-hand side has simply seen itself in this situation. Tax policy goes into its fifth year. It's a policy that combines five very bad properties. It does not create growth and jobs, it increases differences, it helps empty the oil fund, it weakens the large budgets for schools, health and the elderly, and it leads to small cuts towards weak groups. This jackpot from a presumptuously responsible government can rightly be called a scandal, and he is present because the negative effects strike every year – even if news interest is gone. Such a policy is not led by a party with a backbone to resist pressure, but by the very opposite. It bears witness to the lack of ability to say no. A long-term and responsible economic policy is about disciplined use of oil money, proper reforms, vigorous efforts to get more people to work and a functioning food and tax policy. The working party did not agree on the business tax settlement agreement in 2016. We were the architect behind the agreement, because we are the party that combines fair distribution and well-being with real growth-promoting business policies. We now have a four-year period in which the opposition party, without exception, presented budget options with lower oil spending than responsible government. It is probably unique in world history – and of course very fluent in Right. That is why we are being served a dedicated rhetoric on growth-promoting tax havens, red tape and allegations of savings reforms. But when the naked numbers are presented in a budget, the truth comes out. In the real world, it's not possible to moderate the use of oil money and cut the tax revenue in large amounts without going beyond anyone. And then it doesn't seem to attack the Matsentral, Jussbus or the kids in 4H, for that matter. No, then one has to be free of the big posts, such as the community economy and health care agencies. And it has also happened this time with a very tight municipal structure and the weakest hospital budget so far from the sitting government. I think the right side is required to come up with a better story about the boat.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3949	Norway has been through some tough years. We have had a sharp fall in the oil price, particularly affecting the South and the West, through increased unemployment. But the rest of the country too was hit by a lack of income. The government has run the country through these times, and we now see that the policy is working. The activity is increasing, and the unemployment rate is falling. Norway is to convert and business is to invest in a wider range. But our oil and gas sector is going to be the leading industry in Norway for many decades to come, and we are going to be very happy about that, because much of this conversion is linked to high costs. These costs are also to be financed, and I see nothing more than that those against the oil and gas industries also use the same revenues from the same industry to cover the same costs. It is important not to forget our most important industry, which I get the impression that some people do when they talk about conversion and the green shift. We will continue our efforts in the oil and gas sector, provide industry with the predictability necessary through access to exploration areas, and maintain the current tax regime. This is not the time for conversion or for experimenting with changing framework conditions. Many people in this room are talking about the need for conversion, but fewer are talking about what is to be converted. Yes, the ‘reform break’ uses some in the same sentence as the ‘need for migration’. Norway can contribute on many fronts. We have technology, we have competence, and we have capital. In these environmental times, as a nation, we can use our technology to generate less emissions. We can use our competence to choose the environmentally friendly solutions, and we can use our capital to facilitate business with the state to develop and use the best solutions. Many will reduce emissions in Norway through reduced activity, but the truth is that the less activity is in Norway, the more emissions are global. It is a great pleasure now to remove the property tax on works and use, the so-called machine tax. This involves reducing expenditure and improving predictability for many enterprises. It will increase profitability, contribute to new investments and new jobs. We have to attract new industries, and data storage centers are talked about as one of these industries. Then we have to make sure that it can happen. It's transition. We do not build the future on yesterday's solutions. One does not come first by walking in the footsteps of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3964	It is interesting to hear the representative Halleland talk about Norway contributing to lower emissions in the future through the good industry we have. In the Labour Party we know that good framework conditions are important. One of the anti-business tax increases from the government of this budget is that it imposes a CO 2 tax on LNG used as fuel for shipping. It is not only anti-business, the increase in fees will also have the effect of damaging our environment. Why is it so important to stimulate shipping to move from heavy oil and diesel to LNG? Well, if you go to LNG, ships no longer release sulphur, and the emissions of NO x are reduced by 90 pst. So it removes what we call local emissions. In addition, it reduces the CO 2 emissions by 20 pst. For larger ships there are no more environmentally friendly alternatives today than LNG, and it is important to support the conversion to LNG. In addition to the environmental argument, the government is now saying no to continue an important industrial opportunity along our coast. In recent years, many new LNG ships have been built in Norwegian shipyards, and we have an industry with a high competence in LNG and the shipping industry. The industry now warns that plans for the construction of new ships and the construction of LNG infrastructure are being cancelled due to the CO 2 tax. In the rest of Europe, conversion to LNG is a high priority, with prohibition in parts of EU waters against diesel ships for environmental reasons. It is inexplicable when we have a coast that has competence, capacity and wants new assignments, that the government introduces a tax that prevents a development that everyone wants. I live in Narvik Municipality, which is invoked by 220 large ore ships every year. We've been working on expanding LNG access infrastructure as a follow-up to a development in a more environmentally friendly direction, but it doesn't seem like the government wants us to continue in that direction. In the Labour Party, we strongly focus on business in our districts. I have heard more in the debate here today asking: what are you going to do? Are you going to give up some industries in front of others? No, we're doing it through more regional development funds, we're doing it by strengthening Enova, we're doing it by investing in broadband development, we're betting on fishing ports, because most of the ports we want to expand, there's going one more way, and we're betting on a coastal value creation program and increased research. We believe that these efforts are important, because it is a fact that companies are not investing enough in Norway today and that the proportion of adults in work is falling.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e3987	This debate and, in fact, the beginning of the whole of this process has shown that the Workers' Party and the Centre have left their role as responsible parties. What is usually the trademark of parties with a responsible policy is that they hold a tough course, and that they have a long-term and predictable policy, and it is little about the policies of the Workers' Party and the Centre that can be characterized by it today. Throughout this campaign that we've been through, the Workers' Party talked about the importance of higher taxes. They painted one scary picture after another about how bad it could go here in the country if people kept a little bit more of their own money. But what they underestimated in total is that the voters last remember the red-greens put in government, they remember that the taxes went up, and they remember that there was no more well-being of it, but that the health cows stayed longer. Taxes give rise to positive synergies, they give rise to optimism, and they give rise to growth. We have shown that it is possible to bet on both tax havens for ordinary people and on more well-being. We've got more teachers, we've got more health sisters, it's become better community economy, we get more way, and we get shorter health cows with government policies. That people get to keep a little bit more of their own money, get a little faster, get faster at work, save tax expenses and contribute tax revenue, is positive for Norway. It's the recipe for a successful policy. After the election, the Labour Party has admitted far on the road that they were wrong in their strategy; they have admitted that they were unable to explain why they should increase taxes, but just as fully they are now continuing to increase taxes, for no reason. Then we just have to conclude that the Workers' Party's aim is itself to increase taxes. It's an ideology of its own for the Workers' Party to let ordinary people keep less of their own money. Another good example of the Wing of the Labour Party and the Centre Party is that in the election campaign they promised not to soften immigration policy. They were to pursue strict and responsible policies. But even before the Stortinget opened up, they were on the track with new proposals to see how they could get more groundless asylum seekers to stay in Norway for a long time. I think it's actually the way that voters don't want to go back to higher taxes, longer health cows, poorer municipal economy and an uncontrolled immigration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4002	First to Engen-Helgheim: It is now that the centre party was the election winner – the government actually went back. But my post will deal with what the finance committee's leader, Nikolai Astrup, said in his post when he spoke of the hospital budget as being strong. Everything's relative. The fact that in the hospital economy it is theoretically put up for growth is true, but we know that expensive drugs and large maintenance kits slowed down the growth. In addition, since 2013, Norwegian hospitals have been exposed to cheese requirements, which reinforce this underfinancing. A report carried out by the consulting company Menon on behalf of the Medical Association and the Nursing Association shows that the growth of the health budget has been lower than that of the population in the last six years. The situation is now that the country around is being cut in patient treatment in Norwegian hospitals. We can read about budget cuts that alert related maternity wards in Ahus, who roam psychiatry, among other things. in Finnmark, which cuts into an attack facility in Eastfold, leading to the closure of 60 beds in Bergen because the health agency has to reach a budget target of 200 million. kr. Health professionals also need to save money to afford needed new buildings. The plans for a new hospital in Stavanger lead to the closure of the Rehabilitation Department in Egersund. In Health Møre and Romesdal they have added up to a cut of 400 million. kr to next year, and even more over the next few years, in order to realize a new hospital on Health. The project is described as not having an economic capacity. This is the reality. The Norwegian hospital economy is not strong – he is weak. Researchers are also now warning of a situation where more and more beds are laid down in hospitals. It will especially affect our older people. In a report entitled Elrotselse Atlas for Norway, presented in June of this year, researchers warn against under-dimensioning Norwegian hospital services. More elderly people will lead to more acute hospitalisations, not fewer. The lying times in Norwegian hospitals are already very low. Yes, Norway has the shortest lay times in hospitals in OECD countries. Even shorter bedtime will be a challenge for older patients. Following the introduction of the interaction reform, hospital time has been reduced, particularly among older people. They account for half of the reduction that has been in place since 2010. The right’s ‘strong’ weak hospital budget thus leads to a cut in patient supply and to the centralisation of supply. Everything is related to everything: this also affects the health services in municipalities, care for the elderly, permanent and other services.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4022	For the fourth consecutive year, the Right-Fremskritsparte-government implements the level cut in the public sector, curtailed as a red tape and streamlining. Since 2015, the government has come with a cut package, but the amount of red tape and efficiency has been less predictable. This may be because the final percentage is not really the result of a strategically defined need to streamline, but instead has served as a containment for new purposes negotiated by the government’s supporting parties. It has become a sad Christmas tradition that efficiency cuts are stepped into the final budgetary agreement. For 2018, the government has agreed that the savings requirement should be increased from 0.5 to 0.7 pst., a kind of reverse Christmas gift. The government's logic seems to be that you take it, and you take it. It's easy to say for someone who doesn't know the size of the neck. However, take the university and higher education sectors as an example: with this agreement, the sector will have a accumulated cut of nearly 900 million. kr. Next year, it's $1 billion. kr if the government continues. As a former local politician, I have been in this way of ruling. We walked away from it in the Nesodden. I felt it was a poor, weak form of governance, because the elected people failed to take their responsibility. They pushed the loads down into the system. Political leadership is taking the difficult choices. Policies are priorities. It may in itself be difficult to understand the consequences of flat cuts, especially when they are late in the process and vary in extent. However, it should be reasonably clear to most that savings imposed on all establishments, no matter how effective they may be, carried out year after year, ultimately go beyond both service provision, local freedom of action and motivation. The Workers' Party is sceptical about using universities and colleges as balancing points to make budgets go up. It's neither very wise nor long-term. Further cuts could impair the quality of studies and research, and we do not support it. Reforming – reformers means reshaping: in the Workers' Party we see no thought behind these flat cuts. We believe that the Storting must take an overall discussion on the impact of the so-called red tape and efficiency reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4035	There's a lot of molested posts here today from the opposition, and we heard maybe the most mole voice from the workers' party representative Masud Gharakhani a little earlier this evening. I hope I can move the impression over to last by summarizing the efforts of government and budget agreement on volunteering and culture. 2018 will be a good year for the voluntary corps and corps community. The music corps are strengthened. Choir's going to get 10.6 million. kr for means of activity. We triple the grant to the Association of Norwegian Cordrigents. Singing triggers get 5.2 million. kr from the surplus on the toy. And the amateur theaters get $5 million. to new arrangements for the layout, equipment and projects of special interest to children and young people. Yes, this sounds like music to my ears and should sound good to everyone who loves choral and corps music. I also think I heard SV say that culture is starving in Norway – quite dry when state transfers to sport, culture and volunteering have never been higher than they are now. The appropriations have been increased by 22 pst. from where we took over in 2013. At the same time, transfers from the gambling surplus have also increased sharply, from 2.7 billion. SEK in 2013 to SEK 4 billion. kr in 2017. In the Right, we're crystal clear that we're going to continue to ensure good and predictable arrangements for volunteering. There is also an important system of VAT compensation, which has increased by 475 million. kr since 2013, a large increase that means too many teams and associations, also the club in my heart, where I fry a lot of waffles. When Eidsvold Turn purchased new wafer iron in 2010, we only got 35 cents of each kroner that we paid in VAT. But when we bought new wafer iron in 2016, we got back 76 cents of each kroner we had paid in VAT. Young volunteering is also important for the government. That is why we have ensured that masterless inheritance belongs to children and young people in nongovernmental organizations instead of the state. In 2018, it amounted to 24.5 million. kr to young volunteers. The total budget next year is over 11 billion. in transfers to voluntary activity. We can certainly say that there is room to create a very important volunteer in this country. Then we can also be proud of a rich and diverse cultural life in Norway, with strong basic government funding. But it is also the case that the cultural sector faces many new challenges as a result of a more globalised and digitised society. This is why the government's commitment to Creative Norway is important, a strategic development that will enable us to learn more from the artists, businesses and institutions that have succeeded in developing their areas of activity, which have reached new target groups and have engaged a wider audience. It's our responsibility to give culture more economic legs to stand on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4052	Unlike the representative, Engen-Helgheim, I have not drunk anything special about Møller's tran tonight, at least not too much, so I'm going to be a little careful to characterise the solutions that the government and the cooperation parties have come up with. But they have submitted a 2018 government budget where the Christian People's Party has negotiated important changes. Unfortunately, neither the government parties nor any of the cooperation parties found it important to provide money for the planning of double tracks on the Jærban. It's all about a few relatively few million dollars, but even the Left, which is called the railway party, refrains from this funding. Municipal politicians from all parties in the municipalities along the double track, including the Minister of Transport's home municipality, have tried to explain the importance of money for this purpose, but without reaching out to those who are in power. The Workers' Party understands the frustration in the municipalities between Sandnes and Egersund. Large areas along the railway line are tied for a future double track, but local authorities in these municipalities cannot plan anything to happen on or near these areas until they know what the track is going to look like. Thus, the development of the urban area along the track is at stake until planning is in place. In addition, parking challenges are high in some agglomerations. Nothing is happening here, despite the promises of Minister of Transport Solvik-Olsen. commuters choose to drive a car because they do not get a parking space at the station. These means of planning have been taken into account in the alternative budget of the Workers' Party, and we believe it is high time to start planning an important transport corridor for the whole of South Rogaland, which is within the current NTP. Now the government has to speed up the planning of this path, so that the region is about to plan its agglomerations. But if the government wants to scrape the whole double track, they get to say it, and don't keep the honorary municipalities from fooling, because then you break previous promises. But – to the representative of Engen-Helgheim – there is nothing new from this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4063	This harvest gave the four non-socialist parties renewed confidence by the voters. It tells me at least that the voters would see more of the policy that the government has provided in the last four years, and that is precisely the policy that is being pursued in the budget for next year. The Workers' Party's Gharahkhani made a flaming contribution earlier this evening where his desired left impression was that the government would not want the volunteer well. The representative made a number that the Minister of Culture is only concerned with waffles and brunost, but he then forgot that waffles and brunost are one of the most important contributions to Norwegian volunteering. The Minister of Culture has called for transparency and transparency of the economy at the top level of sport in Norway. This is a work she has done with a very clear voice, but where the opposition has been overwhelmingly silent until even seeing how serious the situation was. In parallel, the allocation to the top of Norwegian sport has been reduced and strongly reinforced to local activities for children and width. This is an important step in ensuring that the thousands of volunteers out there frying waffles every single day are confident that the revenue it generates is just going to work for their local members. The government is committed to volunteering and strengthens the interaction with the voluntary sector and facilitates more volunteering – at the very premises of volunteering. A good system of VAT compensation is continued and strengthened under the budgetary agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party. This is clearly the most important scheme for the voluntary sector, with an increase of 475 million. kr since 2013 to over 1.4 billion. kr next year. The grant of VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities is another important measure for voluntary activities. The scheme is increased to historically high 185 million. kr next year. This is $15 million. kr above the level of approved scheme applications current year and an increase of 120 million. kr since 2013. The government also strengthens the gift-enhancing scheme to 70 million. kr for 2018. It could trigger a total of 350 million. kr in private gifts and gift-enhancing grants. This is a scheme the Workers' Party is against. Claiming that the government will not do well to volunteer falls on its own unfairness. That lots in the opposition will give more to most, is far from what the same lots stood for when they were in government. I believe that volunteering itself is able to assess whether it is the practical policy or the beautiful promises that weigh more heavily.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4082	The Central Party shall contribute to increased efforts in the field of regional and regional policy in its alternative budget. We're proposing 500 million. kr in regional development funds, SEK 430 million. kr for increased broadband expansion and not less than 1 billion. kr for upgrading the county roads. In the budget of the Left and Christian People's Party, these parties are also proposing an increased investment in regional development funds. I am pleased that they share our assessment that the government's cut in food spending through county municipalities is dramatic and unfortunate. However, I am not as impressed by what they have managed to achieve in the negotiations on the budgetary agreement. There's an increase of 20 million. to operational programmes in the districts. That means that the government's cut-off proposal has been reduced from 330 million. NOK 310 million. kr for 2018. In total, the funds for regional development have been reduced to half since the government came to power. The social development role of the county councils, which we agree on when discussing the principle aspects of regional policy, is completely set aside in budgetary policy. It's dramatic. The cooperation of county councils with Innovation Norway, SIVA, municipalities and other actors involved in business life initiatives has been greatly reduced since the blue-blue government took over in 2013. The government says that the cuts they implement in district and regional policy provide room for increased rural investment. This is not the case. For 2018, the county framework has increased by 200 million. NOK 100 million. kr is set aside for coastal areas' boating and ferrying operations. There is no commitment on the county roads in the government's draft budget, nor in the budgetary agreement. The differences in priorities may be best seen when we break down the appropriations at municipal and county level. Let me use Trøndelag as an example: From 1 January 2018 we are one state, and that is why I am bringing together the consequences for the South and North Trondelag. The center part is $69 million. kr more than the Government for Upgrading the County Roads in Trøndelag and 60 million. kr more in regional development funds. The total budget allocated to the county increases by 116 million. NOK and to the municipalities of 208 million. kr in our budget. Let me add that we've also spent 13 million. kr in start-up funds for Saemien Sijte – the Southern Sami museum project in Snåsa. The numbers' speech is ready. For Trøndelag, there are several hundred million dollars in difference between the stakes of the Centerparty and the budget mates. The racetrack will be my last example of the failure of the government parties and of the cooperation parties. In the election campaign, the Right-wing Representative Agdestein was absolutely in his assurances that there would be a stake in the Trønderbanen in this year's budget. She said that all the speculations about it being exposed could be parked once and for all. Then came the election, then came the budget, and unfortunately the Tronderbanen is parked.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4101	In the debate on why the Workers' Party is so concerned with active industrial policy, the right-hand party previously wondered. There are several important reasons for that. I'll now explain two. Point one is that we want to create as many jobs as possible, and point two is that we are also using business policy as a tool to distribute values in Norway. There has been a success in Norwegian history, especially in relation to our natural resources. There have been many tough debates in this room, which could give a completely different outcome of what today's Norway had looked like, unless wise and visionary choices had been made. One of the choices that have been made in Norway is that we have to own oil resources together, and their values will benefit the wider population. There has been a issue of dispute in Norwegian policy, where more people want to sell out oil resources, i.e. the difference between an active policy of ownership and use and a passive policy of selling. I can also take an example from my own home region. There is an important natural resource in the forest, and with us we also have many beautiful buildings and bridges, where we have used the forest as a natural resource to create more jobs and ring-effects from the industry. OL at Lillehammer was a sporting success, but it also became a wood industry success. The Viking ship is built with a technology called glues, and we find that technology again on many bridges down our longest river in Norway, Glomma. The fact that the bridges are there is justified by an active industrial policy because the State Road Service said that we should have wood as structural material in bridges in Norway. It was not possible to make it economically profitable at that time, but because one has made active choices and invested in technology, it is now possible to create both greater values and, not least, to have a more climate-friendly production of bridges than would have been possible without an active industrial policy. The Labour Party believes that there is a forward-looking way to think about it. We are very proud of that, and it is also the basis of our proposal for a State budget, which has several good proposals just to strengthen efforts in the field of soil and forest research. So we want more of an active policy, and that's what we're going to fight for this entire big period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4113	The debate today illustrates that Norway is doing very well. Although this is potential for improvement in Norway, we actually live in the world's best country. There is also a little illustration in the debate here today, there are rather small differences in the hall. Perhaps the greatest difference of the red-green mantra is illustrated that all our solutions are tax-free to the richest, and that they themselves, who want more to all, intend to do this partly through tax increases and partly through unrealistic discovery proposals. Towards the end of this debate, I thought that I would bring forward a matter that I have been following closely in the last three to four years. It's the evolution we'll hopefully get in terms of swimming skills among Norwegian children. The swimming requirement for Norwegian children – and also for children in the rest of the Nordic region – is to roll out on deep water, you have to swim 100 meters on your stomach, you have to stop and rest, you have to float on your stomach, roll over and float for 3 minutes on your back, and then you have to swim 100 meters on your back. If you do, you have the swimming skill test. In Norway 50 pst. of our teens this – 50 pst. Half of Norwegian children are therefore swimmers. And if you look at some of our Nordic neighbours: Iceland may not be a country we should naturally compare with in this context, but nevertheless, there are 96 pst. swimmers, while in our neighbouring country Sweden – that’s comparable, we can compare with that – is 92 pst. of children of the same age group who are swimmers, only 50 pst. in Norway. The NRK had a case in Dagsrevyen today that shows that over 40 children in Norway have died in recent years because of drowning, and many of them could not swim. That is why we started a test scheme of 10 million in 2014. kr, a tiny sum, to test whether kindergarten training could work. So those who work in the kindergarten are taking the babysitters to the swimmers. So, the swimming association and other professional actors take over and teach them how to swim. There is early effort in practice and balances differences, because we know that private swimming education costs a lot, and not all parents out there can swim themselves and learn away from their children. We expanded this arrangement along with the government parties to $25 million. kr in 2015, last year to 35 mill. kr. This year the government proposes to continue this scheme with 35 million. kr. We in the left are very happy that this arrangement is now almost doubled, to a total of 65 million. kr, in the year to come. This means that 40,000 children throughout the country who go to kindergarten will receive free swimming training through such a scheme. I believe and hope that this can also please the other side of the political axis.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4132	The Central Party and I noticed that the Prime Minister earlier this autumn, in a rather toothless debate on the throne, stressed that we need to develop a sustainable welfare society, and that this includes the fact that we must succeed in integrating the immigrant groups. I agree. We get fewer refugees to the country, but we have many who are still in reception, pending settlement. Even more are recently resident in a municipality and are participating in an introduction programme, both to learn Norwegian and to learn social sciences, as a basis for getting into Norwegian working and social life. We have a government that focuses heavily on the demands that immigrants integrate into Norwegian society and take responsibility for their own and family lives by finding their place in the world of work. I don't think anyone in this room necessarily disagrees with those objectives, but I don't believe that the government's policy makes enough room for these goals to be achieved. Integrating into school and working life is essential for us to succeed in creating a sustainable welfare society. We also see that children and adults participating in sports and other local organizations, cf. brown cheese and waffles, connect contacts and develop friendships that are of great help to them in the integration process. In its 2018 draft budget, the Central Party has increased the appropriations for, inter alia: training in Norwegian and social subjects in our receptions, and we have removed a little thoughtful cut-off from the government budget, where there was no longer room for volunteer coordinators in receptions. When you hear the debate that has been going on here today, how many have stressed the importance of volunteering, it is a pity that you have not been able to find room for a volunteer coordinator, precisely to strengthen the good work of ensuring good integration. That's what the Center Party has done. We further react to the fact that many of the municipalities in the country have now been removed from the list of municipalities that are asking to settle refugees. The reason is that a priority should be given to housing in larger municipalities. So it has to be a minimum of 5,000 inhabitants to qualify to settle refugees. Many small municipalities – as is well known – have succeeded in integrating refugees and, not least, in offering them job opportunities. It is therefore incomprehensible that small municipalities that wish to continue their residence work because they have built a well-functioning apparatus and have succeeded in their work are now to be removed from the IMDi list with a request to receive new refugees. I believe that the municipalities asking for the residence of refugees must be selected on the basis of the results they have achieved, and not on the basis of municipal size alone. Norway has had a well-functioning refugee housing policy. We have largely avoided the development of ghettos and the establishment of parallel societies, with which some other countries are struggling. We therefore need to pursue a housing policy that allows refugees to become part of Norwegian society and integrate into future secure local environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4151	There are some points that have struck me during this exciting and dynamic financial debate. One of those points is that the tax debate has changed in the last ten to twelve years. Ten years ago, almost all teams were shut down if you at all thought about wanting tax relief to people most and to businesses. In 2017, both SV and Rødt are proud and proud of Stortinget's speech to proclaim that they give tax credits to people who earn above the average. Then we've come a long way. Hopefully, it won't take long before they realize that the taxes and charges for businesses and their owners should go further, so that we can secure both the jobs we have today and those that businesses will create tomorrow. The second point is a historical turn: the tax debate and the financial debate have taught us that the Central Party wants to increase taxes more than the Workers' Party. At least I don't remember the last thing that happened, and I think it's relatively historical. The third is that the Workers' Party is jumping off its promises in 15 billion. kr in increased taxes. That's good, but that leaves you with some questions. For four years, the Workers' Party has claimed that our tax concessions have been irresponsible, unsocial and unfair. Now, the Workers' Party keeps 15 of these irresponsible, unsocial and unfair billions in tax cuts – of course, to say the word of the Workers' Party – to all, the richest, I reckon. 15 B.C.E. kr was absolutely necessary and fair in order to carry out the tasks of all the welfare state in the election campaign. Now it's half that's necessary to achieve justice. What has happened on the road is not so good to say. The second thing that has surprised me in this debate is the Labour Party representatives who have called for the major reforms of the last four years. It's special, because there's one party that has countered most reforms, and that has taken all possible positions in almost every reform proposal, it's the Workers' Party. The ABE reform, the red tape and efficiency reform, is one example. We have carried out a major reform in the university and higher education sectors, which the Labour Party was both in favour and against, we have launched New Veier, which is going to save the drivers and taxpayers for several tens of billions of dollars in the years to come, and we are going to streamline the tax collection, as the Labour Party said no. It is the Workers' Party that stops the reforms, not this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4162	I'm very proud to be involved in securing a budget that increases economic growth, that gets more people to work, and that ensures a sustainable welfare society. We have gone through a difficult period, with low oil prices and a refugee crisis. We've been facing a worldview that's more uneasy and unwieldy than for a long time. In spite of this, the party of progress has been involved in steering the country safely and against a new optimism. In my home country, Hordaland, there was a lot of debate about machine taxes during the elections. Businesses, organisations and individuals stood up with their stories to tell us politicians why it was so important to remove just this tax. Maybe someone here in the hall remembers "Kjetting-Jan" from Sotra Anchor & Chain? I have to say that nothing delights a FrP's heart more than when one can tell so committed people that the Advance Party also delivers at this point. The removal of machine taxes is an important contribution for many companies in Hordaland, but it is also of great importance for the rest of the country. It contributes to job security and offers more opportunities for initial investment. It can also have good ring-effects around the municipalities, and not least it actually contributes to ensuring well-being. The progress team will have to cut the health cows further, and we will have to treat even more patients. Therefore, it was a milestone to secure the proton center in Bergen. The treatment given here is something that many people have yet to travel abroad to get. It is an important step in the fight against cancer, and for patients and their families it will be crucial to get such offers in place. I believe that this winner is primarily the families and patients to celebrate today. It will, of course, mean a lot at local level, but it is also very important at national level that we focus on so new technology. Last, but not least I will send a greeting to all our animal friends. This year's budget is a major step towards a nationwide animal police force. Our four-legged friends also have demands for security, and we know that this is a good prevention policy also against those who commit abuses against people. I am very grateful that the Storting goes in for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4173	Today's debate and, in particular, the change of lines has been a fascinating exercise in double communication. The government has submitted its budget. The cooperation parties have reached an agreement, but the government does not fully agree with the cooperation parties. It is tempting to remind the government parties that the cooperation parties also include the Right and the Advance Party. The Christian People's Party even called for enthusiasm from the prime minister of the teaching norm, which is part of the reconciliation. When you have responsibility, you also have to take responsibility. I have a expectation that the two government parties will be responsible for their own settlements, and that the two parties will not speak with two tongues when the budget is to be implemented. In the Labour Party, we are proud of our alternative budget. We are the ones that strengthen the municipal economy, so that municipalities can provide good services to people where they live. We are the ones that strengthen hospitals and give them a real space for action, so that we can offer better treatment and better working conditions for those who work in the health sector. And we're the ones who provide a budget where the ones who have the most contribute the most. This is the policy we stand for before, during and after elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4182	Although it's getting late, let's be unanimous and agree that we're all too waffles and brunost. But in the case of culture, we cut into the adult education support that culture depends on. We cut legal aid, that's to the weakest. The share of VAT expenditure that compensates for voluntary activity decreases by a fourth year. We don't put anything more into the pot so that we can take back the huge lag in new sports facilities, which many clubs and communities are screaming for. This is the good Christmas greeting from the government. And what happens after the budgetary agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party? Well, you choose to cut support for the film industry at a time when the film industry in Norway is doing very well nationally and internationally. This is called a major work accident. Yes, work accidents are what describe the government's attack on volunteering – time after time, budget by budget. It's sad that the volunteer has to come to the Grand Storting again and again. They need a government that supports them, who are with them, not a government that attacks them once and for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4193	It is often said that the debate on the throne is the debate on the opposition, while the financial debate is the majority. This is where the majority of those who have received a budget can describe their strong visions for the country, how to improve and develop, what objectives to achieve. It will be an insult to the word visions to use it if what the majority has done from this pulpit. There has been a tame debate, there has been a debate with few visions from the majority, few goals on how to solve these major tasks, provide work for everyone in a business that is changing enormously, make sure that we actually do something with the 15 000 young people who leave school every year without completing a letter or having a study qualification, make sure that we prepare for the huge task it will be to provide secure care for the elderly and good health to a growing older population, and how to solve climate change. It seems that the positioning parties are largely satisfied with the fact that one has managed to create a budget, and we congratulate the four parties on it, of course, but the direction, the goals, how Norway should develop further, was actually best summed up in Abid Q. Raja's posts: It's going very well in Norway, finished talking. It's a dangerous attitude. This house and this assembly must be prepared for us to go through tough times. The government itself describes in the national budget how the space of action has shrunk enormously after it would the use of oil for four years, how we are going to face much tougher choices, and how we have to prepare for a completely different future. Sivert Bjørnstad said that the Workers' Party is no longer talking about social tax cuts. Well, we'd love to, and we're changing and improving the tax system. Among other things, we reintroduce the wealth tax as it was in 2013, and we have tough grips where especially those who earn over a million, pay a lot more, and those who have low incomes get tax cuts – the very opposite of the distribution policy where 160 times more went to people who earn a lot, than those who earn little. But most of all, we have a completely different vision for Norway, a description of how we can use the amazing opportunities that the country has to create good and safe lives for people not only here, but also out there, and make sure that we solve the big problems together. That is what a budget must be about, and that is what the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left have not been able to describe. Although they had a few votes in this Chamber, the lack of visions, plans and objectives could explain why the four bourgeois parties together went back by 5-6 pst. in the choice we just have behind us.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4206	In this financial debate, the Right Party and the Advance Party try to create an image of themselves as the only responsible in Norwegian policy. So those who use record oil money, where most go to the richest, are responsible for what they still can't prove, except for those who get even richer. They are responsible for the fact that the Nordics are now among the most indebted people in the world, a development that the government itself admits to the national budget is not going to slow down. SV's fiscal spokesperson, Kaski, has been involved in oil money use, but I have not reported that anyone has so far taken up the ever-increasing debt of this society – in a financial debate in an increasingly indebted country – so let me make some comments about it. The vast majority of Norwegian society know how the housing market has developed into a speculative market. According to the OECD, the dwellings are 40 pst. Thank you very much for your speculation. The losers are all those who try to get a place to bow, but don't have a lot of parents. The government's response to this development is to tune down all proposals that aim to cool down speculation. These developments create debt, because where it is opened up to speculative price growth, debt also increases. Another burning example is that of fishing under this government, because in the housing market the prices for being able to take part in the fishing are taken off. Quotas have more than doubled in six years. Today, the lowest entry ticket in the fishing industry, known as the quota factor, costs 3.5 million. NOK, and that's before one has gotten a boat. It goes without saying that no young person can afford to enter this market. This is how a system rules for those who have a lot of capital. The same will also apply to agriculture, where the debt spiral has begun to appear. In recent years, debt has begun to grow. The government's pressure for larger and larger units leads to a dangerous debt growth. What happens to a indebted agriculture? We don't have to travel any further than Denmark to figure it out. There the average pawn has a debt of 22 million. kr. A steady number of Danish farmers are going bankrupt. Many of the garages are now owned by a limited liability company. We are dealing with the national budget today, and there are two major trends: oil money consumption that has run wild, and a galloping debt. When the homes of people and the natural resources in the country are indebted in this way, it is anything but responsible. It shifts power away from people, fishermen and farmers and over to a small elite with access to capital. What Norway needs is a transition from speculation to production, a policy for value creation, not for stock exchange listing. It will be a responsible policy for people and nature in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4221	I'm on the program "When we ruled the country", and what I like best is the clips that take us back in time, to the 1980s, 1990s and 2000s. The oil fields were bigger than ever, the Norwegian economy went from crisis to growth, we sealed the ozone hole, Norway hit Brazil in football, and we who grew up in those years took it for granted that the arrows could only point one way up – and that we should get better than our parents. Now, in 2017, at the beginning of 2018, the future is not so pink. Economic and social differences are increasing in and between countries, climate change is on the move, and we note the expensive and unfair consequences on the body. The largest refugee disaster since World War II continues, although Norway and Europe have largely closed their borders. So what answer does the government then have when we go into this new period of the Storting? So when I have been listening to the debate today, there are so few visions, so few answers from the government. Everything we get is self-scrupulous and more of the same medicine. There are few reflections on the challenges we face. What we've heard is a recognition from the government that they're actually doing what we in SV say they're doing: they're lowering the taxes for the richest and they have to admit, if they're thinking about, that SV is better at tax laws for ordinary people. Let me underline it: the SV's alternative budget is a budget for new, large welfare reforms, for climate action like monks, for less money use than the government, and a budget where people most get into plus – because we have chosen to prioritize it. And at a time when individualism and competition tend to be over the community, at a time when we have a government that sets up more and more welfare schemes to become individual instead of universal, and at a time when whips are used to motivate those who have the least, while those who have the most get more, it's easy to feel that it's your fault if you don't succeed: you haven't taken a good enough education, you should have started saving for housing or retirement before, you should have got a better paid job. But we know that there are major and systematic reasons why the inequality is now growing. It's no natural disaster when the rich leave. That nearly 100,000 young people grow up in poverty has not happened as lightning from the clear sky. I have to conclude, unfortunately, that today there will be a budget for increasing differences and state of mind in climate policy – not by a major Progress Party and the Right, because despite what we have heard through the debate today, they are weakened after the elections, but they are saved by the Christian People's Party and the Left, who have been paid dearly in terms of some small and unsocial cuts that affect many.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4240	We in the Center Party are happy with traditions. We also like traditions before Christmas, but there are some new traditions that have emerged in recent years, which are very wonderful. These include:: What fee bomb comes this year? It's always a little exciting, a little daunting when the budgetary agreement between the four parties is going to come up: what does appear now? This year it was the country's largest mainland industry to be taken. The industry that has invested a lot, that has invested, the food industry, is to be taken. There will be a fee increase of 83 pst. overnight. It's completely irresponsible. It is amazing that no one from the government parties has made a statement on proper industrial policy during today's debate. When we see that we've been through a phase in which oil investments have gone from above 230 billion. kr to 150 br. NOK, when we have had a period in which the krone price has been record low, where the interest rates have been very high, where we have had surplus labour, we have not had a growth in Norwegian industrial investment. The new growth has come into existence – it is over 200 billion. kr. We in Norway cannot live in wealth, we must have a value creation, and in a real value creation we must have an industrial development. That is why it is so daunting, the charging policy that the Progress Party and the Right have been at the forefront of the fact that there are only arbitrary charges that affect Norwegian industry and Norwegian value creation. I really understand that no one from the Right Party or the Advance Party has been up and defended this violent tax regime that they are now at the forefront of, because it is not possible to defend. It has no health effect because that fee is so oddly arranged that it hits completely arbitrarily. But it has one effect, and it's moving jobs from Norway to Sweden, moving value creation from Norway to Sweden, moving trade from Norway to Sweden. The commercial industry employs more than 300,000 people. Combined with the 350-kroner limit that today’s government has also implemented, it is completely, completely, incomprehensible. Norway had needed a government and a large majority who were concerned with creating values in Norway — value creation and long value chains in our country. There is a need – not the kind of short-term budgetary settlement that appears before Christmas, which affects Norwegian value creation, which affects Norwegian jobs. You can allow that if the country has very good advice, but if it continues this way, we'll waste the resources. Then there's another tradition that's come every year with today's four parties. It is that the commuters are to be taken – those that are a lot away from the family are to be taken. The jam showed me in the budget agreement 465 million. to which could be taken from those who are a lot away from the family. Why is it that when the Party of Advancement and the Right has gained power, it is that group of society, the one with the greatest burdens in its working life, which is taxed most? Why is it that those living in wreckage are the great tax collectors of the year? That's because we have the wrong government with the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4254	Before taking the floor, the representative, Mr Lysbakken, will inform the President that the regulatory time for the Storting meeting will soon be over. The President proposes that the meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4259	It is true that there has been a different financial debate. This may be illustrated by the fact that the fiscal figures and the parliamentary leaders of the government parties have not even signed up to the final round. I don't know if they're all present at all in the hall. There has been a debate where it does not seem that pride in the budget is so enormous, but where the government parties are above all high on themselves, obviously because they are going to continue to rule. It's sad not to have a bigger vision than that. In addition, there is little reason for celebration, as this harvest has shown, for there is a new majority in the Grand Duchy, which adopts policies across the will of the government parties, linked to parental leave, linked to single minor asylum seekers. Now the government parties have also had to swallow a large camel in the budget negotiations, linked to the teaching standard. It's also a natural development after a choice where all the progress was on the red-green side. This is a budget that will help to reinforce the two most negative developments we see in our society right now: the increasing inequality in power and wealth and the paralysis of action in the face of climate change. In this debate we have once again seen that there is a striking lack of interest in the major climate issue of the Right and the Progressive Party. We have once again seen a total lack of answers as to why billions of billions are spent on tax bills without ordinary people noticing anything, while at the top they will get and get, each and every time. It becomes so obvious that there are not most people you're for, but the economic elite and those who have the most in Norwegian society. Nor have we received any answer as to why it is that while rich people provide more of being richer, poor people are expected to provide more if they just get a little poorer. The series of unsocial cuts in which the Christian People's Party gets the job of cleaning up is long in every budget debate. This is a budget for the few, not for the many. They are few, those who have large equity assets, or those who can invest in commercial child protection, who now receive large gift packages through government policy. On the other hand, they are many, those who had had an interest in another economic policy, in a fairer tax system, in increasing income for the poorest families, in getting profit out of well-being or in a responsible climate policy. An economic policy for the many, and not for the few, is about putting the burden on the broadest shoulders for a more difficult time, but this government is doing the opposite. That is why it is good that we have a new political situation with a new majority in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4272	I noticed that the representative Trond Giske says that it is a dangerous attitude to say that things are going well in Norway. Hey!, did I just think – is that a dangerous attitude? Instead, should I have said that it is going neutral in Norway, that it is going well in Norway, or should I have said that it is going bad in Norway or that it is going really bad in Norway? There were perhaps some of these words the Labour Party tried to say during the election campaign. Should I also try to imagine the Norwegian people that things are going badly? First of all, it would have been wrong. In fact, Norway is doing quite well. No one has ever felt better than us in our own time or in the past. And Norway is allowed to live in the world’s best country year after year. Now we're also the happiest country, I've read. Then I think that the Vice-Chairman of the largest party in the country just has to find out and bear to hear that it is actually going quite well in Norway. However, the fact that Norway is doing well does not mean that we do not have political projects to make improvements. I think that if we first stood here and framed all the projects that it says in this budget, for which we burn, we could stand here at least until tomorrow. I raised one of these projects instead, and I can raise another one to please the representative Trond Giske. I think it was very polite, together with Trine Skei Grande, to take the initiative to give money to something that we would like to create, a network -- basically a network of minority women who have been calling for the negative social control. I had meetings with some chosen girls: Shabana Rehman, Iram Haq, Amal Aden – we all know them, and not least the authors of the book The Shamless: Nancy Herz, Amina Bile and Sofia Nesrine Srour. All of these have fought – I'm not going to say all of their lives, but most of their lives – in each of their fields and their fields to just get rid of the negative social control. Then I thought, "Why don't we put these together in a network where they can be organized and push this fight forward to combat honour culture, to promote equality?" We took the initiative. We've prioritised five million. kr to this in our alternative budget. Together with the government parties, after long negotiations, we agreed that this was a right sum to grant. These girls have joined together and founded the Food Free. The foundation has got that name, and they now get 5 million. Next year, to go in and fight against negative social control and promote gender equality among minority women. It's a little bit of money, but anyway, it's a big project. If we are able to do something about gender equality among minority women, it will clearly affect the whole of Norway — the children born in these families, and not least the women. This is a good project. And if the Vice President of the Workers' Party is not able to see that this is a good project for the country of Norway, I am a little uncertain about what is going on to please Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4283	I heard some colleagues from the opposition parties here in Stortinget say that there has been a different debate. Well, I think something's been the same old, especially when you listen to the Center Party. Today we have heard several representatives from that party drawing a picture of a municipality-Norway that is starving feed, where things go badly and everything gets centralised. But I remember a campaign in which several fact-findings struck down thoroughly on the misery descriptions of the Center Party. The NRK checked the Center Party's battle case number. one in the election campaign, that the Solberg government is the most centralizing government in the history of Norway. The Centre Party drew up local hospitals, Nav offices, municipal reform, Länsmannskontoret and reduced the number of farms. The result of the fact check was clear and clear: it was wrong. Another fact-finding concluded that the following was absolutely true: We have to go back to the last millennium to find a better result for Norwegian municipalities than we got in 2016. A third case, in the Evening Post in September, could show that the number of municipalities on the ROBEK list is the lowest since the ROBEK list was established in 2001. Then it might not have been so strange that the representative Schlagsvold Vedum stood up in the class struggle and was not entirely satisfied with this fact-finding trend that struck inward Norway. He criticised this trend and felt that fact-finding was prejudicial to the political debate, that it was spicy. I would say that the facts in a debate enrich it, they illuminate it, even though the Senter Party does not like them. I think it would be up to the representative of the Battle of Vedum and his party colleagues to care a little more about the facts, especially in a debate on the country's budget. They'll have one last chance, then. They probably have some posts left to get up here and maybe tell us what's really going on with the country, because our reports, fact checks and our travels show that it's very good in Municipality-Norway, although the representative still has some energy left from the election campaign and hasn't laid off all the election brochures yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4296	Now I've had the pleasure of following this twelve-hour debate, and I think I've got most of the speeches, but I have to say that it's not a particularly surprising debate – it's quite predictable in the sense that the opposition is working to criticize the majority that has agreed on. But to say that this should have been a debate on the big visions, I actually disagree. This is a debate on what the government budget for next year will look like and the consequences of the decisions this House is making tonight. Then it's an honest thing to disagree with the priorities that the four cooperation parties have come up with. But politics works. We are now in a situation where unemployment falls, employment rises, growth in the economy rises, and optimism is visible throughout the country and in the vast majority of industries. So you're doing better. It's not just random. It has to do with the framework conditions that the four parties have agreed on over several years, and that we continue and strengthen next year. It's about framework conditions. It is, of course, about having competitive taxes and taxes. It is about continuing to invest in infrastructure and reducing the maintenance run. It's about investing in knowledge, it's about investing in research, and it's essentially what the government budget for next year is all about. But there have been basically three main elements in this debate. One has disagreed on individual taxes and individual taxes, and that is quite fine in itself, but the overall aim of the opposition is to increase the overall level of taxation and taxation, while the four cooperating parties continue to reduce tax pressure in Norway. It's a perfectly honest thing to think that one of the easiest things to do is to stick your hand into people's pockets and raise taxes to finance expenditure increases. It's a lot harder to prioritize. And it has been the second debate – so-called lack of reform. This government and the cooperation parties have implemented and will carry out further reforms in the future. I am still happy to capture what major reform visions the opposition has, where the opposition has intended to prioritise clearer in the coming time. That's good for me to catch up with. Then there's been a debate that's been about a little bit more to everything and everyone. It's easy when you stick suction pipes into other people's pockets, but it's all about making sure that the growth of the economy is going to take up, that more people are going to get into work, and then we need good framework conditions. In fact, we need to continue with more of the policies that we have shown work and that have now brought optimism back into the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4307	After twelve hours, we are approaching the summary of this debate. The main points have been that soup and shower are going to be a little bit more expensive, that some organizations have got a cut that the Christian People's Party and the Left have fixed up, and otherwise a general competition for who has given the most tax relief to the people most. The new thing in the debate is maybe that Red has come up with a little analysis that I found very interesting, that every time we have a red-green government, there's a pause between civil governments. I think we can say that we don't need a break anymore, we can continue with the government we have. Then the representative Schlagsvold Vedum has been up here talking about traditions. At least we can say that there is a new tradition. It's that the Center Party is now at any time against everything we're for. The story of the chocolate and sugar confectionery fees is that the Central Party asked the Minister of Finance first about the fee, and the Christian People's Party was inspired by that question and suggested it. The labor party hung on, and that's why we're here today. There is a multiple for that fee. If you go in and search for the person who has taken the word in this room most times about this fee, it is the Center Party and Kjersti Toppe who are the one who has talked about it most, always in positive order that this is important for the people, and that we must continue to escalate this fee. It's the new tradition. The representative Trond Giske talked a lot about oil money usage. He doesn't mean he stands for almost the same oil money usage as the government, and he wants reforms. When we look at the previous period, there was reform after reform that the Labour Party stood on the outside, that they had different attitudes to, and that even they wanted to reverse. All in two days, we're going to have a new debate in this room, where the focus is reversal, based on initiatives from, among other things. The Labour Party, so when they call for reforms, can at least start to support the reforms that bring the country into a better situation. The only new thing is that now one was released because of a decision on the pension reform. It was just to free billions from the state. I think all the pensioners notice his words in the introduction to the debate. In the end, I noticed that the Centre Party spent quite some time in the line change on long-distance transport and diets. Although it belongs to the tax debate we will have later, I can inform you that in the proposition we will then deal with, it says that for the rest of the world the rate is NOK 300, and I have been informed that the Tax Directorate, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, will set the same rate domestically, so that the long hauliers get out of the process that has been and will not be affected by a reduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4322	It is well time to thank you for the debate. It's been a long and rich day, you could say. What I have missed are new perspectives from the opposition on how to solve and meet tomorrow's challenges, other than spending more money for almost any good purpose. In the future, I think it will be significantly more important to give priority to different good purposes. The action space is going to be smaller, and that means that even if a purpose is good, it's not necessarily that we should and can prioritize it. It's going to be a difficult transition for many, but it's a new reality that we have to learn to live with. What I also miss is an answer to how to modernise and streamline the public sector, how to create values, so that we have something to distribute. This is perhaps the main point of appeal in this debate that it seems that the recognition that values must be created before they can be distributed is approximately absent from parts of the opposition – I would say in large sections of the opposition. It's a sign of concern, because the well-being we have is actually based on the creation of values in this country, and people having a job to go to. Then we can't tax the jobs out of the country. We have to make sure that they stay here, that they grow here, and that there are more of them. The conclusion is that we need to create more – not taxes anymore – and we need to embrace change, whether in the public sector or in the private sector, because the alternative to change is confusion. The world around us doesn't stand still, and that means we have to move in line with the changes around us. The representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, called for industrial policy. It falls in many ways on his own unreasonableness with an attack by Battle Violence Vedum at this very point when he opposes the removal of the machine tax for which the government is in favour. It was a time when the Senter party was taxed on working capital, and if anything, machine taxes must be – with surgical precision – a tax on working capital. But the center part is the other way around. Then, of course, alternative budgets are in many ways also the time to evaluate election promises. What I really attached myself to today was that the representative Gahr Støre was up and talking about road in the line change with Trond Helleland, because then he actually canceled the promises made by the Workers' Party when it came to the National Transport Plan, which we dealt with in this Chamber in June. It was very interesting, and something not least the representatives of the districts should notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4335	The representative, Kapur, had a greeting to the Central Party on centralization. In particular, the Progress Party does not look more closely at the basic facts of what is happening in the society around centralisation, looks at where population growth takes place, where private entrepreneurs invest their capital, and where private people invest in new homes. If you look at the simple facts, you see that the private invests where it pays the best, and it's in the middle of nowhere. It has an effect that is enormous over time. When we're in a situation there at a distance of just 6 miles is the value of an equivalent dwelling as one to two, one sees what we're talking about here. Most people experience the consequences of centralization, experience that when the state withdraws, when the government withdraws from an area, the value of the real objects that one has. As a result, many maritime and private traders are opposed to centralisation because it is in direct contradiction with their own interests. With regard to the modernisation of the public sector, it is a prerequisite for making it cheaper and better available. Police reform is an outstanding example, and the whole reform will end up with far greater costs and a worse result. We're just going to see how we have to finance the police reform, because the central units of the police have provided the cake in such a large amount that there's not enough resources for what's going to be prepared and civilian tasks all over Norway. Such reforms are not a modernisation of the public sector. It is the destruction of the public sector, in the sense that it works worse. Otherwise, I am interested to note that Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, conceals the situation when she says that Norway is now better rusted, and that the most difficult period is behind us. No, the international turmoil is so great, the uncertainty is increasing, and investments in the continental economy are miserable. The example might be woodworking. Two large farms are now in an uncertain situation, the Saugbruksföreningen in Halden and the paper factory in Skogn. There is no strategic enterprise policy to modernise this sector, as the Central Party has proposed through a green investment company. There must be more discussion of industrial policy. There has not been a debate on this today that is consistent with what we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4346	It is often claimed that the government does not have a targeted industrial policy, but it must definitely be said that the four budget-mates have a targeted industrial policy, for each fall is the only industry that is the victim of the ageing process. It's a totally unacceptable way of managing business policy, and it's all but admirable. Part of the food industry got an bill of 2 billion. kr, totally unexpected, no foundation, but for the budget to go into piles. It's a bad business policy. I have to say that I react strongly when the representative Njåstad is up here and try to blame this on the Center Party, because we asked a question about it. The center party acquires knowledge, and then we make assessments, and the economic sense is that this is a bad idea, and we don't. Now we see that the Christian People's Party is on the waving front and begins to doubt the arrangements for the fee. Yes, that device was ready for a long time. It has a certain length of time. However, one chose to do so, and it shows a lack of prioritisation. Another area is that Stortinget has treated a travel life message. There was no way of what it was like to bet on travel life, an important district industry. It should be easier in the valuation of property taxes. It has not been provided by the government, but what they have managed to deliver is probably a VAT increase for Norwegian travel life, which weakens the competitiveness of Norwegian travel life against Sweden. Then you talk about persuasiveness. It isn't. It's a bad business policy. It's a bad business policy. I think they who are in government should have seen their feet down when this kind of proposal came in. But I fear that every year in the future we will experience these kinds of things, bad excuses, and that no one will take responsibility for what is being done. It's a business policy that we can't be aware of. I mean, the most important thing we can do for business is to ensure foresight at large. The tax settlement was a good step in the right direction, but then all of this came and destroyed. My advice is: here you have to think about, here you have to see if there was a good idea about this chocolate and sugar levy. One thing is certain: It is not the fault of the Center Party that this fee is being imposed. It is the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and it is those who must be responsible for the jobs that are being postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4355	It's been a long day. I would like to congratulate the Minister of Finance on having endured for 12 hours and listened to all the contributions, but that may have been useful. It's been about the budget, but as the representative Geske said, it sounds like everything's going well, you get blinded by it, and Abid Q. Raja believes that the swimming lessons are coming, and there's been five million. NOK to a group he has joined in the appointment, so everything is fine. The point is, on such a day, to look forward, to warn against the danger it might be that once everything goes well, you don't see what can come around the next turn. I had hoped that there would be a link between the first budget in a new government period for this government and some of the last it did in the last period, that is, the perspective message, when it drew up major challenges Norway is facing and we are looking for answers. I believe that it is missing – that is where the visions are missing. How will this policy address the major tasks we face on the job front? There is talk of creating the same number of jobs as in the entire marine food industry every year in the years to come, in order to keep up and create new jobs. Does this budget have a message about it? In the government's debate, has it been announced how we are going to create all those jobs? Economic policy has barely been mentioned in this debate, hardly been raised by the government representatives and the supporting parties. The sea bet, as there has been a lot of talk about, has hardly been mentioned. Non-response – those outside: now there are 100,000 of our young people. It was a big deal in 2013 for the Right and Advance Party – not mentioned today. The Hospital Budget: The representative Toppe reviewed the situation around the country, a good description of a hospital sector that will not be able to make the promises it will make in terms of technology, medicine and equipment. And climate: Is this budget really a message of climate? No, it's not a promise, no vision of how we're going to achieve our goals in the years that we're left until 2030. And then it's symptomatic, what we hear from the members of the government – and especially from the Prime Minister: glittering examples of being problem writers, but not problem solvers. I addressed with the Prime Minister today what Lysne, the leading representative who has analysed Norway's digital security, calls a huge problem: that we lack people with ICT skills to ensure Norway's security. The Prime Minister then says that yes, it is a huge problem, but the problem is that there are not enough doctoral degrees – it is not ICT training. But what did we learn from that? - Nothing. And we don't have a government to deal with these big problems. Now we've discussed the land force and the long-term plan of defense, and then we have this large area called cyber security, cryptocompetence. Do we address these issues and really solve the problems? Well, the Prime Minister acknowledges the problem, but has no solutions to it in this budget and here in the debate, and I think that is a strong call for the new majority that can be created in the Storting for the various issues, and gives new opportunities to try to fix some of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4368	I accept that the Minister of Finance has been sitting for a long time and does not want to discuss visions right now. But I expect that even if she rejects the fact that the budget is about vision, she agrees that a budget must respond to what is believed to be the major challenges for Norway. I also expect what we have heard in this debate, and what we can see in the budget, summarised is what the government parties think is the major challenges for Norway. Then we can conclude that, for example: is to ensure that people with equity assets get even more money, it is to ensure more private consumption of those who have the most already, and it is to ensure even more market for our well-being, while, for example, it is. Obviously not – if we are to take the total silence from the Right and the Advance Party in this debate seriously – is to solve the fundamental climate issue, or the increasing inequality in power and wealth that we see destroying so many other Western societies, and that we see grow in Norway, but those who rule the country are not at all concerned about. So the Chairman of the Financial Committee, the representative of Astrup, signed up. I'm glad. When he talks about prioritizing, I listen, because it's a party that can really prioritise, it's the Right. We get long instructions on how everyone else needs to prioritize, tighten up and prepare for tougher times, but there is one group in this society that never applies. There is a group of Right has unlimited money for, and that is the upper class in this country. They can always get more money – there are no limits to how many billions of Right can spend on tax cuts for those who already have the most. So we know how to put the right priority. We have a different priority. We give priority to a policy for the many, not for the few. That's what's the difference. It's not like someone prioritizes and others leave off, it's like we're different priorities, because we're occupied by different groups in this society. Then the Minister of Finance is driving people away when she describes tax policy as if it were the red-green opposition proposing higher taxes to most people. I'm not sure I think it's the picture with the suction pipe into people's pockets, but we're going to accept it. Then there's a question about who your pockets you've sucked into. This government has sucked into the pockets of a number of groups that have received less from the Right and the Advance Party: disabled carers, people with housing support, single parents, the unemployed, people who lose their jobs and get termination benefits, burned down, traffic victims who have increased their share of physical therapy. Then, I guess the difference is that instead we want to pick up from our pockets to those that actually have the most, because in harder times, the greatest burdens have to be borne by those who have the widest shoulders. The truth is that in our budget there is less tax and more to the typical employee with less than NOK 600 000 in income than in the budget that Siv Jensen has promoted. That's why she has to stop talking like an increase in the tax level of society means an increase in the tax level of most people, because that's not true. What's true is that this government has prioritised them on top.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4390	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4395	It is wonderful to listen to Helge André Njåstad, who has been given the confidence to be the leader of the Progress Party in the Financial Committee. When he talks about the tax check we have experienced now, he talks about a bit of candy and candy. I wonder if Helge André Njåstad has had contact with the NHO at all, and heard what they think about the charging policy that the Progress Party is now conducting, whether he has had contact with the LO and wondered what they think, whether he has had contact with Orkla and wondered what they mean, or with Freia – or whether he has taken the trip down and met the people who are actually affected by the policy, who are concerned about his job, whether he has met with the trade industry, who sees this as a targeted attack on their jobs. Because this isn't a game, it's serious. When we have a majority that comes with that kind of fee increase – over 83 pst. – overnight, it endangers workplaces. So my appeal to the Progress Party and Njåstad is: Meet those who are affected by the policy, and be a little more humble next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4400	I think a lot of people have summed up the debate well. I am probably among those who are also surprised that the debate is not going to get even. This is actually a rather calm and sensible debate. This may show that the budget is quite good. But when the Center Party starts up, I can't hold on. And when the representative Schlagsvold Vedum asks if the Progress Party has had contact with the various, I wonder if the party leader has been in contact with the health-policy spokeswoman Kjersti Toppe. I'm going to quote one of the posts of the representative Toppe, which I really think is pretty good. It is from a budget debate in which the red-greens presented their last budget: ‘We also need to take this step forward in order to implement the dietary policy. This is where we need to focus on children and young people. For children and young people, shower, juice and candy contribute to almost half the total sugar intake. This budget introduces an additional levy on sugar, chocolate, snacks and non-alcoholic beverages with added sugar and artificial sweeteners. There are health grounds for this, but there is a paradox and no obvious reason why we should still have reduced VAT on cheese and other artificially produced confectionery.» I have to admit that I think it is very special to follow the centre party in these debates, because it is a party that has been concerned with – affordable – seeing that it is especially that shower and candy actually have tax relief through reduced VAT. But when the proposal comes, and policies are adopted, then suddenly this matter is dramatic. Yes, we all agree that this is challenging for the industry. Yes, we're busy smuggling, etc. But this is about health policy. There are demarcation problems, we can look at that more closely, but it's been the whole time, even when the Senter Party boasted that they increased the fees in its time. And when you look through the budgets over the last few years, the fee has been increased regularly, without the Senter Party having chosen to go in and do something about the demarcation problem. Then I think it is going to be hugely hollow to hear that kind of criticism in this case. For the Christian People's Party, we promoted the proposal. We were inspired by various questions, and I ask myself the question: which party is it that asks a budgetary question without having any idea of perhaps doing anything about that particular charge? We were inspired by it. We have it in the program. We've been talking about that for a long time. We have had repeated proposals to increase VAT from 15 pst. until 25 pst. In the negotiations we ended up raising the same amount through the fee. We do it because it's health. As Kjersti Toppe was inside in his post: It's not marzipan sausage young people buying when they're in the store, it's candy, it's candy, it's shower. At least there we give a strong signal that we want a twist. So I don't think this is a saving proposal, it's a health proposal that we're in. If we don't draw it as far as you would like, it's at least more in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4420	The president's wondering who's really buying marzipan sausage. [[laughs in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4425	I would like to thank you for a good debate and thank the four parties that have once again tabled a proposal for a government budget that will be adopted. There are a few traditions that have come in addition to those that the Center Party mentioned instead, and the one tradition, which is beginning to get stuck here in the house, is that when the government parties go in for something – and in a settlement goes in for something that the Center Party has previously been in for – the Center Party is going against. We all remember last year, when there was a moderate increase in fuel charges, and the Senter party was heading towards. So they would have gone into every state budget for the three years before. The centre party meets itself at the door again and again – now it is the sugar charge – and then they ask us: If you have been in contact with the NHO, you have been in contact with LO – you have been in contact with Orkla, said Trygve, and then the cats left the bag. Orcs are important, but we've been in contact with the NHO, which would remove the machine tax. Then the Senterpartiet stood at the barricades to keep it because Norwegian municipalities were against it. The center part is equal to itself, and that's a good thing, but they haven't been able to show a consistent line. They jump from one position to another to plague the government and plague the majority parties. They have to be allowed to do that, it's given good results so far, but I think they'll be revealed. Another political news today is related to the last round we had in Stortinget in ours, when we had a long round of national transport plan, where the Workers' Party had suddenly become the road party. They were going to speed up 27 road projects that cost 50 billion. NOK, and they would spend $7 billion on that. kr per. And so party leader Jonas Gahr is going up here today and saying, no, we couldn't give priority to road, we had to give priority to public transport this year. Yes, but if they were to speed up, they would have to start this year, they would have to start in next year's budget. The center party says they're a district party. At least the working party is now doing its best to refute it – they are removing all increases to road projects in District Norway and transferring it to the big cities. I think that is a pretty clear indication from the Workers' Party that the miserable result they got in District Norway in this election, they intend to follow up on it. We're betting on education. We have invested in, fully developed, 4,000 new ICT study places in this budget. It was called by Gahr Støre. We've been investing in ICT. We're betting on tax relief that makes business more competitive. This is what we do to create a sustainable welfare society, to reduce differences, to provide people with a good health supply and to provide them with a good hospital offer. This government, together with its cooperation parties, has once again provided a good budget. The opposition goes forward in all directions and cracks.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4436	Representative Abid Q. Raja has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4441	I didn't really intend to draw, but when the representative Gahr Støre almost hesitated that I had advanced kindergarten training and got 5 million. kr to shameless girls, as if there were not important enough things in his eyes to be lifted up, I must almost get answers, for there are also important things. Although they may be small in the eyes of the Labour Party, they are also moving things forward in Norway. I think we should hold on to the fact that Norway is doing very well. Most things actually go very well. But that doesn't mean that we're not going to have projects to pull the country in a newer direction, a different direction, a better direction. One of the bigger issues, which will perhaps delight Gahr Støre something more, is the text we've got in relation to Myanmar. We agree with the government parties that we should ‘ensure that an adequate level of assistance to Myanmar goes to humanitarian measures for displaced rowingyaer’. Now I don't have time to draw the whole story of the rowingya. I also kept an interview about that, so if Gahr Støre is interested in it, he can read the record from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4452	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4457	When one has to resort to questionable claims to doubt the central party's industrial policy, I have to comment on it. In the years we put in government, we adjusted the sugar charge. We have done nothing but that in our alternative budget either. What industry is experiencing now is an increase of 83 pst. When we joined the government, no fare was imposed. It came when the four budget-mates would have the budget to go together. The representative of Greece is talking about a moderate increase in fuel taxes – no, it was not. In one year, this increased more than the red-green had done in eight years. There is no doubt that the majority we now have will have to pay taxes when they are going to get the budget to hang together. It's not that much if you just want to get the money in the box. It separates the Centre Party from the four budgetary parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4462	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4468	I didn't take the word to quote the most quoted politician today, Kjersti Toppe, or to talk about the sugar levy, because even if we've gone against it, we're probably in SV after all concerned about other things. I hear that the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left are trying to conclude that, after all, we are quite in agreement, but then they may not have heard well enough after the debate. Today, the Swedish representatives have talked about how to reduce differences in Norway through increased child welfare, a safe working life, the next major welfare reform, the full-day school and a fair housing market, and I note that the government parties do not respond to these proposals at all. Nor do they respond to an increase in differences in Norway. They do not respond to how this government manages to cut greenhouse gas emissions – no response to the existing threat. So, yes, we are probably quite dissenting about the policy in this budget and what direction Norway should go in.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4473	There is no way of getting the attention of a budgetary question raised by the Central Party during the budgetary procedure. If all the budgetary questions that were asked had received equal attention, I don't think we'd been sitting here just one day, then I think we'd been sitting here for a whole week. The centre batch is subject to predictability. We go through and look at the answers we get to questions, evaluate the consequences, and then we make our decisions based on them. We want predictability, but we also want changes to be made, that there should be positive changes, such as: reduced sugar consumption, which the industry has taken responsibility for. If there is an industry that has really taken hold, which has really set the agenda and, in cooperation with the government, provided for a reduction in sugar intake, it is precisely the industry that overnight – without any kind of dialogue and without any kind of information – gets a huge tax return right on its face. It's an unwise way to conduct politics. It is a poor industrial policy, and it is not a good public health policy either. And what's the same majority doing at the same time? Yes, the limit of NOK 350 for duty-free imports from abroad leaves them standing, and there is no limit that applies only once. In practice, the same goods can be traded free of charge from abroad. Where is the logic of that? There's no other logic in it than that this is about a drawer of jobs out of the country. There is a bad business policy, and there is also a bad public health policy. So to the representative of Helleland, who was in charge of the machine tax. Once again, when you want to make big changes, yes, you have to have a proper and thoughtful policy, walk the path of a legislative selection, and do not take the changes directly. It has great consequences for the municipalities, and it has great consequences for those affected. Then you have to take the necessary time, sit down and look at the consequences and what happens when you remove the tax. The municipalities have to finance their operations, and what can happen very quickly in many of the municipalities where the machine tax is now being removed is that there will be an increase in taxes on housing and increased taxes on other traders. When Statoil, Hydro and other major players, as well as foreign companies, receive tax relief, local taxes on those who remain will be increased. It is not a good industrial policy and it does not contribute to predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4482	I drew myself basically to respond to SV's various posts, but first let me give the representative Gülsvik a little visit. What the centre lot actually goes through is a legal selection to look at how to keep the machine tax, but to change the device on it. What we're doing is removing it -- because it's arbitrary and it's going to be arbitrary no matter how the device changes as the machines change. It is important for industry and for Norwegian jobs that we remove it. The municipalities are compensated, and therefore the problem should be solved, from that perspective. So to the representative Lysbakken, who criticises our tax reliefs. Well, let me say to it: this isn't about giving tax relief to the rich, this is about people having a job to go to. That's what this is all about. So that's where we separate layers. The slope of light seems to believe that the state is a kind of Sarepta pot, which can be emptied and distributed for various good purposes regardless of the value creation of society, while we recognize that these values must be created first. It's also about people having a job to go to. At this point, both Lightbakken and Kaski mentioned climate policy: Let me remind you that we have entered into an obligation to cut emissions by 40 pst. by 2030 in cooperation with the EU. We're on our way. The emissions are now going down. It took time to turn the ship after eight red-green years, but we are now world leaders in the electrification of the transport sector, and we are world leaders in renewable energy. We may have the world's best technology support schemes for green industry and green business, and we are world leaders in green shipping. We're using over 3 billion. kr a year to preserve the rainforest, to mention something. What is this really saying? Well, it tells us that our policy is working. Yes, much of that is common political goods, and that's good. This is a big, common challenge that we're going to solve. It requires conversion. Then there's one thing that's certain, and that's that also green business needs good framework conditions to succeed. Green industry too will suffer under the Swedish tax policy. If there is something we need – more and more legs to stand on – then there are just sustainable jobs for the future. It would be very bad if SV's tax policy were to chase those jobs out of the country as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4493	The representative Sivert Bjørnstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4500	The representative Kaski of SV asked the government parties a specific question, and of course she should get an answer to that – at least from one point, for my part. The question was what we think about SV's next major welfare reform, the whole day school. The answer to that is that we are against it, because it is an expensive and bad reform that leads far from necessarily to more learning among our students. There we have far more accurate measures to put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4505	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4512	The representative, Astrup, pointed out that the machine tax is arbitrary and that one should therefore remove the entire tax. Well, the fact that a tax is not accurate in all areas is precisely the basis for going through and looking at how it can be better aligned. Because it's not like you're canceling it that you have arbitrariness with that device either, so now there's still a problem with demarcation. The only thing that's settled with what's laid down is that it's the state that serves through its ownership. Foreign owned companies will also serve, while affected municipalities that have provided resources will lose. And when I first have to deal with any limitation issues related to taxes and charges: even in another area that we have been talking about, chocolate and sugar fees, there is definitely a question of arbitrary limitations and problems with regard to the fee. There's one not removing this, no, that's increasing it by 83 pst. The argument of the majority is not related.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4519	In short to the representative Astrup: politics is about results, not good wishes. It's all right that the taxes from the Right are not about making the rich rich richer, but that's the result. And even this year, the Ministry of Finance has failed to prove that fiscal policy leads to these dynamic, fantastic effects that are meant to increase value creation and more jobs. The same is true of climate policy: it is nice to have objectives, it is nice to have an agreement with the EU, but not this year either we have figures showing that the majority is pursuing a climate policy that works and reduces emissions. So it's going to be exciting to see when we meet next year, in similar debate. I am willing to know quite a lot that the numbers we get from Siv Jensen, also at that time, are still going to show that the tax havens do nothing but make the rich richer, and that the outsourcing of Norwegian climate policy to Brussels does nothing but disclaimer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4528	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4540	The size is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4549	The President will propose that the Minister of Finance’s statement on the government’s draft government budget on the national budget for 2018 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4559	The representative Trond Giske has asked for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4564	The Committee configuration consists essentially of two parts. It is the framework proposal itself, and then there are a number of individual proposals which are, to a large extent, independent of the framework, but which are nevertheless linked to the reconciliation between the governmental parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left. I believe in itself that there is a broad consensus on many of them in this Chamber, but we think it is the cleanest thing to vote for our proposal for a framework. Many of the things contained in the individual proposals are included in our budget, and therefore we are voting against these proposals. That doesn't necessarily mean you're opposed to the content of each of them, but we see it as two alternative budget lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4569	A total of 26 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, from Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, by Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 3 and 4, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Ola Elvesuen on behalf of Left the proposals No 6-24, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA the proposals No 25 and 26, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red The President will draw attention to the fact that in XLII on page 323 of the configuration, there is a typographical error. It's got to be a race. 1360, not cap. 360. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-five, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: « Framework Decision No. Name Krona Add User-ID Succeeded Government, etc. 9 920 361,000 2 Family and consumer 49 993 424,000 3 Culture, etc. 14 603 813,000 4 Foreign 37,447,121,000 5 Justis 33 837 807,000 6 Immigration, regional development and housing 24 193 673 000 7 Employment and social affairs 447 255 501,000 8 Defence 39 186 610,000 9 Industry 6,328,239 000 10 Fishing 511 470,000 11 Agriculture 17 668 013,000 12 Oil and Energy -70 157 264 000 13 Environment 10,289,071,000 14 Control and constituency 652 200000 15 Health 200 109 069 000 16 Education and research 74 268 082,000 17 Transport and communication 65 102 740,000 18 Framework transfers to the local government sector etc. 189 320 138 000 19 Random expenditure and revenue 6,388 600 000 20 The size, financial management, etc. 32,725,627,000 21 Taxes, duties and customs duties 1 086 939 633 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Dividends, etc. -32 586 451,000 Total before loan transactions and transfers to and from State pension funds abroad 70 118 211,000 ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4865	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4870	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4875	Then there are 92 representatives who have voted against the Red proposal and one representative who has voted in favour. There is a vote on proposal No. 26, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess the consequences of the increased charge on chocolate and sugar products, etc. before tax decisions for the financial year 2019, with a view to amending them from 2019 onwards. The investigation shall include the consequences of the increase in fees for the Norwegian food and beverage industry, for duty-free imports of this type of product and for border trade.» [[purchasing less than SEK 350]] The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e4894	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6, 7, 9, 13 and 16, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 6 sounds: « Framework Decision No. Name Krona Add User-ID Succeeded Government, etc. 9,830,361,000 2 Family and consumer 48 579 624 000 3 Culture, etc. 15 243 413,000 4 Foreign 37 677 785,000 5 Justis 34 145 158,000 6 Immigration, regional development and housing 26 364 331,000 7 Employment and social affairs 442 838 834 000 8 Defence 49 324 304 000 9 Industry 8,226,389,000 10 Fishing 1,179,870,000 11 Agriculture 18 819 676 000 12 Oil and Energy -72 857 514 000 13 Environment 13 047 996 000 14 Control and constituency 652 200000 15 Health 198,327,296 000 16 Education and research 75,594,572,000 17 Transport and communication 64 473 040 000 18 Framework transfers to the local government sector etc. 177 002 238 000 19 Random expenditure and revenue 5,234 600 000 20 The size, financial management, etc. 32 600 627,000 21 Taxes, duties and customs duties -1 101 980 384 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Dividends, etc. -33 818 451,000 Total before loan transactions and transfers to and from State pension funds abroad 50 505 965 000 ‘... Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to design a model for the fee on salmonnus in the farming industry which provides an estimated proceeds of 900 million. crowns.’» Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The government asks the government to increase the maximum deduction from the tax incentive scheme for start-up companies to SEK 650 000 annually.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to postpone the implementation of a new income system for municipalities and to investigate and promote a proposal for a new income system for municipalities and regional policy instruments to ensure that municipalities, regions and counties promote a more environmentally friendly, more climate friendly and more adaptable municipal policy. A Green Conversion Indicator Set shall also be developed in Norwegian municipalities as part of a new income system.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to identify the need for highly skilled labour in the future and to assess the means of attracting foreign labour if necessary.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e5187	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10–12, 19–21 and 24, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set as a criterion 5 billion. SEK of proposed building loan guarantee of 10 billion. skipbuilding crowns are reserved for the construction of zero-emission ships.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government is asked to continue the quality of life accounts according to Report of the Directorate for Health of June 2016, starting in 2018.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up pilot projects with heroin-assisted treatment in Oslo and Bergen.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to assess how public enterprises can be required to employ a certain proportion of people with reduced working capacity.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government requests the quality assurance option presented by Norsk Bane AS for the operation of InterCity Østfold through Moss in order to ensure the InterCity rail freight potential.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to coordinate the work of Moss with rail transport and new national road 19 in order to achieve rational resource use.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to come back with proposals to make the day of the community an official holiday throughout Norway.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e5237	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22 and 23, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 22 sounds: «The government is asked to submit a proposal for the revision of the annual accounts law, etc. [[Accounting Act]] to include mandatory reporting of climate risk.’;» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of climate budget and accounting requirements in all municipalities, county and state departments.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e5261	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15, 17 and 18, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the penalty framework for electronic foot-link compensation to six months.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government requests that voting by local authorities and county councils be made easily available on the network and in machine-readable format.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government requests a sample to assess how working time should be reduced to 35 hours per week’.» The Socialist Left and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e5290	There is a vote on proposal No. 8. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks, from the financial year 2018, instead of continuing a tax on employment in the financial industry, to increase the tax rate on profits in the financial sector by a rate sufficient to achieve the same accrued income from the financial tax as in the government’s proposal.’;» The Central Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e5307	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is further asked to ensure adequate noise abatement measures, inter alia. shooting paths and SIBO facilities in connection with the establishment of a new national emergency centre on Taraldrud.’;» The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e5324	There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: « Framework Decision No. Name Krona Add User-ID Succeeded Government, etc. 9 625 961,000 2 Family and consumer 45,576,424,000 3 Culture, etc. 14 782 413,000 4 Foreign 36 678 621,000 5 Justis 33 500 758 000 6 Immigration, regional development and housing 23 773 181,000 7 Employment and social affairs 442 018 234 000 8 Defence 49 179 354 000 9 Industry 6,190,239 000 10 Fishing 542 670,000 11 Agriculture 17 609 013 000 12 Oil and Energy -71 228 064 000 13 Environment 9 871,464 000 14 Control and constituency 652 200000 15 Health 194 699 886 000 16 Education and research 75 639 032 000 17 Transport and communication 65 948 340,000 18 Framework transfers to the local government sector etc. 176 849 738 000 19 Random expenditure and revenue 2,662,100,000 20 The size, financial management, etc. 32 605 627 000 21 Taxes, duties and customs duties -1 062 879 133 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Dividends, etc. -32 586 451,000 Total before loan transactions and transfers to and from State pension funds abroad 71 711 607 000 ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e5594	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to develop a broadly anchored national action plan with clear measures to step up Norway’s efforts to achieve the UN’s sustainability targets by 2030, thus reporting through the State budget on the basis of this plan.’ The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e5611	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: « Framework Decision No. Name Krona Add User-ID Succeeded Government, etc. 9,685 361,000 2 Family and consumer 47 383 144 000 3 Culture, etc. 15 303 413,000 4 Foreign 37,024,711,000 5 Justis 33 805 958 000 6 Immigration, regional development and housing 25,038,516,000 7 Employment and social affairs 446 300 834 000 8 Defence 49 303 076 000 9 Industry 6,624,239 000 10 Fishing 537 870,000 11 Agriculture 17 727 013 000 12 Oil and Energy -70 762,764 000 13 Environment 10,986,796,000 14 Control and constituency 652 200000 15 Health 197 941 911,000 16 Education and research 75 293 750,000 17 Transport and communication 64 489 340,000 18 Framework transfers to the local government sector etc. 179 973 458,000 19 Random expenditure and revenue 4,171,650,000 20 The size, financial management, etc. 32,625,627,000 21 Taxes, duties and customs duties 1 087 586 633 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Dividends, etc. -32 702 451,000 Total before loan transactions and transfers to and from State pension funds abroad 63 817 019 000 ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e5880	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: « Framework Decision No. Name Krona Add User-ID Succeeded Government, etc. 9,268,061,000 2 Family and consumer 46 592 524 000 3 Culture, etc. 14 801 413,000 4 Foreign 35,077,412,000 5 Justis 34 094 758 000 6 Immigration, regional development and housing 23 898 881,000 7 Employment and social affairs 445 573 734 000 8 Defence 50 530 076 000 9 Industry 6,023 939 000 10 Fishing 535 770,000 11 Agriculture 18 172 213 000 12 Oil and Energy -71 136 064 000 13 Environment 9,420,671,000 14 Control and constituency 631 200000 15 Health 195 536 527 000 16 Education and research 74 185 132 000 17 Transport and communication 65 252 140 000 18 Framework transfers to the local government sector etc. 179 674 238 000 19 Random expenditure and revenue 3 201 851,000 20 The size, financial management, etc. 32 701 627,000 21 Taxes, duties and customs duties - 1 068 947 633 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Dividends, etc. -32 766 451,000 Total before loan transactions and transfers to and from State pension funds abroad 72 322 019 000 ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e6149	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: « Framework Decision No. Name Krona Add User-ID Succeeded Government, etc. 9,690 361,000 2 Family and consumer 46 078 824 000 3 Culture, etc. 15 212 813,000 4 Foreign 36 800 655000 5 Justis 34 158 945000 6 Immigration, regional development and housing 24 064 160 000 7 Employment and social affairs 446 149 434 000 8 Defence 49 599 376,000 9 Industry 6,456,239 000 10 Fishing 516 470,000 11 Agriculture 17 662 513,000 12 Oil and Energy -71 243 864 000 13 Environment 9,725,471,000 14 Control and constituency 652 200000 15 Health 198 092 369 000 16 Education and research 74 979 932 000 17 Transport and communication 64 872 240 000 18 Framework transfers to the local government sector etc. 177 132 038 000 19 Random expenditure and revenue 3541 600 000 20 The size, financial management, etc. 32,599,427,000 21 Taxes, duties and customs duties -1 071 231 633 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Dividends, etc. -33 192 551 000 Total before loan transactions and transfers to and from State pension funds abroad 72 317 019 000 ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e6692	The Labour Party and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e6962	It shall be counted over III, V, VI, VII, IX, X, XI, XIII, XIV, XV, XVI, XVIII, XIX, XX, XXIII, XXV, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XXXVI, XXXVIII and XXXIX. The Labour Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e6976	It shall be counted against VIII and XXII. The Labour Party and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e6990	It is voted over XII, XXXV and XXXVII. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e7004	It is voted over XXI, XXIV, XXV, XXXIV and XL. The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e7019	It's voted over XVII. The Labour Party and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e7033	It's voted over XXVI. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e7047	It's over XXVIII. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e7061	It goes over XXX and XLI. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e7075	It's votting over the 16th century. The President makes it clear that a correction has been made. Cape. 360 is addressed to Cape. 1360. The Labour Party and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e7092	It's said over IV and XXIX. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-04.ana.ud300e7118	Case No. 3 has been completed. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
