ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e27	The representatives of Tuva Moflag, Per Olaf Lundteg, Silje Hemdal, Hege Haukeland Liadal and Solveig Sundbø Abrahamsen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For the West-Agder counties: Mathias Bernander For Oslo: Zaineb Al-Samarai and Astrid Nyklebye Heiberg For Eastfold County: Siv Henriette Jacobsen and Elin Tvete From the representative Lars Haltbrecken there is a notice that the permit granted from 14 November to 16 November is amended to cover days 15 and 16 November. – This message is taken into account. Representatives Åsmund Aukrust and Gisle Meininger Saudland have submitted applications for leave on days 15 and 16 November, both to participate in the high-level section of the 23rd Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, COP23, Bonn. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: These applications shall be dealt with without delay and shall be accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the West-Agder province: Theodor Barndon Helland For Akershus County: Mani Hussaini
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e110	The representative of Arild Grande will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e115	On behalf of Hadia Tajik, Lise Christoffersen, Siv Henriette Jacobsen, Øystein Langholm Hansen, Jonas Gahr Støre and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative to remove extended access to temporary employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e120	The representative, Mr Breivik, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e125	On behalf of the representatives of Trine Skei Grande, Abid Q. Raja and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative with the prestigious title ‘to continue the obligation to make presentations as of 1 January 2018’.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e130	The representative, Anette Trettebergstuen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e135	On behalf of the representatives of Hadia Tajik, Rigmor Aasrud, Masud Gharahkhani, Kari Henriksen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on the demands of religious and life views in relation to public support.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e141	The representative, Mr Grøvan, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e146	On behalf of the representatives of Olaug V. Bollestad, Steinar Reiten, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to offer all students in Norway a school service before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e151	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e156	On behalf of the big business representatives Petter Eide and myself, I would like to put forward proposals to introduce reasonable conditions for internal migration into the Foreign Affairs Act, ensuring real child-care assessments, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e161	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e179	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to eight rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e188	The background to the case today is an SV proposal to stop all return of asylum seekers to Afghanistan, both adults, young people and children, whether voluntary or coercive. On Wednesday, Stortinget received a thorough review of the security of Afghanistan by returning asylum. We would like to stress that it is the responsibility of the government to make sure that it is safe to return. The working party has long been concerned about the strong growth in the number of unaccompanied minor asylum seekers with temporary residence in Norway. From January to October 2017, approximately 42 pst. temporary residence of the lone minor asylum seekers. Between 2009 and 2015, the proportion was only 4 pst. What was the rule of exception has now become the general rule. When Stortinget treated Prop. 90 L for 2015-2016, the government said that the removal of the reasonableness criterion should primarily have a bearing on whether protection should be granted according to the protection status or stay on a humanitarian basis. And it was said that those who no longer have the right to stay after the protection status will have the applications assessed according to the discretionary provision of Section 38, i.e. humanitarian residence, and that the content of this provision would normally be limited to cases where it was previously considered unreasonable to refer to internal migration. The Labour Party put this to the heart when we supported the proposal. There was nothing in the proposal that suggested that there would be such a big change in who got a temporary stay and who was allowed to stay. The government went even more thoroughly to work. In March of this year, the administration is instructed on even more stringent rules for minors to be referred to internally. The UDI Councils are not followed up and the result has been that Norway has one of the most stringent practices for young people aged between 16 and 18. There are far more children and young people waiting for their lives in Norway than the government has informed the Stortinget. The result has been an almost temporal increase in the number of temporary stays. Once again, the government has mismanaged the consensus on the main line in the immigration area. We can't accept that. That is why we are proposing today changes to the practice followed by the government. We are making a proposal that will require the foreign authorities to pay greater attention to the vulnerability of young asylum seekers when they consider whether or not single minors referred to in internal migration should be granted ordinary authorisation under Section 38 of the Foreign Affairs Act, in line with the proposal for a representative that we have already submitted in the Stortinget. We ask the government to put this in place quickly. We would therefore ask that the UDI re-examine the cases of the lone minors who have been given a decision after 1 October last year, when the law was amended. These are those who have had a temporary stay in Norway and who can be returned to parts of the country other than their home, i.e. those who have been sent on an internal flight. In immigration policy, we must have rules and principles that ensure that we give residence to those who need it the most. Only then can we say that our policies are strict, humane and fair. A new review of the applications for this group of lone minor asylum seekers will not mean that everyone will have permanent residence in Norway, but the proposals we are promoting today will ensure that the most vulnerable young people from countries such as Afghanistan and others are re-assessed as to whether they should be allowed permanent residence in Norway. We propose that the direction given by the government to further tighten up its practice should be removed. That means we are not going to support any of the SV's proposals today. Nor do we support the Left's proposals, but we are promoting our own proposals that will re-examine, and we are asking that until the new reading has taken place, matters be put to rest. I'm taking up the proposals from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e207	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e212	Asylum policy is difficult because it is about individuals, individuals and the fact that everyone who comes to Norway and seeks asylum – whether it be children or adults – does so because they want a better life. It's a fact that some people get rejected. It also applies to unaccompanied minor asylum seekers. Fortunately, the size has gone away from a policy of over-management of the asylum procedure after years of instability and injustice. There are no press groups or actions to decide on asylum applications – there are assessments by the Directorate for Foreign Affairs. I want to remember the story. In 2006, the Storting adopted a proposal for a representative which provided an embellishment of the policy towards single minor asylum seekers. It was introduced in 2007. The next two years, the asylum flow speeded up, and the arrival of lone minors was sixfold. In 2007 it came 400. In 2009, there were 2,500. When the asylum flow speeded up, the red-green government intervened in 2008, and then Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg proposed a tightening package of 13 points and introduced, among other things, temporary residence for lone minors. Norway does not return any children. The returnees are over 18 years old, and their case has been evaluated individually. If there is new information on a case, there is full opportunity to apply for a request for conversion, i.e. have the matter reviewed if you have been refused. In 2015, 5 500 single minors arrived in Norway. Afghans made up 65 pst. After tightening up, Afghanistan is now 21 p.m. and Norway is one of the few countries that have succeeded in returning Afghans who have been refused their asylum application. We know that those people who flee have resources around them. We know that it's not the poorest, but those with money or the ability to borrow to get to Europe. We know it costs between NOK 25 000 and actually NOK 170 000 to send a child. We know that children are being assaulted on the journey. We know that they are at risk of being dragged into criminal environments on the journey, for example. when applying for refuge in other countries after refusal of residence in a country of Europe. We also know that someone makes a fortune to facilitate these escape routes. Today's proposals seem to me to be precisely motivating. They also help to give hope to those who have been rejected, and it must be even more psychologically burdensome to sit and wait for new treatment and, as far as possible, to have another rejection. I want to challenge SV on this: Do you think that single minor asylum seekers will be allowed to stay anyway? I am surprised that the Workers' Party has performed a spin-off for 12 hours. You can ask yourself the question, why? It is alarming what the Workers' Party is doing today. They are therefore in favour of instructing a professional body — without any committee being dealt with, having a hearing or having the department's assessments. The instructions of the Workers' Party will be that the lack of networks or resources to cope with internal migration and social humanitarian conditions in the case of the return situation cannot justify the granting of an ordinary residence permit alone. The instruction also states that specific individual assessments are to be carried out in each case regardless of the applicant’s age at the time of the decision. What the Workers' Party really means is unclear. A lot of questions can be asked in this case. That's why I'm very concerned when Stortinget has to deal with so many issues in such a short time without it being treated. Today, we actually have vulnerability criteria. They are also under the Foreign Affairs Act. I challenge the Workers' Party to clarify what it really is. I strongly advise against the Storting adopting urgent decisions on these matters. They shall be the subject of committee proceedings, consultations and assessments by the Ministry. I believe that the procedure is irresponsible, and that the whole basis for the principle of the distribution of power is actually being challenged. It is not the Stortinget who is to deal with asylum applications. It's the professional authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e231	It is easy to understand that asylum is a difficult field for many. On the other hand, it is important not to forget what the purpose of the asylum institution is. The aim is to provide protection to those with a need for protection, not to those who are just lacking, for example. networks or resources. Today, if the Storting moves towards providing more asylum seekers with no need for protection, it is an active step towards undermining the institution of asylum. Stop in return and lower threshold for stay to groundless asylum seekers will turn Norway into Europe's haven for groundless asylum seekers. Something like that would be neither solidarity nor heartwarming. It is to signal that it will be easier for groundless and more difficult for real asylum seekers to stay. Ultimately, this whole debate is about where the threshold is going to be for permanent stays, and whether we are going to send back those who are not going to have permanent stays. We have received a thorough report from two government councils in the United Kingdom on safety and practice in return for Afghanistan, and here it has become clear that there are thorough and ongoing assessments behind the practice we have and that return is considered safe. Today, the Stortinget will decide whether we should immediately stop returning to Afghanistan. If this is given a majority, it will signal that it is now free for groundless asylum seekers from Afghanistan to come to Norway without risk of being returned. The signal power of this, whether for all or only minors, is the same. There are in fact only two possible outcomes of such a decision. One is to signal clearly that minors should travel to Norway, from which you will not be returned even if you do not need protection. The second is to give false hopes to those who have already arrived, that they may still become themselves if they do not need it. If they stay, we will open the way for groundless asylum seekers to stay. If they don't stay, we have created false hopes and false dreams that we have to crush again at a later time. I do not want to be the one who contributes to building false hopes, creating unforeseeableness or signaling that Norway is Europe's haven for refugees with rejection. I will not be the one to signal to Afghan families that it is now a good time to send minor family members on a dangerous journey to Norway. Norway has tightened up in several areas because the majority of the population in the United Kingdom felt it was necessary. The line we're now on was right when there were many asylum seekers, but it's just as right now. If we are to change policies every time there are changes in asylum arrivals to Norway, every time it is easier to feel sympathy for individuals, it becomes a terrible unforeseeable and unfair policy, and it is true of what Stortinget thought was right only a short time ago. Very many claims about how Norway treats asylum seekers are not correct. Norway does not return minors to unsafe areas. Norway does not differ from all other countries in the assessment of safety in Afghanistan. Norway is not the only one to use temporary residence. Norway does not go in the direction of all other countries in terms of broadcasts, but Norway is leading the way, and the others are coming to learn from Norway. Today is the day when the Workers' Party leaves a responsible and strict asylum policy. Now they depend on irresponsibility, unpredictability and injustice. In reality, the Labour Party says that they want more groundless asylum seekers to stay in Norway for a long time. If it is adopted, the news will spread throughout the day to Afghanistan. Human traffickers will mobilize, and more will come to Norway. It was the Workers' Party that introduced the use of temporary residence. The working party participated in the necessary tightening-up in 2015. Now they turn the other way around. The alternative to temporary residence is either to send out minors immediately or to allow anyone who has to come to Norway to stay. It's a very strong signal and a whole new policy from the Workers' Party. To introduce vulnerability criteria is to open doors. Vulnerability assessments and a number of other assessments are already being carried out. If there are special reasons, you will be allowed to stay today. Norway's policy should be firm, and it is simple: if you have a real need, you have to be. If you don't, you have to get out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e259	Today we are discussing an urgent motion for a resolution which has not been subject to committee scrutiny. It is a form of treatment The size should be restrictive to. Taking decisions over the table in difficult cases is, in most cases, unwise. We see, however, that there may be a need for adjustments in the practice of policies that the government is now implementing, but that stopping all return to Afghanistan, both assisted and forced, is not the way to go. Such a practice would distinguish us from all other European countries, and could therefore also lead to increased influxes to Norway. Nor is it the role of the Storting to deal with individual cases, nor is it a matter of what is safe or unsafe areas. It is then pointed out that the original SV proposal under consideration concerns a temporary stoppage of return to Afghanistan. However, the proposal from the SV which is under comitology is highly uncertain as to what this temporaryity will be. There may be months and it may even be a year if we follow up on the proposals put forward by SV in the draft representative. SV proposes in Document 8:47 S for 2017-2018 that the Stortinget should ask the government to set up an independent expert committee to carry out an open assessment of the rules and practices in these cases. In addition, the sample shall provide assessments and proposals for changes to the system used by the non-resident authorities in the return operation. In the Central Party, we have been afraid that urgent decisions to stop all return to Afghanistan will create false hopes and great uncertainty for people who are not granted asylum but who have temporary residence in Norway. We have no problem understanding that the situation of many of those in this group is difficult, but are we making it easier by giving new postponements and false hopes in the return work? I doubt it. I have already shown that the Central Party believes there is a need for a political review of the practices that are being followed by the government today. The size has been presented with a case concerning the continuation of the restrictions that were made in the Foreign Affairs Act in the autumn of 2015. The Government proposes to continue the instruction authority given by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, UNE. The Central Party supported the proposal to provide the Ministry with a temporary authorising authority. In the 2015 decision, the Stortinget government asks to come back with an evaluation within two years. Now, when we're going to re-examine the case, the Central Party will consider giving UN the role they had as independent judicial bodies in asylum policy. In 2016, the Stortinget adopted new restrictions on asylum policy, including: the lifting of the reasonableness condition by reference to internal flight. The majority of the Committee, of which the Central Party was part, made it clear at the time ‘to continue to assess the existence of humanitarian considerations which nevertheless indicate that a residence permit should be granted. However, the change implies that the assessment relating to the residence permit is assessed according to § 38 of the Act and not to § 28 of the Act.» The Centre Party and the Working Party made the following clarifications in their own note: ‘These members shall assume that the threshold for humanitarian residence shall not be lowered.’ The notes were based on the Ministry's own assessment of the implications of these changes and all indications that insurance is not actually complied with. The strong increase in the reference to return through internal flight gives good reason to ask for that. The Centre Party therefore chooses to support the Workers' Party's proposal No. Four, five, six. These proposals will assess vulnerability in all cases with decisions taken from 1 October 2016. This is not a change in Norwegian asylum policy, but a clarification that Storting's assumptions in the asylum agreement should be followed up. It also respects the central party's important principle of maintaining the right of asylum. Those entitled to protection shall be allowed residence. Those who do not require protection shall be returned. We assume, of course, that the decision on proposal No. 6 implies that a vulnerability assessment must be carried out before any return. It would have been pointless if the government were to spend the taxpayers' money sending out individuals without a vulnerability assessment to bring them back here if there was a different decision. Management has both the knowledge and the capacity to make these assessments rapidly. After the Central Party announced that we could not support proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party, they have changed the text twice. First, it was assumed that these matters would be put to rest, after which it would not be implemented, so that it would not now be implemented until the cases were re-examined, i.e. the vulnerability criterion assessed. That is why, after proposal No, the Central Party will now vote in favour of this. 7 has been amended in line with the wishes of the Centre Party. I would also like to inform you that we are voting against the original proposal and they are resolving the proposals from the SV and the Left, and for the Labour Party's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e297	This issue is about how Norway should discharge its obligations when there are 65 million people on the run, and half of them are children. Most of them do not come to Norway, but we need to be sure that the treatment we provide ensures that no one is sent back to the risk of persecution, torture or imprisonment. No one wants anyone without a need for protection. I wish those sitting in this room stopped misinforming about the proposals that have actually been made. It's about taking a timeout, so we're going through the system, so we're going to be sure that what we're doing is legal asylum policy. Then it is our obligations under the Children's Convention and the refugee law that are to be fulfilled, not the need of the Progress Party to be the strictest. The leader of the UDI has explained to us what the problem is: the threshold of what is needed for us not to return someone is a political question. It is today a very high threshold for asylum," says Frode Forfang. Yes, it is. It's such a high threshold that when we dealt with the tightening-up proposals, which also included the Workers' Party and the Centre's party, many of the hearing bodies, including the UNHCR, said this was contrary to our obligations. The rise in the threshold that has been made has been made political, both by the majority in the Grand Duchy and by the government, which has been empowered by the majority of the population to make these changes, which I am now pleased that the Workers' Party and the Centre seem to be willing to participate in tightening up any of it. It was an authorisation that was granted. This is not about dealing with individual matters in Stortinget. Nor is it about the Storting to make these safety assessments, but it is about the fact that we must be absolutely sure that we are on the safe side, because this is about life and death. Not to be returned to danger or risk of persecution – it's about for everyone. It could be equally wrong if you're 18 or 45 or if you're 60. Norway has this obligation. I just remind you of the mulla cricket, which I don't think any of us really are terribly happy about, but this is why he's here. And are we going to treat some of those who are here today, more stringent than that? The removal of the reasonableness condition has had serious consequences. It was known when we dealt with the matter. It is stated in comments from SV, and it was known during the hearing when we discussed the matter in Stortinget. The fact that you later found out that it was not a very good idea is good. In the asylum agreement, a decision was taken to give the government political powers to make Norway one of the most stringent countries in Europe, and we have been. It is true that other countries have retained the reasonableness of their rules, and this results in fewer returns. Today’s practice is that there is a risk that people with a real need for protection will be returned. The report by NOAS and Redd Barna shows examples of children’s temporary residence, even if they have a need for protection. They are returned to Kabul when they are 18 years old without a reassessment of the risk and without an assessment of the return situation, as adults get. This is not safe. Landinfo reports clearly show that the authorities in Afghanistan have little ability to protect themselves and the international presence. How can one then know that these authorities have the capacity to protect any of those who are being returned from persecution? These are the questions we need to answer. That's why we have proposed a timeout to get through this properly, so that the Storting assumes responsibility that we do not break our obligations. I am pleased that the Labour Party has made proposals today. They don't go far enough, but of course SV will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e318	I assume that Karin Andersen will also address the proposals that have been submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e323	I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e328	The representative, Karin Andersen, has then addressed SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e334	Let's start with a perspective 20 years back in time and a slightly larger sky over this debate. If we look back at the war in the Balkans, through Kosovo, Northern Iraq, Syria and various states in Afghanistan over 20 years – has Norway become a haven for refugees? Have single minor asylum seekers flocked to Norway over these 20 years? No, they don't. Norway has been involved in humanitarian efforts in all four major conflicts. We have accepted many thousands, and most of them have, of course, been refugees with a real need for protection. Now we are talking about two issues – a situation about how we treat children in Norway, and another situation about how the situation is in Afghanistan. In the left, we are absolutely the most concerned about how we treat children in Norway. We have international obligations under, inter alia, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and several have indicated the establishment of a temporaryity from 2008. We're talking about children who come alone, who we've been waiting for in reception, in practice really to express thanks until they grow up, and then to treat them as adults and could basically send them out. It is difficult to understand what it gives children to be put on hold, and it is difficult to understand what they are going to bring back to Afghanistan, where there is at least a great need to contribute to a very difficult situation. We could at least make more out of the possibility when they're here. The situation in Afghanistan is going to change. It's worried. Right now there are some secure pockets, but it is demanding to send children back to internal flight. And it's now, when the influx is so small, that we have time to discuss whether we've tightened too much in the last year, as the Workers' Party really says. But when one removes the reasonableness condition and talks about the four percent, it'll be easier for people if we say that out of 100, 96 still got permanent residence when we used the reasonableness condition. When we removed it, it was about 50 that got it. There is somewhere between the Working Party will be. All the honors of the Workers' Party, who want to let go a little, but it is difficult to understand what the vulnerability criteria will mean when the reasonableness conditions are removed, relate to age, in particular children, gender, the health status of the individual and also the humanitarian conditions in Afghanistan. It is quite demanding when the Labour Party has made a proposal to join this committee, and then an urgent proposal of five to twelve yesterday evening that we should take this over the table in the Chamber today, and no one really knows what the criteria of vulnerability are. Then there is a little lack of logic in the proposal of the Central Party that we vote in favour of the proposal No. 4, paragraph 5 and No 6, but not No 7, and that we should not take the committee procedure that the Central Party has said they really want to. Then the conclusion for the Left and for me is that it must be the proposal from the Left that is the best thing now – that we stop, we take a break for the children who are now going out, really, and then we take the discussion on what reasons we are going to take, which we cannot focus on today in the further discussion. Then we will have time to surround ourselves and find the hatch between 50 and 100, where SV and Left will have permanent residence for children – i.e. 100 – and down towards the 50 who are today being transferred to temporary residence. For the Left, this is really a straightforward matter today, although the matter itself is quite uneasily considering that the most important thing we are talking about is how we in Norway treat children who have come here all by themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e347	Does the representative take up the proposals of the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e352	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e357	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e362	Today, I will begin by commending the Workers' Party, which is taking a few, right steps in its asylum policy. It is a health sign for the Stortinget that the majority can adjust the rate when the intentions of the Stortinget are not fulfilled by the policy pursued today. It is quite clear that this is the case in this case, where the use of temporaryity for lone minor asylum seekers has been triggered as a result of the changes made by the government in Stortinget in the spring of 2016. The Christian People's Party warned against the changes already when the proposal from the government came, and we pointed out what the negative consequences of such a proposal would be. There is little doubt that the will of the majority of the population is different from that of the government in this matter, and then it is only fair and reasonable that the majority uses its power to give the government clear notice of it. When Stortinget examined the government's proposals for changes in the spring of 2016, the Christian People's Party warned that allowing return under the rules on internal refugees – even if it was unreasonable – would primarily affect vulnerable groups such as young people and seriously ill people. The Christian People's Party also indicated that it was necessary to assess the reasonableness of referring to internal refugees in order to comply with the Refugee Convention. We still believe that referring to internal refugees does not challenge human rights. We also warned that Norway already had one of Europe’s most stringent practices in the field of internal migration in the spring of 2016, and that almost all Western countries operate under reasonable conditions in the assessment of internal migration. I register that the Workers' Party has listened more to the government than to our warnings in the spring of 2016. But as I said, it's positive that they're now moving in the right direction. We should have liked to have been the negative consequences of the changes in 2016 in addition. The Christian People's Party will have back the reasonableness conditions and vulnerability assessments that are in line with the international commitments Norway has to make to people. It is thought-provoking and deeply regrettable that those of the so-called October children, such as have fled to France and Paris, not returned to Norway in line with the Dublin Code, because the French authorities consider Norway's practice of returning to international refugees to be contrary to the Convention on Refugees. One week ago, the Christian People's Party voted in accordance with the SV's proposal. That is our primary view today, too. Secondly, we can support the proposals of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e373	In the spring of 2015, this room debated whether to trust the then Minister of Justice Anders Anundsen after Norway had sent out nearly 80 long-term children to Nigeria and Afghanistan. The Greens voted against the motion of censure. Such a decision would have obscured the actual reality of the case: that it was the Storting that had adopted an increase in the target number of forced returns, mid-year, in the revised national budget, which the government followed up by sending out those that are the easiest to send out — families with children. In 2015, the new target for forced return was 7,100, an increase of 400 – overnight, in June. This year, the target increased further, to 9,000, and the government continues to boast of how many they're sending out. Why do I mention this? Well, that's because that case we should have learned from. We should have learned that when political figures, election promises, or vague political points about sending a signal are put ahead of legal certainty and the best interests of children, the principles of the rule of law go unanswered. We make individual people into pieces in a state-owned performance project of the worst variety, which a normal finder in the board of directors that I am sure neither the government nor this big business wants to compare with. That time, as now, it was a group that did not receive any new assessments before it was sent out. The time, as now, was the majority of the population – the Workers' Party and the Center Party, as well as the Left and Christian People's Party – the reason for forced retreats that have since upset the Storting could take place at all. It was the red-green government that in its time introduced the temporary residence scheme for single asylum children, intended as an exception scheme. Secondly, a reasonable claim was removed, which was supported by both the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Right and the Advance Party, despite the fact that this was far beyond the actual scope of the 2015 asylum agreement, namely to deal with the immediate situation of increased arrivals. Here we are at the heart of the problem. The reason Norway is at the top of Europe in forced return to Afghanistan is that the Storting has removed the reasonableness requirement that should ensure that we not only assess whether one can survive in the home country but also whether one can have a life there, in security, with knowledge, networks and infrastructure ensuring fundamental human rights. After the reasonableness requirement fell out of Norwegian law, the approval rate fell from 82 to 28 in one year. As in the asylum child case in 2015, the protection of human dignity is lacking. Of the 50 single cases where single minor asylum seekers have been temporarily resident by NOAS and Redd Barna, the majority of them suffer from mental health problems among young people. Half the young people have been subjected to violence. Over half have experienced that close family members have been killed. Many young people have lived abroad for a long time or do not have networks to support them in return. The review of these 50 cases also shows that, in the majority of cases, the UDI does not assess the child’s best before temporary residence, across the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and thus across Norwegian law. Therefore, the proposals of the Labour Party today are an important step in the right direction: to ensure a reassessment of applications for these young people. It can save lives. Finally, I would also like to remind you that this case does not only concern those who come to Norway as a single asylum child. Afghanistan is not safe. There are several groups that are vulnerable and even more important: in a rule of law, it should be the individual need that is important. I realise that there is not such a fundamental focus in today's debate, but I hope that the parties will look at the SV, Red and Green Party's draft representative thoroughly in the Committee when you get that far. And if there is any doubt: the Greens will vote in favour of SV's proposal to stop returning to Afghanistan immediately. We are also voting in a subsidiary way for the other proposals that are now on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e394	There is a solid basis for the return of lone minor asylum seekers. Norwegian practice is based on the repeal of the so-called reasonableness condition in the event of a return to an internal flight. Norway is the only country in Europe to use internal refugees without such a condition, contrary to the Refugee Convention. Erna Solberg claims on his blog that stopping the returns will make Norwegian asylum policy less fair. It is not unfair to anyone to stop a practice that violates international law. The government parties refer to Landinfo when they claim that it is safe to return people to Afghanistan. There are several problems with this, including: the following: Landinfo omits to mention that returned Afghans are more at risk and violent conflict. This is illustrated in the report The Forced Return of Afghan Refugees and Implications for Stability. The report shows that the lack of information and social networks in Afghanistan are being returned to make them very vulnerable. They have a greater risk of being recruited to the Taliban or IS. Returned Afghans also have a greater risk of poverty and their security situation is more challenging. There are often violent conflicts between the returned and the civilian population on land issues. This information is not available in Landinfo notes, but in their network note, Landinfo refers to the above report. This means that Landinfo actually uses a source that points out that returns have a greater risk of being subjected to violence and that they have a greater risk of radicalisation processes. This gives cause for concern. If Landinfo's reports are the basis for UDI's decisions and Landinfo fails to mention that the people we return face a greater risk than others, it shows that the government is making its decisions on a failing basis. We also have other reports showing the fate of those who are being returned to Afghanistan. One such report is Forced Back to Danger: Asylum-Seekers Returned from Europe to Afghanistan. It shows Amnesty International that Norway is the country in Europe that returns most asylum seekers to Afghanistan. Among those we have returned, there are people who have been seriously injured, people who live in fear, even people who have lost their lives. According to the annual report to the UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan, more civilians were killed in 2016 than in any of the previous years they have documented. They see the same trend in their report for the first six months of 2017. Most of those who are killed are killed in Kabul, in the capital, because of the many suicide attacks. Then it's hard to see that Kabul can be defined as a safe place for return. It is also difficult to see that the authorities have control in Kabul, that there are no acts of war there, when we see that there are more terrorist acts where more lives are lost in Kabul than in the provinces that the authorities say are at war – namely, the provinces of Helmand and Nangarhar. The number of civilians killed and injured is one of the criteria used by the UDI when assessing whether an area is too dangerous for return to be advisable. Now Kabul is the area that has the most killed and the most wounded civilians. The size should reintroduce the reasonableness condition, should stop the returns until the legal aspects of the case and the safety situation are properly established. Redly, the proposals that have come from SV support and will vote in a subsidiary way for the proposals of the Labour Party in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e413	I would like to begin by saying that I am surprised at the way Stortinget deals with these kind of complex things. Today, proposals which have not been subject to thorough evaluation by the Ministry and neither to committee examination shall be contested, despite the fact that this matter has been under discussion for a long time and that proposals have already been put forward for consideration in the Committee. History has shown that restrictions have tended to be followed up by asylum riots, individual issues in focus in the media, followed by political embellishments. After decorations, there will be more arrivals. This is how the signals work in this area. Following a major debate on the treatment of minor asylum seekers, in 2006, the Stortinget adopted a proposal for a representative that provided for the enhancement of the policy towards single minor asylum seekers. The embellishments were introduced in 2007, and the next two years, the asylum flow speeded up. The arrival of single minors was sixfold. In 2007, there were about 400, and in 2009 there were 2,500. When the asylum flow speeded up, former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg proposed a tightening package such as: temporary residence for lone minors. We saw the effect of this immediately: the asylum stream went down to less than 1,000 lonely minors. In 2012, there was talk of the children Norway does not want, and now campaigns were launched by organisations, media and politicians to soften asylum policy. Despite this, the policy was essentially firm, as the government had clearly learned from past miscarriages. In 2015, the number of single minor asylum seekers was once again close to sixfold, to nearly 5,500. The size and government took hold and suggested tightening quickly. A new tightening package was adopted by Stortinget, and the asylum flow to Norway went down dramatically. Now we're probably at a crossroads. We have had record low arrivals in Norway, not least by lone minors. And when the Workers' Party now proposes to soften the policy, this will once again be seen as a good condition for sending its children to Europe and Norway. This appears to be contrary to the trend in other countries. The pressure on Europe is formidable, and everything indicates that it will continue and increase rather than decrease. Then to the Workers' Party's proposal. The head of the Workers' Party has stated that the legislation should not be amended. The instruction is part of the code. Therefore, if the instructions are deleted, the legislation will be amended. But what does the Workers' Party want instead? I have understood that the changes will consist in the lack of caregivers and the lack of networks and resources to cope with internal migration issues having a bearing on whether single minors will be allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis. It is important even after today's legislation. What do you really want? Do you want to cancel the entire section 8-8? The proposal suggests that adult men should be re-treated as if they were 16-18 years old. What about those who have already returned? All matters have to be raised, but the proceedings have been completed for these. What do you really mean? I look forward to the Workers' Party giving a thorough account of the details of the proposals. I have also realized that you believe that there are too many people who have received a temporary permit. So what number does one mean? In 2016, 102 such authorisations were granted to young people from Afghanistan before 1 October, when the reasonableness condition was removed with the support of the Workers’ Party and the Centre’s Party. Then I assume that this number is good -- or what number and what percentage are human beings and what percentage are right? There are also claims that there is nothing in the government's case material that would indicate that so many would be granted temporary authorisation. Of course, the department does not operate by number or percentage on how many people will be able to live in a future where we cannot predict how many will come to the country. Nor can we predict what assessments will be made by the non-resident authorities of the country situation and individual circumstances of the individual case. In the government's proposition, there was nothing to suggest that single minors were not subject to the legislative changes. Of course, it would be clear if it was intended to grant exemptions. Asylum policy is full of dilemmas. When discussing what is expression of warmth of heart, and what is right from an ethical point of view, I think it is relevant to discuss whether those who think embellishment of the policy is the right way to go, is characterized by an attitude about out-of-seeing, out-of-sensual. There are 65 million people on the run in the world today. In Afghanistan alone, there are 34 million people, of whom we expect 15 million to be under 18. Why do you forget these, and concentrate on a few in the big picture who have come to Norway and have their application rejected because the foreign authorities do not think they need protection, but can get it in their own country?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e443	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e448	It is quite predictable when the Council of State goes to the pulpit of the Grand Duchy in these matters. We'll just have to register that. I would like to ask the Council of State at the outset: why did the Council of State feel that it was absolutely imperative to introduce an instruction in March this year which further tightened up the practice of lone minor asylum seekers, who were against UDI's professional advice or recommendations, and which the Council of State needed to understand would further increase the proportion of temporary residence and substantially reduce the discretion of the administration?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e455	That is a good matter for the Council of State, because I regret to say that the Labour Party is not. As far as the UDI is concerned, they come to the Department with practical presentations that they want us to decide on in some cases. One practical presentation was on whether to make a difference between 16-year-olds and 17-year-olds and to assess the issues differently – to give easier residence to 16-year-olds than to 17-year-olds. What the government and department were concerned about was that an individual should be assessed not by age, because 17-year-olds may be more vulnerable than 16-year-olds. It is the life situation and the case of the individual who has to decide it. Therefore, we believed that the instructions were good and that they were also complied with in the UDI. You can see how many temporary permits have been granted; we did a quick little investigation into it. From January to March 2017, it was granted in excess of 230 provisional authorisations, i.e. before this instruction was introduced. 132 provisional authorisations were granted from April to October.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e467	So these were the imperative reasons the Council of State found in March. I also record that the Council of State in its statement, as usual when we discuss these matters, opens up to exaggeration for the whole world that now you open the borders. Now it's just sending kids away. Now it's just to come here, whether you have reason for it or not. The Council of State has stated this on many occasions and that it gives wrong signals, although the Council of State must understand that with this necessary correction that we are now proposing, Norway will still be well aware of the strict side of asylum policy among the countries we are comparing ourselves to in Europe. Doesn't the Council of State see when she chooses to express herself so repeatedly, that she herself sends out the wrong signals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e474	I do not think that the representative of Lauvås and the Workers' Party can impose responsibility on the Council of State for turning around and wanting to soften the legislation. It is a responsibility that the party must take for itself. It's like out there these signals go fast. You don't think very carefully about the details of this kind of decoration. Norway is expected to make changes to the legislation relating to single minors. Then it'll be perceived out there. I'm going to continue to be honest with what I think about the proposals that are up for evaluation. I think it is a pity that the Workers' Party is turning around during these days that have gone since the presentation, and that we are throwing on the table a proposal that is so comprehensive, without a thorough assessment of the consequences. I wish that during this debate I would be given a thorough account by a representative of the Workers' Party, who can tell me how to follow up these decisions. Because what's in these four points is so thin that I have to say that I have a hard time wondering how we're going to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e483	If the Council of State wonders how to follow up any decisions of the Stortinget, the Council of State should perhaps consider whether she is in the right position, for the main task of any Council of State is to follow up the decision of the Stortinge, regardless of the area in which it is located. The council says this is going to send signals, but the main speaker of the Progress Party said that requiring an assessment of vulnerability was to open the doors. So it was so simple, it was nothing. So one becomes a little bit uncertain about what's the correct version of the Progress Party, or whether one here stays with double versions. But if the representative of Engen-Helgheim's version is correct, that getting vulnerability criteria is kicking open doors, I guess the Council of State will see it as easy to follow up the decision of Storting, which is being made later today, and that it will be easy to cancel instructions GI-02/2017. Will the Council of State loyally follow up the decisions taken by the Stortinge in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e492	I will do that to the best of my ability, but my main point is that these assessments are being made today. The proposals for decisions now on the table make no explicit reference to what is to be considered more than today. There are no comments on this treatment that can explain this more fully to the ministry. That's why I'm saying that I expect that maybe the Center Party can also explain what details you think of a follow-up. You can read in the media, but I don't get much wiser about it either. As I explained here, I listened to the representative Gahr Støre today and tried as best I could to hear what we should do here, but I didn't get any sense of it either. Therefore, I hope – because I want to follow the decision of Storting as best I can – that I can get clear answers during this discussion on what changes you want to make in concrete terms. So to the first thing that was said, yes, I'm pretty sure I have the right position, and that I will continue to do a good job as Minister for Immigration and Integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e501	It is so strange about the government and the Progress Party: At one moment they say that we must not interfere with the tasks of the government, while at the next moment the Council of State stands here and – instead of answering a question – says that we must state what the administration should do in the individual cases when we ask for an instruction to be deleted. That's really weird. The centre party does not intend to indicate what the administration is going to do. The centre party is going to be involved in a simple proposal here today, which is that the government has to abolish an instruction that the government has politically imposed on a trade union. And my question is: Will the Council of State loyally contribute to the repeal of that instruction and to the adherence to what will then be the change in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e508	Yes, the instructions may be deleted – that is the least problem. But then comes the question of how to deal with these matters further. Questions will arise from the UDI — perhaps a practical presentation — where they ask: What changes will be made in how to deal with these cases? My challenge so far is that I hear very little information about these details in the proposals for decisions that are available in this matter, and in the submissions that I have heard so far. That is why, once again, I would like to say that I hope that we will have a long and good debate here, and that I will receive thorough explanations from those who are going to vote for this proposal, about what is really in it, precisely because I want to follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e513	The essence of this matter is whether we follow the right of refugees and do not return anyone to danger. I assume that the Council of State agrees that it is also the government's policy. Therefore, I have to go back to this instruction that is mentioned and that is proposed today – an instruction given by the Council of State – because it contains provisions that lead to minors not assessing the situation on return, even if they have grounds for protection when they arrive, i.e. that minors are treated differently from adults, and that adults are given an assessment of their situation on return, but that young people do not get it. Then there is reason to ask: how can the Council of State be sure that someone who has reached the age of 18 while he was here in Norway is safer and more protected by the authorities, if they have grounds for persecution, than one who is an adult?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e518	Those who need protection, they get protection in Norway. I am confident that the foreign agencies will do a good job, as opposed to what I record that Andersen's representative has different issues. The assessments that appear are also made in these cases. The question is whether decisive emphasis should be placed on or part of the overall assessment. The last thing the government believes is that this practice directive is on, and in addition, we believe that individual conditions and not age should be assessed as a starting point. In fact, it is important that we have confidence in the foreign agencies, and I record that Andersen's representative spends a lot of time undermining the job done. I think that's a shame. We are one of the countries in the world that has one of the best systems in this area, and then I think it is important that we have confidence in the job done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e527	I don't lack trust in government, but I have a lack of trust in government, because they're still proposing restrictions that are on the edge of, or above, our international commitments. The Council of State has now failed to respond to why the Council of State has proposed legislation and imposed it on the administration – this is not the initiative of the administration, it is the initiative of the Council of State – a legislation that risks returning those who have been lonely, to conditions that provide a basis for residence if the applicant had grown up. Such changes make it impossible to rely on the assessments made by the Council of State and the obligation not to return to danger, which is at risk from the government’s treatment. Can the Council of State justify why the legislation it has adopted is such that relationships that could give an adult stay will not give it to a child?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e532	We do not send anyone out from 16 to 18 years of age and have received a temporary permit. This means that when you turn 18, and there are conditions that would allow you to stay, you can ask for a change of application and get it evaluated in accordance with adult legislation. Today’s biggest decision will be that adult men of 18 years of age are to be treated in accordance with a legislation that will apply to 16-18 years of age. There's a reason to mention that. The representative, Andersen, is in many respects concerned with internal flight and reasonableness. In a world where 65 million people are fleeing, I think it is reasonable for those who can get protection in their own country to do so, and that we can give protection to those who need it and cannot. The challenge is that the representative, Andersen, wants everyone to stay – in practice open borders – and I think everyone will not.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e539	Now, it is probably the case that the hermetisation of the EU's external borders is the main reason why far fewer asylum seekers come to Norway now. So there's a very small debate in a little glass of water we're in here in Norway. When the Council of State mentions that removing the reasonableness requirement really concerns only a hundred, it is a question of why we use so much rhetoric and energy and break international conventions – spending so much resources on so few. It might as well have been to give all the children a place to stay. But the question is really: I perceive that the Council of State, like the Left, seems to be a little quick to deal with the matter, without committee procedure, in the United Kingdom today. In order to have the time and the depth that the Stortinget wants, will the Council of State invite the Group of the Progressive Party to vote in favour of the Left's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e547	I will not recommend anyone to vote in favour of return. I'm very concerned about what kind of decision can lead to when it comes to signals. I am also very concerned about the decision to be taken here today. It is clear that there are many illegal in Europe. There are also people who have not applied for asylum anywhere, but who live within our outer boundaries. Right now you have relatively good control, but we know that the pressure on Europe is most likely to increase only in the years to come. Therefore, you must not believe that this is a passing phenomenon, and that is why you must have a tough course. So I would say that I don't recognize that we're breaking international conventions. No, we suggest that the laws and regulations to be adopted are always within the international conventions, and that of course it is also taken into account when dealing with individual matters. That is a very obvious principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e554	I find it alarming that the Council of State defends the lack of a real assessment of the protection basis of the 18-year-olds who are being sent out, asking for the decision to be reversed. It requires resources that very many of these young people don't have. In addition, we need to have a regulatory framework that we believe is right, not presuppose that people have to appeal or have a decision rescinded. When I asked the Minister for Immigration and Integration last week to explain whether she had rejected advice from the UDI in this case, I was not given a reply. But it's on the government's website, and we've also been made clear in the reply exchanges, that it was stated in the instructions of the Council of State. We therefore know that the Council of State instructs not to place crucial emphasis on the lack of networks, resources and the social, humanitarian situation of children in the internal refugee area when, at the UDI, the authorities assess the basis of residence for single asylum children. Here, there might also be a little bit of a start in interpreting the Greatness in what we want to do, which is what you could have emphasized.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e559	Interpreting Stortinget – I would assume that during this debate, which is most likely to take place for a few hours, you are able to give quite clear signals about what you actually want to change. You have to have a qualified view of what you want to change when you make four proposals in the Grand Duchy. Of course, I'll wait for that. So it's true that we've given an instruction in March on a practice presentation from the UDI, which I've previously explained. We have also received two other practical presentations from the UDI on the security situation in Afghanistan, which we have taken for information.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e566	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e573	There are about 65 million people fleeing the world. Some refugees from war. Others are persecuted because of their sexual orientation or because of their faith. Many people go on a long journey towards Europe in the hope of creating a better life for themselves and their families. Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in, and it's not hard to understand that many people would have a better life here. If you are persecuted, afraid of persecution or inhuman treatment in your home country, you can get asylum. Everyone entitled to protection should be protected, and they should be integrated into Norwegian society as quickly as possible and should get to work and school. All applicants for asylum shall receive an individual treatment of their case. The case is handled by UDI and UNE, which are professional actors who cannot be instructed in individual cases. They take decisions, including: on the basis of information provided by Landinfo, which is also a professionally independent body. The assessments carried out by the non-resident authorities are concrete and complex, and precisely in order to ensure that everyone is properly and fairly dealt with in their case, it is still up to the professional authorities to carry out those assessments. If we leave it up to politicians to assess which countries are safe or not, we risk getting a politicisation of the asylum system that gives us inconsistent decisions. The background to our actual debate on this matter is that SV does not trust that the foreign authorities can make these assessments. It is not possible to say much more clearly than this representative Lars Haltbrecken says to the address newspaper today, that SV does not trust Landinfo. After today's debate, questions can also be asked about whether the Workers' Party is moving towards the SV's line and whether it has no confidence in the professional authorities anymore. Asylum policy must be consistent and fair in order for us to continue to be able to give shelter to those people who are entitled to protection. Asylum policy must be consistent whether there are many or few arrivals in Europe and Norway. That is why the government's policy is also firm, and we are much better prepared now if the asylum flow to Europe is to resume. What happens if the opposition proposal is adopted today, we don't know, but we know that the signals we send actually have something to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e586	Individuals matter. One of those who have meant something in the harvest is Taibeh Abbasi. Five years ago, the family came to Norway. Taibeh today lives in Trondheim and attends Thora Storm secondary school. Now the Norwegian authorities will send her and her family back to Afghanistan. Afghanistan is not at home for Taibeh. She's never been there, she's born on the run because the parents' homeland is unsafe. A few weeks ago, thousands of students in Trondheim demonstrated under the slogan: La Abbasi be! The student's commitment to humanity matters. Today, I hope we can take some steps in the right direction. I sincerely hope that the bulk of the population does. Taibeh wrote a few weeks ago on my Facebook page, and I would like to share with you some of what she wrote there: "I'm Taibeh, the girl who dreamed of going to school. I am the girl who was treated unfairly for many years when I lived in Iran. I used to stand in the window and look at the Iranian girls who went to school. My biggest dream was to be in their shoes, get knowledge and education. I dreamt about learning to keep the pencil right and to be able to write the letters right. [[...]] I'm the girl who walked on her feet across the mountains and crossed the limits to get to a better life. In the cruel flight up here, I have every day wanted to come safely to a place where my family and I will be accepted and treated like everyone else. [[...]] I'm very proud of everything I've achieved in the difficult years. I got to go to school and got a lot of knowledge. [[...]] It's hard to think about a life in Afghanistan. I see no future for myself and my brothers. We've never been to Afghanistan. There are children, especially girls, being kidnapped, raped, coerced, and a lot of other terrible things. My dreams of education and career will be shattered. For us, Afghanistan is not safe. It feels like you've come up on a mountaintop, and this is going down again." Norway needs more like Taibeh and her fellow students. Let's listen to them. Leave them alone. They want that with SV's proposals. We know that reports have come to light that the situation in Afghanistan is not as safe as today's government wants it to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e608	Norway is a country that respects its international obligations and provides them with protection if necessary. However, it must also mean that asylum seekers who do not have protection requirements have to leave Norway. The asylum institution shall be a last resort for those in need of protection, not a visa option for those wishing to migrate to Norway for other reasons. That's what I fear happens if the left-hand side now has to pursue its asylum policy. It is a dangerous way to go if we ignore the principles that people who come from a country where it is possible to stay safely in other parts of the country, so-called internal refugees, will still be allowed to stay in Norway. It means in practice that there is nothing to say if you have a right to protection or not, and that regardless of the need for protection, you say that everyone should be included. The Councils of State Listhaug and Eriksen Soreide made two very good presentations last week. It was also mentioned that almost no other country believes that Afghanistan is so unsafe that one stops all returns. But the SV's proposal is not just to stop forced returns, it is also about stopping assisted returns, i.e. voluntary returns to Afghanistan, despite the fact that many Afghans have voluntarily returned to Afghanistan from neighbouring countries in recent years. It's like this, whether we like it or not, that one of the most powerful tools we have as a major force in our daily asylum policy is the political signals we choose to send out. I want to remind you how much political signals have to say. I would like to remind you that Jonas Gahr Støre in 2015 from the pulpit at the National Labour Party meeting invited 10,000 refugees to Norway. Only a few months later, during the refugee crisis, we could see asylum seekers on the border of the Churches using this invitation as their reason why they just came to Norway. Political signals work very quickly, because they reach both them and them without a requirement for protection. So the batches that send out signals that they are now doing have to take over the consequences of what they choose to do. However, sending a signal that asylum seekers from Afghanistan will not be sent out without protection in Norway, even if professional assessments indicate that it is safe, could have a significant impact on the number of persons without protection requirements coming to Norway. I would like to finish by reading some wise words from the government of Stoltenberg, who wrote the following in the proposition of Odelstinget when it came to the treatment of new foreign law. ‘There may well be other situations in which there may be a desire for the Ministry/State Council to postpone the implementation of negative decisions, for example because different actors in the field believe that UDI and UNE are wrong [[...]] These were wise words from the Center Party, SV and the Workers' Party under the previous government. I hope they will repeat them now as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e624	This past week we've witnessed a military policy we've unfortunately been familiar with in recent years from the country's largest party. A long-term and predictable asylum and immigration policy has been replaced by short-term policy responses to brighten and silence parts of the grassroots in the Workers' Party. It is sad, and in many ways it marks a shift at Støre & Co. What they said after their group meeting on Wednesday last week is no longer valid. Much of what the Workers' Party Vice-President said in the debate on the NRK last Thursday, is only partly the Labour Party's policy this week. What has actually changed since last week, however, we have not received an answer. Is there any new information available? Is there a change among rejected asylum seekers, who have been called 'October children', even though they are not children? I believe we must be able to answer that question from the Workers' Party. If there's something new, of course, it should also flow to us other people in this room, so that we can make decisions in line with the Workers' Party. But I don't think there's anything like that. When Jonas Gahr Støre attended the national assembly of the Labour Party and warned against the liberalisation of asylum and immigration policy, that was what he warned against. So long it lasted predictability. In Political Quarter this morning, Gahr Støre came with what he called a political warning, warning against the Progress Party in this matter, and what we could think of saying during the day. We are predictable, as Lauvås said in the change of lines with the Council of State. We have one policy, and that is the same policy this week as last week. However, Gahr Støre has tried political forecasts earlier, last in April 2015, when he invited 10,000 into the country, and we ended up with over 30,000. There we may be again today. As VG writes in a comment today: ‘Many of these young boys should never be seduced into leaving. And if we liberalize the practice, several of them will go on the dangerous journey." The eagle of Norwegian politics has landed — perhaps too well, and for some short-term rhetorical victories. It is not certain that there is any disadvantage for us to win a majority in a few years' time, but for the predictability of asylum and immigration policy, unfortunately, there are many steps backwards. Is there anyone who should know what it can mean, in particular the Workers' Party and Jonas Gahr Støre, but there is also a heavy responsibility on the Centre Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e640	Behind every asylum number and every asylum application is a human being. The debate in the asylum policy challenges our values and our humanitarian responsibilities, and therefore it is absolutely essential that we provide for good debates and thorough proceedings. That's the opposite that's happening today. It is a difficult matter to consider when there are proposals on the table, no comitology and not a proper process, particularly with a rug where it is often manufactured as if Norway were returning a large group of minor children. It's not like that. The temporary residence scheme is difficult, but one might ask, what is the alternative? Either a residence permit may be granted to all children coming to Norway regardless of whether they fulfil the conditions for protection or residence on a humanitarian basis, or a refusal may be granted to those children who do not fulfil the conditions for residence. But what about those who do not have a proper care offer in their home country? This is both about each individual's uncertain life situation and how our legislation can help prevent more children from being sent out alone on life-threatening journeys – or whether it will actually contribute to the opposite. The representative, Mr. Örmen Johnsen, said in his speech that the Stortinget has gone away from a political overarching of asylum procedures after years of instability and injustice. There are no press groups or actions to decide on asylum applications; it is the Directorate for Foreign Affairs. I agree. It is problematic in principle if we at Stortinget decide which countries are safe or not safe to return to. Landinfo, UDI and UNE have the authority and the competence to do this, we don't have that as big business representatives. Then, of course, there is government and enlargement to preside over asylum and immigration policy, but it is not done in a hurry. We know that this matter requires predictability and long-termity and has great consequences, and therefore it is alarming when a party like the Workers' Party, which is used to know responsibility as a governing party and knows what it involves, almost overnight changes its view of the matter. I deeply disagree with how this matter has been dealt with, and I do not want to support the proposals that have been promoted here today on this basis. The matter is definitely worthy of more thorough preparation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e657	SV is pleased that we have received this debate in Stortinget. It is an important and absolutely fundamental debate. We can also read from some of the signals that some parts are moving something in our direction, and that's very nice. On the other hand, I am very concerned about what comes from the Progress Party. They believe that undermining the institution of asylum is taking a time-out from forcing people to return to the risk of danger in Afghanistan. I would say that is quite the opposite: the SV's proposal is about strengthening the asylum institution. We're based here on an international principle that we call the non-refoulement principle. It is enshrined in the Refugee Convention and in the European Convention on Human Rights. There's a clear ban on returning people if there's the least risk of danger. We don't have to have the facts about the risk in Afghanistan, it's about the risk of danger. It must be because an asylum seeker who wants to flee from war or persecution must be able to know that he can come to another country without risk of being sent back to danger. The non-refoulement principle, which is also enshrined in Norwegian law, implies a precautionary principle, and that is what we are discussing here. We don't want to send people back to Afghanistan as long as there's a risk of danger, and we have to have this clarified before we can start such a practice. The SV's proposal is thus a strengthening of the asylum institute. There is a crucial and fundamental pillar of international law, and we must never let go of that. It is therefore very alarming that the policy of the Progress Party helps to undermine this very important principle. As many here know, I have been the leader of Amnesty for many years. And I have never, in the 20 years I've been with that organization, read a report that has criticised – almost skin-stained – Norway like the last report, which is about forced return to Afghanistan. Looking from the outside, from the world of international human rights and international diplomacy, it is striking that Norway is choosing such a practice. This raises awareness because many countries normally look up to Norway, for Norway is usually one of the leading countries engaged in building up under an international legal order. It also raises awareness that Norway will no longer take the lead in further developing the pillars of a global legal order.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e675	The fact that the government and the state council are now getting the bulk of the population against it, it's probably going to feel bad. I can understand that, but now it is necessary, and it should also be noted by the Right Party and the Advance Party – including the Council of State. I record that several representatives from the Right – Ørmen Johnsen, Tveiten Benestad – advise against this vote. They in many ways advise against this whole debate, they believe that this is irresponsible. The irresponsibility here lies with the government and with the government parties when they choose to use the powers granted by the Stortinget and the comparisons made by the parties in a way that violates understanding and that violates trust. That's what's irresponsible. It's unsolvable. That is why this needs to be corrected, and that is what the Storting is doing today. I further record that we get a long tirate that we open the borders. The representative, Engen-Helgheim, spent most of his contributions talking about opening the borders. I just repeat that it's going to be wrong, Engen-Helgheim, it's wrong to say that, and I have to ask you to stop it, because that's what gives the wrong signals. You're helping to create confusion about what's really going on, and it's also a big responsibility to take. Especially when it comes to representing Norway as a government party, you should think better about it. It is that we must have rules and principles that ensure that we give residence to those who need it the most. That's what the asylum institute is. Those who do not need protection shall return. There is no disagreement about this. A new review of applications from a group of lone minor asylum seekers will not mean that everyone will have permanent residence in Norway. We are now restricting the wide access of the Right-wing Party government to continue to increase the proportion of lone minor asylum seekers with temporary residence in Norway. That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e686	The President will remind you that all speeches must be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e691	Should we point out a few single children in a poor and unstable country and give them all the help and assistance we can, or should we help far more from the same country using the resources there? Everyone's heard that argument before. Yeah, we can do both of these things, as many people in this room would say, but we can only spend the money once anyway. Today, there are 34 million people living in Afghanistan. The population has tripled in 25 years. 45 pst. of all residents under the age of 15, more than 20 million are under the age of 18. In reality, the opposition says that Afghanistan is safe, safe enough for 20 million children, but not for a hundred who have left their country. These cannot live with their 20 million identical countrymen. In such a perspective, we in Stortinget discuss whether a hundred of these 20 million people will be accommodated, services and services in one of the world's richest countries, all the rest of 34 million Afghans can only dream of. This is a game for the gallery, the feeling and the attempt to appear as most merciful as possible, the good to the wicked, the warmth to the cold. And the media set 100 pst. on the part of the good. TV2 and licensed NRKs are running off to report on the terrible situation in Afghanistan. They cough up Afghanistan experts and legal experts, all of whom say that return will lead to persecution and killing. The game is completely without impact assessments. And what are we going to do with them when the conclusion is already drawn? The children of Afghanistan will become a cultural and economic resource for Norway. What research says is irrelevant. Yes, the research exists; it has been reluctantly presented by the SSB. As responsible politicians, we have a duty to take on a little bigger glasses and try to see developments in Afghanistan in a slightly larger perspective. Yes, Afghanistan is a war country. The Taliban is a threat to many. The Taliban is a terrorist. It is precisely because of the fact that some 50 Western countries have sent 130,000 young men and women to make the country safer. At the same time, we are sitting in Norway discussing whether these 130 000 foreign soldiers have made Afghanistan safe enough for its own citizens. We're sending our young men and women to fight the Taliban in Afghanistan. At the same time, hundreds of thousands of Afghans escape from their own country and seek asylum in the same countries that fight the Afghan war. After me, another representative comes to the pulpit, who wants to talk about micro-policy, a representative with great political ambitions, and who should be able to see this matter in a wider perspective. Unfortunately, he is also only concerned with the conduct of petty opposition policies. This debate is not an outstretched hand for Afghans. It is not a debate to help as many Afghans as possible. The debate is an opportunity for Norwegian politicians, media, organisations and selected experts to present the world as a struggle between the good and the bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e708	The President will recommend not to use the term ‘mild’ for other depositors.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e713	Thank you, President, I choose to take a big look at it. To bring the debate down to what it is all about: the proposals today are about correcting the course something to fix some of the results we have seen against a group of vulnerable young people – sentence, finished talking! Let us clarify: asylum policy in Norway is firm. International commitments: those with a need for protection shall be protected. The main principles are established. The Labour Party stands by the decisions we have taken here, the broad agreement and other decisions, and we trust and trust in the foreign administration until the opposite is the case. We ask questions and assure ourselves of practice. The Labour Party is faced with a strict, fair and humane asylum policy that ensures control at borders and that the principles are followed. But – we are not passive spectators to government policy and discretion. It's our job to follow up on it, and when necessary say from now on. When the reasonableness condition was scrapped, voted off, shot the tempo in the weather. When we agreed to that decision, it was said here that then we clearly stated that the threshold for humanitarian stay should not be lowered. The government assured me of that. Anyway, shoot the temporary in the weather. That's why we're doing this. These are the isolated themes. To the Council of State: We have confidence in the administration. We've listened to a UDI boss who says that Norway is now completely on the verge of our international commitments. It's not supposed to be Norway. Norway should be good within that limit, so we can stand and see the world in our eyes. Yeah, it's unusual to make suggestions like this. It's an unusual situation, too. Let me make it clear: what we want is that greater emphasis should be placed on the criteria of lack of caregivers, networks and/or resources to establish themselves in internal conflict areas – greater emphasis on this, greater emphasis on this in the UDI judgment. How it's done, we're going to leave to the administration, the department, and we're going to follow closely the way it's done. Then I want to say to the Council of State again: she cannot say on the one hand that this is liberalisation, and on the other hand that it is opening doors. There is an element of correctness in what the Council of State says about open doors. These are open doors to criteria that are known. We want them to be more focused on. Then I would also like to stress: there is no reason to say that this is a signal that people can come to Norway. We have a strict asylum policy. Europe is almost closed. It's the figures of the Progress Party that's standing here, including the Council of State, and they say it. They're the ones that send signals. When a Norwegian Council of States says that it is now free for all groundless people to come to Norway, it is reported? Yeah, I think so. Is that wrong? Yeah, I think so. Today, the majority of people take responsibility, put their feet down for a practice we have not wanted – in this area, isolated, clarified, and that is more in line with Norwegian values and traditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e732	The representative Tybring-Gjedde calls this micropolitics. What matters is, and what is the nerve in this discussion is the question of whether the Storting should ensure that the practice in this very sensitive area is within the legal security standards that Norway is familiar with. It clearly does not believe a large majority is the case, and that is the adjustment that the majority of the population wants to make, and which I believe the Council of State and the Government parties should take over, because the Council of State has used its authority of instruction to UDI in such a way that it has created imbalances in the decisions made by the Storting. Then I want to say that what I see as the most serious is the way that especially Listhaug today and over time has argued for in all the questions that are related to that matter Stortinget is dealing with today. It's consistent to say, the subtitle is like this: we don't have to have a code and a practice that makes people in need come to Norway. I think that must be rejected, not only through a decision and voting, but through a verbal settlement with this political morality. It's not Norway that's served. It is not worth Norway that we have government councils and depositors who claim this. Norway shall be a humane country. Besides being a state of law, we're going to be a humanistic state. And it does not just require legal rules and practices, but it requires a political argument and morality in this assembly that is such that we reject the fact that people in distress and poverty triggered by war, for a few, come to Norway and are to be met with such characteristics. It is the most serious thing in the matter. That's what the Storting through a voting, hopefully or quite safely, is going to reject through the actual we're doing, but there's also a political morality in that very decision. I think that's the most important thing, and I'm glad, because it's necessary that it should come, it should perhaps come before, but now it's coming today, and it's a good day for the Norwegian collapse, for humanism and for the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e739	Last week we had good presentations by both Councillor Listhaug and Councillor Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide. We then learned that there was no one – except SV – who wanted to vote for a total stopover to Afghanistan. So the parties have thought a little bit more about it, and today there are a number of urgent proposals, without any thorough processing, without what the Workers' Party is often concerned about, namely to have the matter brought to light from all sides. The party leader and parliamentary leader Jonas Gahr Støre says that this is what it is all about, the sentence, that is, the three proposals. Then Martin Kolberg comes to the next post and says that this is about humanism and morals, political morality. He repeated the article from the Nordic Council, which received a good report. Stein Erik Lauvås accuses the Council of State of Listhaug of being predictable. Yes, thank you for being so – in a situation where the Labour Party every second time contributes to the tightening and liberalisation of Norwegian asylum policy. We spent the whole autumn of 2015 negotiating an asylum settlement, and the first point of the asylum settlement is: ‘Prioritise the rapid return of persons who have been denied their asylum application and, in particular, give priority to the return of groups where this will have an impact on the future flow’.» This was carefully reviewed, we dealt with this in many meetings, and so today the Labour Party comes with an urgent proposal. The instruction to be deleted was given on 29 March. Then my question is: why could a person not then spend time dealing with this – as I understand the Centre party would really do – to ensure that a person was given a good explanation of the matter? The party leader and parliamentary leader Jonas Gahr Støre listed in his statement some points on which he wants to change. It has been referred to and included in the protocol, and that is the source of the change in Norwegian asylum policy that the Labour Party provides. I don't know if I'm going to look at Martin Kolberg's posts or Jonas Gahr Støre's posts as an expression of the Labour Party's attitude. I trust that this is Gahr Støres, that this is a slight change. But it didn't sound like that on Martin Kolberg. It seemed to him as a general settlement with a lack of humanism — and that in a country that is at the top of aid, which has assisted most refugees in Syria and which has contributed strongly in Afghanistan to providing girls with education and creating a safer society. Unfortunately, these are wrong signals to send from a collapse that has come together on asylum policy. There is one winner here today, and it is SV, who stood outside the asylum agreement – today they win.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e759	Justice must be the guiding principle of asylum policy in Norway. Those in need of protection will get it. Those who do not have the right to stay shall be returned promptly. Temporary residence for lone minor asylum seekers should be the exception. The government is about to let the exceptions become the rule. This direction did not want the Workers' Party. The strongly increasing proportion is a result of the grip of the Progress Party and the Right has taken up government, contrary to the will of the Storting. With our proposals, the Workers' Party today wants to correct the course. The government has gone beyond the limits of the unity we have had. Today we tell you about it. It's not that we open the boundaries with this and we'll let everyone in. The Council of States must stop saying that. This is not an open invitation. We are still among the most stringent countries in Europe. Hasn't the Progress Party brought it? How can the Progress Party claim that we will be Europe's port of refuge for groundless asylum seekers? With the removal of reasonableness conditions, we conduct a practice that is more stringent than in most European countries. It is true that the vulnerability criteria are in the law, but it does not help when the government instructs the UDI not to place particular emphasis on them. That's what we're fixing today. The Save Children report clearly shows that the best of the children in very many cases is not assessed. Is the representative Ørmen Johnsen satisfied with the individual assessment? It is not surprising what the Workers' Party is doing today. What is alarming is that the Right has abdicated in immigration policy and no longer has the power to address completely obvious problems, but rather runs after the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e770	It is good that we are making decisions today that involve a step in the right direction for the treatment of a group of very vulnerable people. There is a victory for the great popular commitment that has been around these matters, even though we want to go on some points further. But there is a need to respond to some of the claims made from the Right and the Advance Party. Firstly, this with signals: if the Progress Party really believes that everything that is said in this Chamber is spreading like fire in dry grass to human traffickers throughout the country, then the representatives of the Progress Party are standing here saying that Norway is becoming Europe's port of refuge, that it is free from Afghans, and that the borders are open. Then the Progress Party is responsible for those signals, because none of what they say is true. There is no one in this room that will have open borders. So if the Progress Party is busy sending signals, they have to stop saying things that are questionable about what the other parties mean. Secondly, the representative Örmen Johnsen began on a small state scientific explanation of the principle of power distribution. Who is it that has politicised Norwegian asylum policy? The agreement reached in Stortinget contributed to a violent politicisation, because it gave the government great powers to govern by instructions. It's not today changing the distribution of power. It is not today that this field is being policed. It has been Lord Johnsen on himself, and it is through the agreement that the government parties, the Labour Party and the Central Party carried out a large and comprehensive politicization. So to the charge of 'out of sight, out of mind': why does the Storting have to discuss extra carefully the people who are actually in Norway? Well, that's because we can do something for those people, and those people we have a responsibility for, because it comes from our international obligations. In addition, there is nothing to suggest that the Council of State, Listhaug, goes in to spend more money helping people where they are, as it is called, when the costs of refugees in Norway go down. There is no trace of such a commitment in this state budget. What is clear, on the other hand, is that the most important thing for the Advancement Party and the Right is to spend a lot of money on, for example. lower taxes to people with a share capital. It's very confusing whether the Council of States thinks it's easy or difficult to follow up today's decision. What's obvious is that the Progress Party finds it difficult to communicate, but that's a consideration that the Storting luckily doesn't have to care about. I hope that the Council of State will stop complaining and start doing its job, and that is to follow up a very clear and orderly decision in Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e783	I would like to draw attention to the fact that ‘doubt’ has previously been cited as an unparliamentary use of words.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e788	In asylum and immigration policies, there are two extremes – either that everyone who wants to come should come, or that the borders should be closed and that no one should come. As far as I am registering, there is no one in this room who believes any of the extremes. All of us are somewhere between the two extremes, and therefore we must also have a regulatory framework that governs how we practice our policies. No one believes that everyone should come to Norway, and no one believes that everyone should be stopped at the border. Norway must have a strict and fair asylum and immigration policy, but we must also have a humane and humane immigration policy. And let me add: those who are going to stay in Norway, who are going to stay in Norway, are going to treat us with respect and in a proper way. I am surprised at the argument of the Progress Party here in the Chamber today. Speaker Engen-Helgheim said something like that, with the proposals of the Workers' Party, Norway is now Europe's haven for refugees. He also said something such as that the Workers' Party is now leaving a responsible asylum policy. No, it's as wrong as it matters. But what's really bad is that it's Engen-Helgheim, Christian Tybring-Gjedde and Listhaug that are set to govern and manage this policy area in Norway. And even more eye-catching is that the Right and Erna Solberg and Trond Helleland let the Advance Party do what they're doing. The whole idea behind the asylum institution is that those who need protection should get it back, and those who don't need it. That's the way it has to be. However, the Labour Party believes – and it is gratifying to see that it also appears to be the majority of the population – that in the assessments made for single minor asylum seekers, it is important to consider whether minors are particularly vulnerable, i.e. whether they have caregivers and a functioning network around them, or whether they do not. This was agreed by the Labour Party's national meeting in the spring, and in the Workers' Party it is that when the national meeting decides something, it is the large-scale group and large-scale representatives who follow up and promote proposals in the Stortinget. If Trond Helleland is unsure of what the Workers' Party means, he could start by reading the Workers' Party's proposal, in four points. It should be possible to get into it. The principles of asylum policy are firm, but it is also possible – and it is right – that when minors are particularly vulnerable, it should be emphasised.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e802	There are several people who have asked why we do not deal with these matters in committee. The point is that we need a temporary return to allow Stortinget to go through the legislation properly – that is what SV has asked for in the first place. There has been no initiative from the government parties. Today, a small opening has come from the Workers' Party, to do something about the rules that make us completely at the edge of and perhaps above the limit of what are our basic obligations under international law. The Labour Party leader said we should be good within the border. That's what SV agrees with. That is why there is a need to vote in favour of these proposals today, because there is no danger of them voting in favour. They're just small changes that make you maybe take a little step away from that limit. However, there is a need to review this, which is why SV has today promoted a number of other proposals to be addressed in the Committee. The refugee convention and human rights are a fragile world order that civilized countries agreed on after the Second World War, just to have a little protection for people on the run. That's what this is all about. Out of sight, out of mind, the Council of State said, as the sea argues, as if there are no refugees coming to Norway, there are no refugees at all. They exist. Norway should certainly do much more to help them there, and Norway should definitely accept more quota refugees, as requested by the United Nations, because the humanitarian situation in the refugee camps and the security situation is at a loss. Governments say no. And the government says no to go through how the legislation has now been, sail if it is possible to demonstrate that someone who has a need for protection – it says in their decisions – will nevertheless be returned without reassessment when they reach the age of 18. I understand that the Progress Party can sit still and participate in this. I really don't understand how the Right can sit and be involved in this. Where have the humanitarian chieftains in the Right been – who stood here in the Storting and defended international law before, who stood and defended the rule of law and that we should not send anyone back to the risk of persecution? I record that they have all now become a sub-department of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e813	Both the spokespersons of the Right and the Council of State spoke in their speeches about the results of some liberalisation in asylum policy in 2006 and 2007. In many ways, it was right that it created challenges for the asylum institution at the time. There was also some of the background to the tightening up of the red-green government in 2009. The tightening up of the red-green government in 2009 is still at the heart of the Centre Party, and it was not least that temporary residence was introduced for persons between 16 and 18 years of age. What we stood for in the Red-Green Government, the Centre Party will also stand for after today's debate and voting. The asylum institute is a broken topic. But it's important that there are some clear boundaries. These were in and of course quite good presentations last week. For the Central Party, it is important that the Storting cannot take over and define the areas that are safe or not. That's a problem for the colleges. Nor can we agree that the Storting should assume responsibility for all groups in such a way that immediate stop is introduced by an entire group. It is the responsibility of the administration to deal with issues of protection for individuals. That is why the Central Party cannot vote in favour of the SV's and Left's proposals here today. But the proposals we want to vote for do not in any way violate the asylum agreement. On the contrary, one good thing is that those proposals clarify the asylum agreement on which we were united and on which we are still united. What the Centre Party supports today is not – as the Voices of the Right said – to instruct a profession. No, what we're supporting is lifting a political instruction that the government has given to a trade union. They have done so without having a clearance with Stortinget on that particular matter. It should not be so difficult – in and of itself – for the Progress Party and the government, because here they are saying that demanding an assessment of vulnerability is kicking in open doors. Then it can't be very difficult to deal with the decisions that are probably being made in the hall here today. I must finally say that when one hears that tone the Progress Party chooses in today's debate in the Storting, one wonders what the Christian People's Party, and especially perhaps the Left, thinks about its support role for this government. In the extension of today's debate, and I see that now four FrPs in a row have signed up on the list of speakers, it will be very interesting to follow both the negotiations they have on the State budget and the negotiations they have on possible government participation. The tone is set for pretty interesting times in front of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e826	The Labour Party's proposal today does not support the Labour Party's policy on asylum policy on a general basis. The Labour Party has always been responsible for a strict, humane and fair immigration policy. It is firm, and it has been firm since our national meeting in April last year. Justice must be the guiding principle of asylum policy in Norway. Those in need of protection should receive it, and those who do not have a right to it should, of course, be returned – as previous practice. The Labour Party has long been concerned about young asylum seekers who have had a temporary residence permit and now, after 18 years of age, have to be returned to their own country, i.e. through an internal refugee. In the past, temporary residence for lone minor asylum seekers was an exception – we were at about the same time. 4 pst., now we're over 40 pst. It's no longer an exception, it's almost become a rule. This is a development that the Workers' Party has never wanted, and that is the result of what the Advance Party and the Right have done in government, contrary to the will and will of the Storting. When the government proposed to abolish the reasonableness conditions, it informed the Storting that those who lost the right of residence because of this would instead be allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis. The government did not announce that there would be a sharp increase in temporaryity for young people between 16 and 18 years of age, as it has now. In this area, the Prime Minister and the Council of State have once again mismanaged the consensus on the broad lines of immigration policy. Nor can the Workers' Party stand in for this. I record that Listhaug is amazed at how Stortinget treats complex matters. I can assure you that the Workers' Party has worked long and well on this matter. However, we are very surprised that the Council of State has just stood and looked at the problems that are now coming up in front of her eyes. We are also amazed that the Council of State did not have the power to assess the complexity of removing the reasonableness conditions when this was proposed in due course to the Stortinget. There is a basis for saying that, in many cases, the foreign manager does not make adequate assessments of the child’s best interests. We have reason to say that because it is not apparent from the assessments in the individual decisions that have been taken. With our proposal today, we send a clear signal to the government that these assessments should be made in all cases, so that the best of the child and the vulnerability of the child are assessed separately.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e845	One claim that remains in the debate here is that we must avoid politicising asylum policy. However, there is full agreement that the asylum institution should be reserved for those who have the right to protection. Everyone also agrees that it should not be up to the Council of State or the Storting whether a person is allowed to stay or not. What is criticised by several batches today is not the individual assessment of the basis of residence, but the criteria and practices for these assessments — and it now appears that we are at risk of Norway breaking fundamental international law. What some of us also criticise is that children and adults are returned to Afghanistan — a country that the UN High Commissioner for Refugees considers to be unsafe — without any reassessment of the grounds for protection and without a reasonable assessment. In addition, we know that the UDI has wanted and recommended to limit the use of temporary residence for single asylum seekers, while the government has put down its feet, not in individual cases, but in the instructions for what to assess. The UDI believes that networks, resources and humanitarian and social situations in the home country should be given greater emphasis by returning unaccompanied minor asylum seekers than is currently the case. It's the government that doesn't want this, because of a political goal of sending a signal. Norway is not just one of many countries returning to Afghanistan. Norway has an Afghanistan practice that is among the most severe — if not the most severe — in Europe. According to the Norwegian asylum seeker organisation, the percentage of Afghan asylum seekers in Norway fell from 82 p.m. to 28 pst. from 2015 to 2016. So far in 2017 figures from the UDI show that Norway has a record low acceptance percentage for Afghans, only 25 pst. are granted residence. In comparison, 97 pst. by Afghans granted residence in Italy in 2016, 60.6 pst. in Germany and 46 pst. in Sweden, – versus 25 pst. in Norway. In addition, Norway has the most stringent return policy in Europe towards the Afghans. Of a total of 580 Afghans who were forced to return from Europe to Afghanistan in 2016, 410 were from Norway: 410 out of 580. We are also one of the few European countries that are returning children's families to Afghanistan, and we are the ones who are doing the most. The main reason is that Norway has removed the requirement for a reasonable assessment before an asylum seeker can be referred to internally, while this is a matter of course in all EU Member States. In addition, many EU countries are restrictive in referring to internal migration at all. Finally, I would just like to repeat that I hope that the Committee will examine thoroughly the draft representative from SV, Red and the Green Party on the Environment, as much of what is still unanswered about Norwegian practice can also be clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e858	The matter we are dealing with today is to correct an error from last year. There was an error that the Workers' Party and the Center Party were involved in and gave a mandate to the government to implement it. One removed the reasonableness condition, and then the number of temporary stays increased considerably. We'll put more people waiting to send them out when they're grown up. When the Center Party's Marit Arnstad then challenges the Christian People's Party and the Left on our cooperation with the government parties, it's time to remember that here we're talking about a matter where it's the Center Party that's been pulled backwards into the Bird Box of the Workers' Party during the night. So here I think the Central Party has more than enough to deal with itself considering that last week they said they wouldn't be able to stop any returns to Afghanistan, and now they're on the glide into that bird box. Honor be, it's good that there's a significant opposition in the Center Party that has a heart layer that goes beyond a year of failure. Today, we are deciding that we should introduce vulnerability criteria, which we really do not know what is, and which are actually at committee level. The four proposals that the Left has launched, which we are not promoting today, are at least going to be promoted in that committee reading. These include: proposals to reintroduce a requirement that it must be «reasonable» to refer an asylum seeker to internal migration in safe parts of the country of origin. We also ask the government to take the initiative to establish a common Nordic land information system. It was a bit of the debate that came to the wake of the Foreign Minister's statement last week: what is the emphasis on, and is it possible to coordinate resources and coordinate the country information of the Nordic countries? I am absolutely sure that is a debate in which the Nordic Council likes to be involved, and which may also be an efficient use of common resources, but which the Storting should decide on. It is well known that the Left will not have a temporary stay for lonely minors, so we will see if there is any willingness to move on. But then representatives from the government parties here also say that those who come are so resourceful. Why, then, do not the government parties spend anything in the draft government budget on trying to track these resource-intensive families and get voluntary returns? The Labour Party and the Central Party should also be involved in the debate: what are we offering those who are here before they go out, who serve both themselves and Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e871	Asylum policy must be predictable and not a mountain and valley policy, as the number of arrivals increases or decreases. After today's debate, I wonder whether the asylum policy of the Workers' Party is firm. I became in doubt when Martin Kolberg actually sends signals about liberalisation and uses terms like ‘moral’. But the concern in this case is that we get the matter over the table, a kind of emergency treatment. No, the right does not advise a broad debate, as the representative of Lauvås gave the impression, but what we do not want is an urgent procedure. We want a debate after the matter has been in committee, we have been at the hearing, and we get an assessment of the various proposals. This is a thorough debate. If the Workers' Party had thought that the policy that has been pursued is irresponsible – as I understood the representative Lauvås say – why not worldwide do the Workers' Party propose an ordinary Document 8 proposal? The size has been in session for over a month. Why in the world is this five at twelve, almost in a night hour? For me, it just tastes like panic. I am really most concerned about the hopes now given to those who have been rejected, and who are now to be reconsidered, according to criteria that we really do not know. It is probably celebrated by someone today, but I think it is all the worse for some of those who get rejected again. It's going to be giving these extra loads. To the representative Lysbakken, who thought that my scientific knowledge was failing, I would say that in terms of instructions, the department has always had the opportunity to instruct UDI. I guess the ministry doesn't have the habit of getting to Stortinget every time they give UDI an instruction. In the asylum agreement, we have also given the department the opportunity to instruct the foreign student. What I mean is that when the Storting is going to go into the individual instructions and add the leads, it's a breach.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e882	In the last few days of the debate, I remembered a matter from when I was a newly elected big business representative in 2005. A lone minor asylum seeker in my municipality was to leave Norway after four years, despite an ongoing civil war in his country. The municipality went to trial against the state and lost at all instances. The basis for the request was claims that the best of the child was not taken into account, that it was contrary to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the recommendations of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. The process lasted for several years, and the municipality repeatedly gave the boy false hopes. The matter took place in the media for years, and it was striking to read that all the issues raised by the matter are identical to what we are discussing today. The Workers' Party's Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who was the responsible State Council at the time, responded the same time as the answers given now. So this is a problem that we've been dealing with for years. Immigration regulatory considerations, the focus on protection needs and the signals sent to other parents were also governing at that time. There is a great difference between refugees and other migrants. In order to preserve the institution of asylum and to maintain the capacity to receive people with a need for protection, we need to maintain the need for protection as an important criterion. This is and has always been the position of the Progress Party, and the reason for this eternal discussion is, of course, that this is not the view of all parties. What I have always missed in this debate is that we are not more concerned with the practice of sending children around half the globe alone. Everyone agrees that most people will have a better life in Norway, and most people probably agree that it is brutal to send back someone who has spent so much money and risked both life and health to get to Norway. But I, who followed the case in my own municipality during the first decade of 2000, was also at the time concerned with the importance of not encouraging more parents to use the small things they had, to expose their own children to such dangers. So it goes with the story that you never found the parents of this boy either, but he was sent back to civil war. Other European countries have not stopped sending to Afghanistan and a thorough assessment of the safety that has recently been reviewed here in Norway. The Progress Party will not claim to have more knowledge of the situation in Afghanistan than the professional communities that are set to take these assessments, and we will therefore not be involved in putting such matters relating to Afghanistan on a ‘hold’ basis now. History has shown us that it is demanding for people to continue to be given false hopes, and that the signal effect must not be underestimated.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e901	Nearly a week ago, the Stortinget received two detailed statements on the situation in Afghanistan and the assessments made by the Directorate of Foreign Affairs in connection with the return to Afghanistan by those who are initially lone minor asylum seekers and who are only returned when they reach the age of 18. It was a subsequent debate, and there was also a clarification from both the Labour Party and the Central Party that they would not vote in favour of the SV's proposals for urgent procedure in Stortinget. It was not very eye-catching in itself, as proposals had already been submitted on the same topic for ordinary treatment in Stortinget. You could ask yourself, what's happened? What has happened during these days that has led both the Workers' Party and the Centre's party now – only late last night and with a clarification today early – to promote their own proposals for immediate treatment and decisions in the Storting without prior proceedings, without prior committee procedure, and without ensuring the predictability and good practice of which I thought the Workers' Party in particular was concerned? The representative of Lauvås said that now it was imperative, but he did not elaborate why it was imperative. But at least it was important to criticise the Progress Party because we have pointed out what could be the consequences of the policy changes that are now due to the implementation of the Stortinge, and that the majority of the Stortinge joins. It must be allowed to point out that political decisions may have some negative consequences, also based on historical facts. It is true that the proposals that are now likely to receive a majority in the Stortinget – the proposals of the Workers' Party – can lead to longer proceedings, and they can give many people false hopes. And it's a paradox that the Centre Party, which has tried to profile itself on a strict immigration policy, chooses to support this political change from the Workers' Party. What is really being done is to change the legislation. This means that the predictability of management changes. The legislation enforced by the administration today is, of course, based on a majority in the United Kingdom. Changing the legislation also changes predictability, and that means, in reality, overcoming what the administration bases its individual decisions on. Then, of course, one can nuance what the real consequences of the proposals to the Workers' Party are. In any case, it will create a changed situation, and we will have a change in the asylum policy without a thorough procedure and committee procedure in Stortinget. It's very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e918	The representative of Aasrud was concerned for a long time about strong growth in the number of temporary permits for lone minors. Then the question is, why in the world has there not been an ordinary treatment? The Contracting Party has already submitted a proposal there, ready for comitology. The representative, Lauvås, was concerned that he felt it would be difficult to get the bulk of the population against him. For my part, I find it more worrying that the Workers' Party now seems to be moving towards SV's asylum policy. For the country, I'm worried about it. So to the representative Gahr Støre: As for the instructions that are pointed out here as the big problem, we have looked at how many of the temporary permits came after this instruction was given in March of this year. That's over 130. During the period from 1 October until this instruction was given, it is approx. 400 provisional authorisations. It's okay to bring it with you now when you think that this is the instruction that's the problem. The further question is, What changes will you make? What I understand from what the representative Gahr Støre says – and he is the only one who has commented on what changes you are looking for – is that there should be more emphasis on which network you have in your home country. I underline "greater weight". I have not heard that someone has said that you should give decisive attention to it. I have also not registered that someone believes that there should be a difference between 16-year-olds and 17-year-olds, but that an individual treatment should be taken into account. These things are important to me to be clear to me in the follow-up to this decision. Furthermore, it is interesting to know: how many temporary permits can you live with? How many are too many? It's not like you can set an allowance on how many temporary permits you have to give, but it's interesting to hear what's acceptable, and what's not. I believe that when the Labour Party is in favour of liberalisation, as this is, it must actually do so. And when the representative Kolberg gives us a lesson in morals, I would like to ask if it's moral first of all to be occupied with those who have the resources to get to Norway, while you forget the rest, and when you know that by reducing the arrivals to Norway, we can help the neighbourhoods more. It's actually like last year we could give another half billion dollars, because there were few, to Syria's neighbourhoods. This is related. Moral for me is to be able to help as much as possible, not just those we see here and now, and not those who do not have the right to protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e931	I think, unfortunately, that very few are left very enlightened after this debate. We had expected that there would be clear boundaries and clear clarifications from the proposers in the various parties about what this means. Unfortunately, that has not happened. But no matter how the Workers' Party and the Center try to get away and blame others, this is ultimately about wanting to soften up. It is about the fact that several of them that a broad majority see as groundless today, without need for protection, will be able to stay in Norway with new policies. This allows people to stay for more people without any need for protection. That is what the Progress Party has pointed out. It's actively undermining the asylum institute. For the international community, agreements have not created an asylum institution to hit them with a weaker network or with a lack of resources. Asylum was to be given to those who were persecuted. To the extent that clarifications have been made, it has come to the conclusion that these are not the cases. There is a lack of resources, and there is a lack of networks. There is a complete disagreement between the Party of Advancement. It is a bit striking that the Workers' Party itself does not know the scope of its own proposal. When we point to the consequences, when we say that the signals are sent to Afghanistan that now more people can stay without protection, it is our fault that this happens – not those who promote and adopt the proposals. It is a disclaimer that lacks parallel. I understand very well that Councillor Listhaug has major problems knowing what to do, because it is said that vulnerability should be assessed more than today. Then we point out that vulnerability is being assessed today, and then the others say that it's okay. Then we have to conclude that there is nothing new in the proposal and that we can then continue as before. But neither will they. This debate has surprised even me – as a completely new representative – very much. I thought we had a much more thorough process in Stortinget before we adopt things that could have unimaginable consequences. The proposers are not even able to explain what they want to adopt. When it becomes immoral for the Workers' Party to stand for a policy that was moral last week, chaos becomes complete. Then I'm a little happy that I'm not the Council of State right now. But now they have to get on the track with clear signals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e945	I note that the representative of Greece is pleased that the Council of State and the Advancement Party are very predictable – we can probably have a long discussion about that – and believe that we are unpredictable. The representative of Greece now strongly defends the views of the Progress Party and the position of the Progress Party in the asylum debate. Right-wing abstinence in asylum and immigration policy. It must be painful for many in the Right. I hope at least that's it, when that's what we're standing here and hearing that the Right actually does. I also record that the representative of Greece has a lot of good advice to come to all other parties – including the Workers' Party – but to the Progress Party it only lies. So to Mr. Örmen Johnsen, who believes this to be irresponsible, because she wants a committee hearing. I invite her here and now to come up to this pulpit and give us an overview of what the Right would change in a committee hearing – at least give us a direction on which of these proposals Right would be included in a committee discussion. It might have been very interesting if the representative Mrs. Örmen Johnsen could explain a little what they could find in support if this had come to committee. I think I will answer myself: the right had not been on anything, for the right continues the logging of the Progress Party in asylum policy. So it's going to be that way. The representatives from the Right would like to correct me, if I have given the wrong answer. The Labour Party is faced with a strict, fair and humane asylum policy, and I note that the representative, Engen-Helgheim, continues to give wrong signals about asylum and immigration policy to a broad majority in the Stortinget. I say it again: he has to be kind and stop it, because it's going to be wrong. Finally, to the Council of State Listhaug: Today she goes on a click, and she has run you herself.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e958	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that it seems to be supporting the proposals we have submitted in the Chamber today. That's good for the case. It is good because the Storting clearly shows that they do not accept the way a settlement in Stortinget has been managed. I only have reason to remind the assembly that we are not proposing changes to the law. We're on the verge, but we're not satisfied with the way Listhaug has managed the deal. Listhaug has had unlimited powers from Stortinget to instruct the administration, and when it is said from others here today that the legislation we now have is based on a majority in Stortinget, the instructions given to the administration do not apply. The instruction given to the administration limits the discretion of the administration to use paragraphs to provide humanitarian residence, in such a way that we feel it is not proper. Today, we are asking for that rate to be adjusted. I am a little surprised by those who are concerned that they have not been properly involved in this matter. It's a little hard to understand Right-Earth Johnsen, because it could seem that if only this matter had been to the committee, maybe the Right could have agreed to make some changes. It is very exciting to follow this matter in the committee, because it is a selection of proposals that have been sent there. We look forward to hearing about the change in the right course in the committee, because there will be a good opportunity to bring it. We heard Höres Helleland tell what we were good at in Norway. We were world champions in both the one and the other. Greece forgot a significant point and that is that Norway is the world champion of forced return to Afghanistan. It wasn't on the show list for Helleland. As I said, we want matters to be reviewed on the basis of known vulnerability criteria, but we want those criteria to be given greater emphasis in the management's work on matters, as stated in the proposal. We expect the UDI to be able to do that job quite soon, because in the budget, the Council of State has added up to 6,000 arrivals to Norway, with procedural capacity to do so. We've heard that the government has recently said that only 3,000 are coming. This means that there is plenty of capacity to implement the procedure very quickly. Until such time as this has been done, matters should be brought to an end until the cases have been re-examined. That's the mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e973	I belong to the group that thought this had been a very strange and very little clarifying debate. I have not been any more wiser in this debate today, and I still have a great deal of questions about what is the criterion of affordability and vulnerability, and what is to be changed in connection with this. The representative of the Labour Party, Mr Lauvås, is calling for a halt to those who need it the most, but the debate is actually showing something else. The representative, Asphjell, says that the Labour Party does not change the policy, but I cannot see any other consequence of the debate today than that the policy should actually be changed. It is strange to hear this debate when you want to focus on more individual needs related to your network and vulnerability – as if not assessed today. Is it so to understand that the Labour Party now actually thinks that we should send out minors under the age of 18 if they have a good network and that vulnerability criteria in a way say this would go well? Today, there's a strict practice, and that's what makes us maybe have a lot of people under 18 who sit here for a while. I have a question for the Labour Party: Does the Labour Party believe that this change in policy, as it actually is, will make us fewer who come to Norway and get temporary suspension, or will we get more? It might be nice to get an analysis of what they think about their own policies, and what consequences they will have. Those in temporary detention in Norway could probably have done much more to prepare people for a better return, so that they were much stronger on the day they were actually sent home. I am involved in a good debate on what we can offer these young people, but to ease the legislation in a two-hour debate in the Chamber today, which has not brought us any further, I just don't think things are going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e990	Like the one in the room with the longest state council experience, I sympathize with Sylvi Listhaug. It's hard to be a councillor. One shall interpret the decisions of the Storting, comments, debates. One shall relate to the changing society around it. It's demanding. What's fine is that it's a volunteer job. One may stop being a State Council if one seems to be too difficult. But I can inform Sylvi Listhaug that so far there is no conflict between a government council and the majority of the population ended up with the Stortinget going. It is the basic duty of a State Council to try to implement the policy adopted by the Storting. Usually, if you don’t control it, you end up in that job. In the 2018 budget, it is estimated that 6 000 asylum seekers will arrive in 2018. UDI's figure after the budget has been completed is that it's going to be 3,000. If all those who get their cases reviewed get to be, that leads to a decline of only 45 pst. instead of 50 pst. in relation to the initial estimate in the budget. My question to the Council of State is: How much more does the asylum flow to Norway have to go down in order for the Council of State to feel that it is sound? It is not these 200-300 young people who decide whether or not Norwegian asylum policy is firm, whether or not it is predictable, whether or not there is broad consensus. On the contrary, there are many in Stortinget who feel that the changes we made in the agreement had this consequence, something the council had failed to inform the Storting about, which was unknown to Stortinget when this decision was made. The instruction that was given was also unknown to Stortinget when these comparisons were concluded. Now Storting corrects this to get a more predictable policy in line with what we adopted. Some of the proposals were not adopted when Listhaug promoted them. Then Listhaug predicted that it would lead to a new stream of refugees. It was a false prediction. Why should we be more confident that the predictions she now brings that 200-300 get their cases reviewed should lead to an increased flow? It's hard to relate to. The Labour Party believes that it is good for Norway to have a broad consensus on asylum and immigration policy. The Council of State which has been set up to manage this makes it difficult to have such a broad consensus. She misinterprets, misinterprets, misinforms, so that she actually undermines the possibility of such a broad consensus. It's a shame, because the Storting needs such a broad consensus, and I hope the Council of State can follow it up. If not, the Storting must at some point ask whether you are served with a government council that undermines the possibility of broad consensus.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e1003	The centre party stands firm on the asylum settlement, even though some here in the hall are trying to create the impression of something else. This is not a rematch on the asylum settlement, this is just a clarification that we do not accept that the assumptions made by the Stortinget for the asylum settlement are being set aside. The assumption that the threshold for humanitarian stay should not be lowered has not been followed up by the Council of State. We took the initiative in an asylum settlement because we want a predictable policy. Unfortunately, the government has not followed it up. The changes we are adopting today are just a clarification that the assumptions are to be followed up, and that we do not accept that instructions are given that are contrary to what was the Storting assumption. So the left was up and said something like that the center part was dragged backwards into the bird box of the Workers' Party. We're not at all. The centre party shall take its decisions and decisions on its own initiative. Yesterday evening, the Central Party signaled that it was not appropriate for us to agree to the wording contained in proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox There was a statement that matters had to be put to rest. This morning another proposal was made that it should not be implemented. We also thought that this was too bad. The final proposal, which is now clear that it should not be implemented until this vulnerability assessment has been carried out, is a proposal on which the Centre Party can participate. Because there's a lot of management capacity. The administration has the knowledge they need to carry this out, and it is up to the Council of State and the administration to give priority and take the first items that are the first items to be returned. This is something that can be implemented quickly and should not be a major challenge for management. Everyone's going to stay, someone's going to claim. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The whole principle of the institution of asylum is that those who are allowed to stay and those who are refused, even after the vulnerability has been assessed, should be returned quickly. It's incredibly important. Engen-Helgheim said that this with vulnerability was to turn open the doors. The list pile followed up with these assessments being made today. If both of these statements are correct, this must be very simple, because then it is only to carry out the assessment and make it visible and confirm that that assessment has been made. But if it's not true that it's being done today, I realize that there might be more uncertainty about what to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e1016	The representative, Lauvås, said we're going on a click. It is tempting for us outsiders to say that it looks as if the management of the Workers' Party has gone on a click, and that you are being led by the asylum uprising that has been going on, where SV has led. There has been a turnaround in a few days. So to the representative Aasrud's post. She says things have to be put to rest. Now it's like these matters that are referred to here have been processed. For this reason, I believe that what is meant is that one should stop because of the transportation of these people who are going to have their cases reviewed – adult men who are going to be assessed in accordance with a single minor legislation. The second is these vulnerability criteria. I haven't heard anyone argue that what you mean here is that there should be more emphasis, that there should not be any decisive emphasis on these criteria. I have not heard anyone who has said that there should be a difference between 16 and 17 years. Then I assume that's what you mean in this room. Then to the representative Giske. I believe that in the long period that he has been the Council of State, he has never experienced a lack of procedure in these kinds of cases. There are no comments that can be interpreted, and that is why I have been very concerned about getting clarification from this speaker from the proposers on what is in the proposal. Now I have myself put forward some points on what I interpret from what has been said from this pulpit. It is also the case that what was warned against in connection with the contractions was that we would get a very large degree of family reunification to Norway. You see from the numbers that it's very high and that it's going to stay high in the years that are coming. It is a fact that we have received and given residence to almost 80,000 people in Norway only since 2012 — refugees and family reunited for refugees. We have huge challenges to succeed in integrating. Before that period, there were also many. That is why this is about the sustainability of our welfare model and what legislation and what signal we are going to send out. These young people may not be the ones who roll the load from time to time, but it will send a signal that Norway is softening, and that is what I am concerned about. So you can't say that we're not going to say that's what you're doing. You have to make your choices when you choose to change the law as you do now. But after this rather confusing debate, I'm going to do my best to follow up what I think after this debate is the intention of the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e1031	The immigration and asylum policies of the Labour Party are strict, fair and humane. The proposals we have to make today relate to a limited group of single minor asylum seekers, i.e. those who have been shown to be internally displaced. We suggest, among other things: more emphasis on the assessment of a lack of networks and/or resources than one has today. It's not that hard to understand. Then we also suggest removing an instruction that reduces the concern for the lack of networks and resources. It's not that hard to understand either. So we see that the Progress Party and the Right make a point because they don't understand this. It doesn't really make us do anything about it. I can only say that the Storting's plural understands that and after everything to judge joins this today. That's good. In that case, there is a necessary correction of a Council of State and a government that has thinned the limits of the Storting's will in its instructions of the underlying establishment. We have also heard today that the proposals of the Labour Party are a liberalisation, while they open doors, and at the same time they are not intelligible. That criticism is quite schizophrenic, even to the Progress Party to be. It's not possible – I don't want to say even to the ears of the party – to liberalize, open doors and be incomprehensible at the same time. It's almost a task that's too big for us. So the Progress Party -- and the Right -- doesn't seem to know which legs they're going to stand on. They present a criticism of the Labour Party for the sake of criticism. It is not worth a party that claims to take responsibility for the country. Then the opposition does it when it needs to. We have also understood from this debate today that for the Progress Party, the success criterion for immigration and asylum legislation is that the number of people arriving in Norway is less than possible. For the Labour Party, the success criterion for a well-functioning immigration and asylum legislation is, of course, that we have control of our borders, but also that those who are entitled to a suspension are allowed to be transported out, and not least that the very most vulnerable of those who come here are given a specific assessment of their vulnerability.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e1044	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e1049	The most important thing we do today is take some time, and I hope that time we spend well. Because, as the representative Tajik was involved, there is confusion in many parties here. I must have an explanation of vote, because the Left will vote for all the seven proposals at the end, despite my scepticism about the proposals. 4, 5, 6 -- and that's just the concern that we're leading into something that's going to be hard to interpret. The working party wants to increase internal mobility, i.e. more out, but by introducing a kind of vulnerability criteria that we currently strictly do not know what is involved. For the Left, the aim is to reintroduce the reasonableness conditions. There are much clearer criteria for who should be and not. I hope we have not seen a demonstration of power today that will cover only approx. 10 persons. It's not worth the Big Thing. There may be a questioning at a transport stage, but that's when the climb begins, and it also has to join the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e1058	I think this really has been a good debate, and I think the end is now beginning to resemble what it should be. We hear a state council say that she is being assigned to interpret a decision in Stortinget. I am of those who believe that it will be the Council of State to do excellent, and that she has an office and an administration that will help her with it. It's been about reverse operations here. Let me just say for the Labour Party: last week we said no to a total stop of the transport of all to Afghanistan. We have made proposals on vulnerability criteria. It was in our national meeting decision, it is in committee. What we are presenting today is something the environment should have known, if they were to attend our national meeting – I think many did – in April. So that's the consistency of what we're doing now. Back to the case. This is not a liberalisation of asylum policy. Assessment of whether you are entitled to a stay is permanent. But that's what my colleague Marit Arnstad said, a clarification of the agreement. It is to take due account of the most vulnerable and to emphasise it to a greater extent. I think the Council of State has had many opportunities to clarify it. So the question comes: how many are going to get temporary? We don't specify such a percentage, but we're going to see that it's gone from 5 pst. up to 40-50 pst. We're a little worried about it and we've done it this way to make sure it's handled in a responsible way. Then I – I will be ironic – will recognise the figures of the Progress Party. It's a real product, it's a clean profile. There is a strong use of words in this matter that marks the party's positions. They're going to recognize. When we want to have an expanded judgement in the assessment of the most vulnerable, we are told that there will have untold consequences for Norway. On the right, I'm more surprised. They agree that they benefit not only from politics, but also – in a modest way – from rhetoric. I think that is striking in this debate. Let me then add one thing that also surprises me, at the end. That is the following: I have seen it so that the Left and Christian People's Party will vote subsidiaryly for our proposals, but where was the Left and Christian People's Party in this debate? The representative, Kjeseth, has made contributions, and there was one post from the Christian People's Party, but I think it's strange that when we have the first big, really comprehensive, debate on asylum in this room in really half a year, the two parties are almost absent. I also understand that, because there are two parties that either maybe have one leg on their way into government, or they have settlements and government negotiations. But it says something about what that tight company really wants to say for a profile. Our suggestions are referenced, they're taken up in the hall, and I hope they'll get a majority. Then we will be able to assist in good dialogue with the government so that they are interpreted correctly, in a way that is worthy of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e1075	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e1081	The background to the proposal under consideration is the fact that all reports, including Landinfos, show that Afghanistan has become more dangerous. Then the government, which has political responsibility, has tightened up in such a way that it is judged to be safe. The Stortinget must then take responsibility for the correctness of the threshold for these assessments. That is what SV wanted to take the initiative, and we are pleased that more people now see the need to adjust the course. The authorizations for tightening up without the approval of the Storting were all parties, except SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens, at the back. Now I think the parties have been contemplating. That is why I hope that these powers can be removed during the process that the Municipal Committee is now going to have, and that we can go through all of these points, so that we actually ensure that Norway does not return any to the risk of persecution and danger.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e1088	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e1100	The size is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e1109	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Ketil Kjenseth on behalf of Left the proposals No 4-7, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party The President will first refer to the Innst. 487 S for 2016-2017 on amendments to the second paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted by the Stortinget on 21 June of this year. The amendment implies that voting in the case of drafts of representatives will now normally be based on the adoption or non- adoption of proposals, and thus not annexed to the minutes. Then to the representative proposal of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal has not been dealt with in committee and therefore has no vote. The very proposal for a representative is considered to be the most extensive and will therefore be voted on first. The other proposals are then put to the vote. The proposal in Document 8:56 for 2017-2018 reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to immediately stop all assisted return and forced return of asylum seekers to Afghanistan until the Stortinget has dealt with and taken decisions on Document 8:47 S. [[2017-2018]] The Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e1144	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to immediately stop forced return to Afghanistan of asylum seekers under 18 years of age on arrival in Norway until the Stortinget has dealt with and taken decisions on Document 8:47 S. [[2017-2018]] The Left, the Christian People's Party, the Greens and the Reds have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e1163	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to immediately stop forced return to Afghanistan of asylum seekers who were lone minors on arrival in Norway until the Stortinget has dealt with and taken decisions on Document 8:47 S. [[2017-2018]] The Left, the Christian People's Party, the Greens and the Reds have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e1182	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to put an immediate stop to the forced return to Afghanistan, of asylum seekers who were lone minors when they came to the country and who are still staying here, until the Grand Duchy has dealt with and taken decisions concerning Document 8:47 S. [[2017-2018]] The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e1201	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the Government to repeal GI-02/2017 – Instructions on the practice of the Foreign Affairs Act § 38, cf. Section 8-8 — Single minor asylum seekers between 16 and 18 years of age who may be referred to internship.» The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal. The Left and Red have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e1221	There was an error in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e1226	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e1238	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure, as soon as possible, that the lack of caregivers, networks and/or resources to establish themselves in the field of internal migration is relevant in assessing whether, in the case of unaccompanied minor asylum-seekers, ordinary authorisation should be granted under Section 38 of the Foreign Affairs Act.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal. The Left and Red have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e1257	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all cases with decisions taken from 1 October 2016 until today relating to lone minor asylum seekers referred to internally displaced persons who have received temporary residence are re-evaluated. Instructions GI-02/2017 – Instructions on the practice of the Foreign Affairs Act § 38, cf. Paragraphs 8 to 8 – Single, minor asylum seekers between 16 and 18 years of age who may be referred to internal migration are deleted with effect for the assessment of these cases. The amendment that the lack of caregivers, networks and/or resources to establish themselves in the field of internal migration should have an impact on the assessment of whether, in the case of lone minor asylum seekers, ordinary authorisation under Section 38 of the Foreign Affairs Act is to be granted, shall have an effect on the assessment of these matters.» The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal. The Left and Red have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e1276	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that all cases with decisions taken from 1 October 2016 until now relating to lone minor asylum seekers referred to in the case of an internal refugee who have received a temporary stay shall not be put into effect until the cases have been re-examined.’; The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-14.ana.ud258e1338	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? So it doesn't seem, and the meeting is cancelled.
