ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e42	The representatives Jenny Klinge and Ketil Kjeseth, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The called alternate for Oslo, Grunde Almeland, is now taking its seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e64	The representative, Mr Tvedt Solberg, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e69	I will, on behalf of Martin Henriksen, Leif Audun Sande, Nina Sandberg and myself, promote a proposal for a representative to introduce the practical school bag for pupils in high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e74	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that today's Storting meeting be suspended at 0 p.m. 13.45 for The Storting's Christmas ounce. Furthermore, the President will propose that the meeting be resumed at 9 p.m. 15.30 and continues until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e97	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e113	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the debate will be divided into two sections to deal first with the budget chapters of the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation: common and minority policies, public administration, privacy and housing policies, transfer to municipalities and district and regional policies and then the budget chapters of the Ministry of Justice and Security: immigration and integration. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that each part of the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that part 1 and part 2 of the debate – within the allocated speaking time – be given the opportunity to exchange lines of up to three lines with replies from the main figures of the parties and five lines with replies from members of the government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e130	First, I would like to thank the Committee and the Secretariat for their good cooperation on this position. For SV, these budgetary frameworks are perhaps one of the most important priorities, because this is about the community, about having a local government sector that is capable of caring for every child and ensuring the security of the elderly and the disadvantaged, about having a housing policy that allows people to live safely in their own homes, and about having a government administration that ensures proper development in terms of equality and equal pay, but that also actively contributes to the green shift. So these are important things for SV. Therefore, SV also prioritises these areas with much more money than the government does. For example, we want to strengthen housing policy strongly, both housing for the disadvantaged and not least housing support, which has lost considerable value in recent years. The bank says that this happens because you have not taken back the delay that hangs again from approx. 2010 and that the different elements of housing support have not been adjusted, so that many now come out. So there's 50,000 fewer people now getting housing support, sailing if we're more than 100,000 more people in the country, many are poor and housing costs are increasing. Therefore, SV proposes to improve housing support and wants a majority to do so. The municipal sector deals with many of the most important issues in people's lives. It's about the many, and not the few. Therefore, SV prioritises strengthening the municipal economy by 5.7 billion. kr, so that there can be enough staff in the care of the elderly, enough teachers in school, enough child-restraint workers and also enough for new initiatives. We are also strongly attached to the fact that the municipalities are to carry out these services seagoing. That's because money that's been allocated to, for example. the protection of children, and because those employed in the care of the elderly and in the protection of children deserve the salaries and pensions of the public sector. This is very important in the future when we are going to recruit and keep a number of new, capable employees in these important sectors. So SV's school effort, SV's senior education effort and SV's child protection effort are in our municipal economy. I would like to mention specifically the investment in psychiatry. In health, there is a commitment to emergency services for young people of 178 million. kr. In the municipal sector, we're proposing 200 million. D to a new escalation plan for lowthreshold services in psychiatry. We're doing this because it's absolutely necessary. We know that many people are struggling, including young people, that it takes too long to get in, and that once you've been treated, you get too little help. We have to look at this together with our efforts at child protection and the school health service, where we are earmarking our efforts because we believe that if the Great Britain and the Government promise to invest in these areas, we have to be absolutely sure that there will be investment in these areas. In addition to that, we strengthen important schemes such as user-driven personal assistance, with which we know there are problems in very many municipalities, as well as the system of particularly resource-intensive services. In the area of child protection, we want a new system of state co-financing for municipalities that have particularly high child protection costs, and those municipalities are unfortunately part of it. They need to have the opportunity to hire enough people who can stand in the job for more than four to five years. Unfortunately, many places now, it's too demanding. Then the municipalities have to have the finances to employ enough qualified employees. I would then like to mention the suggestions in the vote to which SV is co-sponsored, except for proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e149	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e156	The municipalities had a lower municipal economy when SV put in government. Now they claim that they will strengthen the economic space, yet they will deprive the municipalities of freedom of action. It may look like SV has not understood that values must be created before they can be shared. With SV's proposal, it becomes less valuable. 9 B.C.E. kr in increased taxes on wealth is a direct attack on Norwegian ownership of business. They increase car charges, a direct attack on the inhabitants of the districts. They cut the private child protection, an offer to those who need it the most. They cut petroleum-related research, an attack on Norwegian workplaces. They cut hundreds of millions of consultants, a direct attack on modernisation and innovation in the public sector. How can SV believe that they provide a good financial framework when they go so hard to work against the value creation here in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e163	I wish that the Right would have begun to take an interest in e.g.. the analyses carried out by the OECD, which show that Norway had made a great deal of money to distribute better and increase taxes to those with high incomes, those who should be able to cope, and rather increase assistance to those who have difficulties, as SV do. Then there are more people who want to make it, and we want to create more. To date, the right has not been able to provide a single proof that the tax laws proposed and passed through lead to jobs. On the contrary, they are dissimilar and contribute to the fact that we do not have the money to finance the well-being of the entire business community. Our approach, in sum, will provide a much better starting point for economic value creation for all in society. In addition, it will provide tax relief for all persons with income below NOK 600 000.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e170	I noticed that the representative said it was particularly important that the municipalities carry out their services themselves, and lately SV has gone very far in attacking anything that might be similar to private operators in the municipality. I think back on the kindergarten agreement, which SV and the Progress Party drove forward, where it was important to treat both public and private providers in a non-discriminatory manner in order to achieve a goal that more people would have a kindergarten. Several municipalities received full child care coverage with the policy, which proved to work very well. I wonder why it was possible to base the childcare arrangement on non-discrimination between public and private providers, when it is non-existent in all other areas of public administration and service provision. What is it that separates kindergartens from everything else in SV's eyes? I wonder.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e175	The whole starting point for the question is wrong, because SV does not have anything against private individuals who are involved in the welfare. What we have in mind is profit. When the nursery agreement was concluded, there were very many private kindergartens, but they were largely parent-driven and non-profit-driven. It was because the municipalities had not built kindergartens, and then the parents had to start themselves. Today, the large international group buys up these kindergartens, and it is also those who care for children and care for the elderly. These are international investment funds that have largely also invested in tax havens, so they don't contribute to the fissure layer, but take money out of the fissure layer. In addition, they contribute to the risk that employees, the heroes of care, may fall into wages and, at least, into pensions. It doesn't want SV. SV wants a good employer policy, so that you can recruit and keep good people, and so that we spend the money for the purpose for which we have granted the tax money.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e180	The SV and the Left share much of the view on social responsibility, early efforts and the importance of municipalities in the first line in the public sector. Health sisters, midwife services and psychologists are important in the municipalities, but we all agree that there have been too few. In 2013, after SV had been in government for eight years, there were 13 health sisters in Norway. Now, after five budgets with a civil majority, almost one billion more have been allocated, and there are over 500 more health sisters, midwives and psychologists, without earmark. What was wrong with the red-green government when one went down in number and not up?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e187	The experience of that time is what makes us want ear tagging in these areas. We started with it at the very end of our period just because we were betting that when you put money on the table, it would be a bet on it. So it didn't. I'm glad you've now increased the number, but it should just be missing with the bet that has been. So SV wants us to label the bets in these areas, so there's going to be an increase in the number in all municipalities, because that's not the case. It is true that young people who need help can also live in those municipalities where they do not receive this help today, whether from school health services, from child protection or from, for example, children’s protection. lowthreshold psychiatry services. SV put the money on the table, also so that it is possible to see what the state is contributing to these investments, so that it is not just a responsibility for the municipalities to fulfil all the good wishes of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e194	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e200	Digitalisation and automation characterise our everyday lives. We meet it every day. New products and solutions challenge and provide opportunities. This is essentially positive, but it's also challenging. We have to work in new ways, and it's demanding for many to learn the new. In Norway, we are advanced in the use of technological solutions, and all the opportunities that come will require a lot of those who are at work. This is happening in all industries, and the public sector is also marked to a large extent. Tasks can be solved in new ways, cheaper and better, but it doesn't matter. Interactions between levels of government and agencies make great demands on organisation, and it is not free of charge. Therefore, it is surprising that the government’s press release on ICT betting in the public sector shows lower appropriations for 2018 than the Stoltenberg government submitted for 2014. This year, too, the Workers' Party in its alternative state budget has significantly more money for digitisation than the government has. We strengthen the co-financing mechanism and funds directed at the use of ICT solutions by municipalities. We believe it is necessary to invest before it can be cut. We're proposing 430 million. This is essential in today’s Norway, including for the public sector and for the interaction between public authorities and citizens. Conversion and digitisation require increased competence. The skills you have need to be renewed through your professional life. We therefore propose a reform of competence for lifelong learning and a pilot project such as: include care for the elderly in two counties. The public sector must rely more on the competence of its employees. We therefore believe that there must be a reform of trust. Less time has to be spent on measurement and reporting, and what is measured has to be assessed more according to societal benefits and outcomes than by number and processes. The municipal sector is the foundation of our welfare system. Systematic use of new technologies allows money to be released for new tasks. There is a great responsibility on the state to contribute to that. However, the local government sector cannot meet the future without giving it greater priority in the budgets. It is strange that government parties say in their comments that the budget facilitates the strengthening of services in municipalities – a government budget that is at best a zero budget for the sector, and which also proposes changes in property taxes that amount to over 1 billion. kr i minus. I don't think the efforts of the Left and Christian People's Party to compensate for half feel like a victory for those municipalities that now have to adapt their economic plans to halved incomes. What surprises me most in this year's municipal planning is the lack of attention around the care of the elderly. I hope the Progress Party in today's debate can explain why care for the elderly is no longer part of the priority. 300 million. kr in additional expenditure of resource-intensive users will directly contribute to the municipal health and care budget. With $300 million. kr less does not improve services for the elderly. The budget negotiations resulted in an exodus of 295 million. kr for the supporting lots. The left proposed using 2.6 billion in its alternative budget. kr more for the local government sector. So it ended up at 295 million. kr. The Workers' Party has proposed to strengthen the municipal framework by 3 billion. kr, in addition to proposals to strengthen other sector grants by nearly 1 billion. kr. We do it because we want to develop the welfare of the municipal sector, not build it down. We who read local guides see that there is a long way between municipalities that report that they are strengthening the services. The municipalities are cutting, and they're building down. What I think is most problematic about the government's use of words in terms of municipalities is that it is presented as a municipal budget that provides opportunities for new solutions. That's not how it's felt around in the country's municipal government halls. It does not strengthen local democracy. Local politicians disagree between government expectations and lack of money. It must be allowed to ask: what is the bet on a living local democracy, which the government parties mention in their comments? Are those the coercion decisions they're thinking of?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e225	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e230	The working party has a rather imaginative history when they paint the situation in Kommune-Norway. The truth is that the development of the local economy has been better with the Right in Government than it was with the Labour Party. In 2016, municipalities had the strongest operating result in 10 years. But the Workers' Party has a proud tradition of interfering in well-functioning private markets, and so will they in the housing market. The Labour Party intends to use the Husbank so that, with a few years of saving, ordinary youth, who can realize the housing dream, will get their equity at the risk of the State. If the Workers' Party has its will, then young people must snuck in front of those who need it the most, and the House Bank must operate as an ordinary bank on completely different conditions than other banks. My question to the Workers' Party is then: Why does the Workers' Party want private banks to have strict equity requirements, but that ordinary people should receive their equity from the House Bank?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e237	There are two errors in the question that are being asked. The growth under the red-green government was 2.5 pst. from 2006 to 2013. From 2014 to 2018, the growth is estimated to be 1.9 pst. So the local economy was 0.6 percentage points better under the red-green government than under the blue-blue government. The same is true if you look at the free income. This is largely due to the fact that it is the last two years that the Right has a terrible mischief in the municipality. So to the question. The query provider is wrong. The working party has never thought that it is young people to be covered by the start-up loan. The initial loan shall be granted to those outside the market for which the private financing is made. It is clear from the start-up loan scheme in the House Bank that those who are disadvantaged, those who do not have the opportunity to enter the private loan market, are the ones we are going to meet. Clearly, it is clear that young people do not belong to that priority group.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e244	We can hear it being spoken, on the in and out of breath, about a terrible mischief in the municipality. In the comments of the Labour Party we can also read that once again a weak municipal budget is presented. It is a fact that the result for the municipalities in 2016 was the best in this millennium, and in one year we have had a halve in the number of municipalities that are on the ROBEK list. After all, it's going pretty well in Municipality-Norway if you look around a little bit. Even I come from a municipality that has been able to save considerable resources in reserve over the last four years and strengthen the care of the elderly and the municipal services. My question to the Workers' Party is: In what way is a halving of the number of municipalities on the ROBEK list and the best result for the municipalities in this millennium a sign of a poor municipal budget from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e253	In any case, it is a sign of responsible municipal politicians who keep their money. I expect that the representative of Engen-Helgheim is also aware that the result that was good for the municipal sector last year is due to a one-off payment that came because of the tax system, and that money will not be spent by sensible municipal politicians in the future. The recognition that the Progress Party and the Right should have is that the growth of the free revenues in the next few years is estimated to be 0.3 pst. It is very low and causes municipalities to get into a very difficult situation. It is good that municipalities come out of the ROBEK list, but there is nothing to say about the service offered there. You will not get a better health care home offer because your municipality has come out of the ROBEK list. You do not get home help, and you do not get kindergarten space even if your municipality has come out of the ROBEK list. That's the services we have to look at. The ROBEK list is a good tool for economic governance, but the services don't just depend on whether you're on or off the ROBEK list.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e260	I record that the Workers' Party writes a lot about their desire for trust reform in the public sector. The municipalities are probably about 40 pst. by the public sector. I assume that the Labour Party has some kind of mistrust in the public sector when they want a kind of trust reform. Today we have a place between 5,000 and 7,000 laws, regulations and regulations for the municipal sector, and there is a significant number that we have left to the local government over time here in the Grand Duchy to deal with. The working party has approx. Half of the Norwegian rapporteurs, so the question is: is it all the rapporteurs that you trust, or is it those that you yourself do not have in the municipalities, because a type of trust reform wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e267	We have great confidence in both our own rapporteurs and others, who are doing a formidable job of connecting the municipal sector, but I think we need to recognise that in the state sector, and also in the municipalities, we are operating a target regime that is not necessarily the best. The New Public Management tank has received too much input, and there are too many counting edges and measurement of the number. I think we should place much greater emphasis on the competence of employees in how to solve the problems, and not be as detailed as what we are. Here, I think we have a lot to learn, both those who are in position, and those who are in opposition. We should pay less attention to all our measurements and focus more on the competence of employees in the municipal sector – and in the state sector as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e272	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e277	Norway is a good country to live in. We have small differences, low unemployment and a sustainable welfare state. Municipalities must ensure good welfare services where people live, both now and in the future. Municipalities are the foundations of the welfare society. For the Right, it is important to create a living local democracy, a simpler everyday life and to strengthen the social security network. In order to solve the many problems, municipalities have gained a stronger real growth in their free revenues with this government. We have prioritised funding for the school health service, made a stepping-up plan against drugs, and invested in early school interventions. I am pleased that an agreement has been negotiated between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party on the state budget for 2018. It further strengthens the government's efforts. In the budget agreement, the community grant has been increased to provide more free core time in kindergarten, and both the school health service and the drug field have continued to be strengthened. In the municipal bill for 2018, the government posted a real growth of between 4.6 billion. and 5,3 billion. kr. This is followed up in the State budget with a real growth of 4.6 billion. kr, and the real growth of the free revenues is estimated at SEK 3,8 billion. kr. For Kommune-Norway as a whole, the estimates show that the average annual task-corrected real growth in the period 2013–2016 was 2.4 pst, while it was 1.8 pst from 2005 to 2013. So it's a better community economy with this government. And as was said in a line change: In 2016, the municipalities delivered the best result since the 1990s. There is also a record low number of municipalities in the ROBEK register. Norwegian society needs to change over the years to come — we get falling oil revenues, and there are more older than 70 years old. Only in 20 years will there be more than twice as many Northmen over 80 years, and we know that these need health and care services. We in the Right are therefore pleased that the investment grant for lucky day care places has been strengthened in recent years, and that in 2018 there is room for grants for 1,800 new lucky days care places. The daily activity offer is increased by 350 new places. Funds have also been provided for the escalation plan against drugs. Although most live well in Norway, this does not apply to all. Hard-working people must be helped to obtain housing. The government has therefore improved the housing support. Access to rental accommodation is important and a proposal to streamline and target the grant is now out of consultation. Local authorities have been given increased space for action, but there is a potential to drive smarter and more efficiently. Efficiency analyses show that many municipalities have a lot to do. Renewal and simplification take place through the digitisation and use of ICT. The government continues its investment from 2017 and grants approx. 0.5 B.C.E. kr for new state ICT bets. This is in addition to ICT efforts in the health and school sectors. Municipalities are high in purchasing, and there is an untapped potential to drive innovation and better services. That's why it's set at $15 million. to the Directorate for Administration and ICT to meet green acquisitions and environmental protection requirements in public acquisitions. We also have a lot to go on there. We want stronger municipalities and a living local democracy with power and responsibility close to those to which the decisions relate. Local and regional reform has given us a more forward-looking structure, with a municipal sector that can provide good services and promote positive social development. We want the municipalities to have an action room. We do not want an earring that binds up the municipalities and causes municipal politicians to have less and less room for action on their priorities in their municipalities. We have also adopted larger and more functional county municipalities and will strengthen both local democracy and the growth power of the new counties. The appropriations for road and track have increased by 21.8 billion. kr since 2013. It binds the districts together, it's a district-friendly policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e307	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e313	On 7 December this year, Norway’s volunteer centres held a voluntary conference. Each year, for 25 years, the State has provided direct grants to the volunteer centres. Since 2013, this amount has remained silent until 2017, when it increased. Studies now show that more than 50 pst. by all the volunteer centres have been cut off from the transfers after the municipalities themselves were held responsible for them. How does the Right view it if the same development occurs in 2018? How will the Right take action to ensure, where appropriate, that, in the future, volunteer centres receive the necessary growth and subsidies to maintain good activity for all volunteers in their municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e318	Thank you for the question. Volunteering is a major part of the activity in Norway and provides a major contribution to the work of municipalities. Then the municipalities have to give priority to what they are going to spend their money on, and I think it is important that the municipalities give priority to voluntary work. It is also the case that in the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left there is extra funding for volunteer centres. It's added 5 million. kr extra in the budget, so it would help to strengthen this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e323	The centre party believes that the large cuts in food development resources through regional development funds are very unfortunate. It is also something that the county councils have given feedback on. There are dramatic consequences to industrial development around the districts. The right disagrees with our description and says the following in a note with the Progress Party and the Left: ‘These members indicate that the growth of rural road investment alone exceeds the reduction in regional development funds.’ Our calculations show the opposite. The growth of county roads is only a fraction of the reduction in regional development funds. What are the facts on which the right is based, as the basis for the claim given in this comment that I referred to?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e333	Thank you for the question. First, I would like to say that the Right operates a very active district policy. It's a district policy that I experience, when I visit the business community in the districts, that they're satisfied with. What you care about in the districts is that you have the road and the track, especially roads that connect the districts. In this period of government historical sums have been allocated for road operations. 21,8 B.C.E. kr has been granted. At the same time, it is important for business to have a good framework. We have to have a tax policy that makes it pay to bet in the districts. Now it goes down in the districts. Among other things, the tourism industry reports very good numbers. In this way, there are other incentives to pursue district policies than passive transfers from county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e340	The government still boasts that they have spent more money in different areas, but that would only be missing when you have 125 billion. more of the oil money to be spent on the budgets. You have to use them for something. But one area that concerns everyone in this country, and which concerns most of those who have difficulties, is housing, and there we spend less money now than we did in 2010, and we have become 400,000 more people in that country. We know that poverty is increasing. Last week we got statistics that show that the wages of the lowest wages have fallen, and the boutes have increased violently. Nevertheless, the government says that they strengthen the housing support. How is it possible to strengthen housing support when fewer sheep and those who receive are now covered by less of their housing costs than before, and when do they fall completely out of the scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e347	Thank you for the question. It is important that the housing aid is flexible and that it is accurate. The cost of living rate has been raised by this government, so that more people actually get support. What we're working on is closing holes in the security network and correcting 2017 biases. Now it is that the disability benefit from Nav, without benefits, has increased more than the price increase, but it is compensated for in 2017. We have also done several other measures to better target housing support. Among other things it is that in book collectives you can now get support. The income of children is exempt from being included in the calculation basis for aid. We've also adjusted up, so that's the last month's income that counts for housing support. The government also has a strategy, Housing for well-being, which you want to fulfill.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e354	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e359	Government policy is about creating opportunities for everyone, a simpler everyday life for most people and a stronger social security network. The municipal sector has gained a stronger real growth in its free revenues under this government than under the previous government. In particular, we have prioritised funding for health centres, school health services, drug treatment and early school interventions. The investment grant to lucky day care facilities has been significantly strengthened, and in 2018 there is room for grants to provide around 1,800 lucky day care facilities, and daily activity offers to people with dementia are increased by 350 places. Local government reform will provide greater and stronger welfare municipalities. In 2016, municipalities delivered the best economic result since the 1990s, which has given a record low number of municipalities in ROBEK, and about 100 more municipalities are considered to have a larger economic space in 2016 compared to 2013. Before the weekend, effectiveness was presented in the municipalities. The analyses show that the overall efficiency potential in the three primary, kindergarten and care sectors was 13 pst. in 2016. In other words, the use of resources may be reduced by 13 pst. without reducing production, if all municipalities become as effective as the most efficient municipalities. The budgetary agreement proposes to raise the ceiling on entitlement to free core time in kindergarten for 3 to 4 and 5 years of age. It is proposed to increase the budget line by a further 100 million. DKK in order to increase the number of positions in the school health care and health care centres, and an additional 75 million. to follow up the Stairs Plan for the Land of Waste. Our society must through constant transformation and development. Public administration must use the resources properly to meet the needs of its citizens. The main focus of the government has been to simplify, renew and improve. Increased use of digital systems is necessary to provide effective solutions. The development of new solutions increases the pressure on privacy and requires strict storage, use and dissemination requirements. The new Data Protection Regulation will enter into force during 2018. Norway is a country with great variation and rich diversity, and we are constantly working to boost growth across the country. A successful regional and district policy is measured in terms of opportunities for people and businesses in the districts. The focus on transport, tax relief, differentiated employer charges, the income system for municipalities, health services, education, research and innovation is of great importance in achieving good regional development and regional balance. The fact that unemployment is now falling in all states tells us that we are succeeding in our business-friendly policy, which provides the basis for growth in all parts of the country. Rural investment is more important than the reduction in regional development funds. The broad district policy has been a success, and it is now going well in District Norway. The country has received over 100 applications for development concessions in aquaculture. The travel industry reports new records. The number of start-ups is record high and innovation is high in the existing business world. Increased investment in regional development funds could not replace the positive development we are now seeing in the districts. The districts are strengthened by a growing business life, record-breaking municipal economy and growing municipalities. Government Party policies have strengthened districts, prevented closures of businesses and jobs, and thus deportation. Fewer town halls and politicians mean more money for better services for the population. In order to prevent relocation, it has been important to create municipalities that are attractive to live in. The government's social housing policy has also produced results. A recent survey carried out by the Institute of Urban and Regional Research shows that the number of homeless people in Norway has fallen by a total of 36 pst. in the last four years. The decline has occurred in all types of municipalities. A number of schemes and grants have contributed to what we now see the outcome of, and the government's aim to ensure faster processing of building materials and simplifications in the Planning and Building Act also ensures more and more rapid development of new dwellings. The government has made several improvements to the housing support system. Rates are now adjusted by price developments, thus correcting a major weakness following the red-green conversion of the scheme in 2009. Monthly up-to-date income figures and improved rules for large families and people in book collections are also important changes that have been made. Victims who had housing support before the impending reform came into force are covered by the compensation scheme, which prevents the reform from leading to a reduction in housing aid. This compensation scheme is continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e391	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e396	Whales have introduced property taxes, and this is what the rapporteur, Mr Borge, from the Progressive Party, says on the matter: the reason for the introduction was to get better services, and there is no doubt that the capacity of services has improved. If the property tax is to disappear, he continues, the alternative is fewer health homes, and the expectations of demands and capacity need to be lowered. He said he was not in favour of property taxes, but voted for it and stood behind it, because he saw that it was necessary. Does the Progress Party in Stortinget believe that the rapporteur at Hyler has poor governance and demands property taxes without any need to do so? Does the Progress Party on Stortinget believe that whales should cut out the property tax and then cut off in hospitals, as the Whaler rapporteur and the party trap say is the consequence?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e403	The Labour Party tends to argue as it is doing here now, that if you cut property taxes, you have to cut in nursing homes. It doesn't relate that way. We have different challenges in all municipalities. We don't have a majority alone in any municipalities. It's an interaction with an entire budget. But the party Progress Party is against property tax. The rapporteur knows that about whaler, and he also says himself that he would like to be there. We know that there are many other ways to set up the local economy. There are very many municipalities that have good care for the elderly and do not have property taxes. Therefore, I have recommended that Wyler look at these municipalities and learn from them, so that they can cut the property tax and nevertheless provide good care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e411	The budget agreement has greatly reduced the autonomy of municipalities by reducing the possibility of property taxes. It is not often that we have rapporteurs on torches outside the Storting who are asking us not to reduce that opportunity because it will destroy service production in the municipalities. Among other things, there was a Right-Rapporteur who held a rather flaming appeal out here. At the top of a tight municipal frame, there 60 pst. If you say it's more demanding than before, you have to take away the possibility of property tax. In the past we have heard the argument that it is unnecessary that there are red-green rapporteurs who have too poor financial management and that it does not go beyond the production of services. Last week we saw that the Progress Party rapporteur in Ulstein was able to get through property taxes in his local government. It was absolutely necessary to maintain service production. Does the representative think that Ulstein should have reduced the quality of municipal services? And does the representative believe that this indicates that the Progress Party rapporteur in Ulstein has far too poor financial management?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e420	That's going to be a lot of the same thing. We have a lot of municipalities that don't have property taxes, and that do good services – just as good services. Then I pointed out the new report that came before the weekend, which shows that there is a great potential for efficiency in a lot of municipalities. It is very easy to ask for more money every time things get a little demanding. Those who are the best politicians are the ones who take a proper review of their entire offer at regular intervals and see how they can do things better. Then again, the Progress Party is not alone with 50 pst. in some municipalities. That means that the budgets are made together with several parties, and those parties have slightly different ways of working.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e429	I want to think that the best politicians are the ones who are able to prioritize what they say is most important, anyway. What we have seen is that the Progress Party has given priority when it comes to government is first and foremost tax relief for the few and richest – while enough senior care workers have gained far less importance for the Progress Party. Now when we hear that all the municipalities are going to be as effective, it's like Rendalen is going to be just like Bærum, and I think the representative understands that it's not possible when geography is the way it is. So the question is why the Progress Party makes these choices. Because this is about having enough employees. 50 pst. by the rapporteurs in a study The Municipal Report has made it necessary for them to cut off staff. Many of them work in the care of the elderly, and care for the elderly depends on the fact that there are more employees than today if it is to be good, both in the nursing homes and in home care. Why is tax relief more important than old-age care for the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e438	Here it was a little different to deal with. The municipalities that are compared in terms of efficiency are, of course, set up against each other according to the group to which they belong. Andersen says that there are so many rapporteurs who warn them to cut. They've come every year for 25 years as long as I've been running politics. It's a mechanism that automatically kicks in: every time we talk about budget, the municipalities cut. But that's the results we're measuring, and the results show that the municipalities are doing very well, that there have been more employees, and that we have prioritised what's most important. Then you have to stop saying that the tax havens are given to those who have the most. Taxes are given to strengthen our competitiveness, and it is given to everyone. It has benefited everyone, with a total tax credit of 25 billion. kr. Then the Progress Party would like to see the care of the elderly managed by the state. There is no majority for that in this Chamber, therefore it is the municipalities that are responsible for the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e451	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e456	The Central Party shall submit a draft budget to allow the local government sector to maintain and develop the services offered to its citizens and to carry out the development tasks of the municipality. Overall, we strengthen the income framework of municipalities and count on a total of 4 billion. D in relation to the government's draft budget. Our priorities are the result of re-priorities in the state budget, and not an overall increase in government expenditure in 2018. KS has recently presented a budget study for 2018. Based on the draft budget of the councillors, it shows how 2018 appears from the standpoint of municipalities. 60 pst. by the municipalities, the budgetary work is more demanding for 2018 compared to previous years. Net operating surplus in municipalities will be significantly lower than the recommendations made by the Technical Calculation Committee. I think it is particularly worrying that budgeted net operating profit is down to 0.08 pst. in municipalities with less than 10000 inhabitants. In municipalities with over 60,000 inhabitants, budget line 2 pst. I hear some say that the difficult situation for small and medium-sized municipalities is due to population development — fewer and older inhabitants. That's just a small part of the explanation. Political decisions are the main cause of tougher times for these municipalities. Changes in the income system have resulted in a deliberate transfer from small and medium-sized municipalities to the largest municipalities. I do not always agree with the analyses of NIVI Analysis in their campaign for municipal mergers, but I must give them right when they say the following: «Communities that stand alone must be prepared for harsh economic conditions in the years that come because these municipalities lose funding.» The main reason for the weak income development in small and medium-sized municipalities is due to changes in the system of state transfers, rather than the development of the general population. The fact is that among municipalities with between 2000 and 25 000 inhabitants, 269 people lost on conversion, while 51 came out in positive. All municipalities with over 25,000 inhabitants came out in plus. The Ministry has quite undisputedly justified the changes in their promotion of municipal reform. For me and the Central Party, changes in the keys of the income system should be objectively justified on the basis of the costs of developing an equivalent service offer to the inhabitants, irrespective of the size of the municipality and the place of residence. The central party has increased the municipal framework by 2.4 billion. kr and has distributed this money according to criteria that applied until 2016. The government introduced new criteria related to what they called ‘involuntary and voluntary small municipalities’ and introduced a penalty for opposing community mergers. I am pleased that we have the support of a large minority in the proposal where the Stortinget asks the government to reintroduce compensation for small operating expenses through a similar basic grant to all municipalities at the level of the grant that was granted until 2016. Regional and regional development appropriations have certainly not been among the winners under the current government. The allocation has been reduced by 50 pst. from the 2014 red-green budget proposal until the 2018 proposal of the current government. Only in this year's budget has the appropriations been reduced by 330 million. kr. It's a dramatic development. The role of county councils as contributors to economic development and job organisation in rural areas has been severely weakened as a result of budget cuts. Since both the Christian People's Party and the Left proposed an increase in regional development funds in their own budget, I thought perhaps the budgetary agreement with the government would correct the biggest cuts. Unfortunately, this was not the case. The majority of the population behind the merger of county municipalities say that strengthening the role of county municipality as a social developer is a main reason for the reform. There are arguments that lose all credibility when we see how these parties weaken the role of the county council in contributing to the creation of jobs and support for entrepreneurial activity. I note the budget report from the Ministry, which indicates that the corporate loan and grant schemes through the appropriations for the regional and district policies of the State budget triggered about four-fold the capital of other projects carried out in 2016. It is regrettable that the government and the budget-mates do not pay attention to these facts. The Central Party strengthens regional and regional policy appropriations by 500 million. kr. The top-level funding scheme for the costs of the municipality to resource-intensive users is also further weakened in the budget. It is proposed that the entry point to cover 80 pst. the costs incurred by the municipality are increased by NOK 50000. This gives an extra charge to the municipalities of 345 million. kr. For the last two years, they've been worth 375 million. NOK in extra costs. There is little comfort in the fact that the budget agreement this year has a verbal proposal to investigate changes to the resource-requiring services system. Finally, I would like to address the proposals of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e489	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e496	The municipal reform is a part of ensuring good municipal services in the future. The Central Party has said from the Chair here in this Chamber that the municipal reform by definition is centralization, but still the centre party for two out of three mergers here in June. The government's goal with the local and regional reforms is to move power out of Oslo and into elected bodies in municipalities and regions. In 2006, the representative, Mr Slagsvold Vedum, said the following: ‘By coordinating several tasks at regional level, we can further develop the quality of services, contribute to a better overall resource use and strengthen legitimacy.’ Is the representative, Mr Greni, in agreement with his 2006 party trap?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e508	Yes, of course, we can further develop regional levels. That's why we want a lot of new tasks at regional level. The centre party has promoted twelve proposals, I believe, to new tasks at regional level, completely independent of the grouping. Today's counties are fully capable of taking on many new tasks, without the need for supplementary aggregation. Well, that's what the government has itself realized. The government parties have, for example: not proposed coercion for the More and Romesdal counties. All the other states per day are able to carry out the same tasks that More and Romsdal are able to do. So a structural change in the county councils is completely unnecessary so that we can gain more power and authority at regional level, more tasks at regional level and more services and more power closer to the inhabitants. I am very disappointed that the government has not wanted to vote for the proposals we have made regarding new tasks for the counties, and then I am very disappointed that the government is overstepping the county council decisions where they want to maintain their county as their own county.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e515	On the basis of the submission, the Centre Party may appear to be opposed to community mergers and regional reform only on principle, although it may also prove to have positive effects. In the election campaign, the Central Party had as its main electoral language that they had centralized too much, and the head of the Central Party said from this very pulpit that this government was now the most centralizing government that had ever been in Norway. There were several people who wanted to see if it was correct. The NRK went to work thoroughly and found out that it was rather the opposite – this government had been nothing more centralizing than others, and it could be shown that, among other things. was laid down several local hospitals and such as while the Centre itself was in government. Is it so that the Central Party has realized that they stand for more centralization when they sit in government, or will they still use that rhetoric, even if it is turned back?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e524	I guess there's no doubt that we have a huge centralizing government. Looking at the 2018 budget, it is absolutely following up its policy of centralisation. Now the municipalities are to be deprived of the right to self-determination over property taxes. You can look at the value added tax of the tourism industry, an attack on a district industry. One can look at the decline in regional development funds, which affect the districts. You can look at the income system for municipalities, which gives a huge redistribution from the small and medium-sized municipalities around the district of Norway into the largest urban municipalities. And that's how you can keep going forever. You can look at the conversion that has taken place in agriculture, which weakens the district industries. One can look at the re-prioritisation that has taken place within the transport budget, where it is more focused on the Eastern region and less on the districts, and there, for example. all railway resources go to the central east, not to e.g. Tree layer – as it was in the NTP. It's clear that the government is going to follow this centralization line, and we're going to work against it all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e532	I want to go back to 1964, when we had the previous municipal reform. We had recently moved from horse and car as an ambulance transporter to a car-based ambulance. The municipal reform was then much inspired by the idea that we should build secondary schools, but we also had to equip ourselves with a technical sector that was to expand residential areas, among other things. And we've done that. Now we're facing a digital revolution where it's possible to do a lot with government, based on a larger population than it was in the 1960s. I heard the representative Greni refer to only 51 municipalities growing after the new grant scheme for the municipalities was revised now. But all of these municipalities have been under pressure since 1964 to streamline. Does the representative, Mr Greni, feel that it is a matter of solidarity that someone should take greater responsibility than others?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e539	I do not know what it was like in Uppland, but in Trondelag it was invented both cars and ambulances in 1964. Uppland may be a little late – I will not comment on that. With regard to the current redistribution, there is a redistribution that does not provide equivalent services throughout the country. Our mantra in terms of the income system for municipalities is to be able to provide equivalent services – whether it is in a small municipality in Finnmark, or whether it is in Oslo. As is now the case, it is planned that the inhabitants of the small municipalities should find themselves in poorer municipal services; they should find themselves in longer response times in emergency situations; they should find themselves in poorer municipal roads; they should at all find that there is no equivalent offer. The priority that most people have to move to cities, we don't want to be on. We want an income system that is objective and that adds that everyone has the right to equivalent services, no matter where in the country you live.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e548	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e553	The municipal sector is the first line in public Norway. First and last of all in life is the time when most of us need the most community services. Early effort in life creates the best possible life throughout life. Yes, for a good childhood likes to last life out. The health promotion work cannot be started early enough. Those who need it the most are our main priority, and in recent years we have given a lot more money to those who need it the most – the little ones who go to kindergarten, preschool and school, and actually the older ones who need it at the end of their lives. There have been over 500 more health sisters, midwives and psychologists. A pilot scheme with primary health teams will be launched next year. Too many older people experience unfortunately fragmented services where they have to move between fixed and different services in the municipal health sector. Many older people want to stay at home for as long as possible, but with today's organisation in the municipalities, it is often not a chain that is compatible with putting the patient in the centre. For the left, we have also given priority to getting funds to try out distance follow-up through fixed doctors, where more people can live at home and use digital aids to get a more systematic follow-up. In the future, there is a great need for more innovation in care, and there is a great need for recruitment to meet the welfare challenges we face in the next 15-20 years. The time window is very good now. We have good finances in Norway. It is not now that we have the majority of the elderly on the way into the care sector, it is in ten years. That is why the window is right now very good for a community reform, and therefore we must continue to prepare the municipalities to meet the challenges they face. The municipal economy has been moving in the right direction in recent years. There is a large growth in free income, and there is also a large growth in tax revenue. It is part of the picture that has been little mentioned so far in the debate today. It is also important to ensure that one can adapt to local challenges. For the left, we would like to spend even more money on the municipalities. In our alternative budget, we proposed $2.6 billion. kr more for the local government sector. School bets are also important. The increase in free income in the Left's alternative budget is mainly justified by the need for increased efforts in schools, kindergartens and social services. The action plan for drug use and a national minimum standard for social assistance are important. Several positions in school health services and health centres, several kindergartens, more with free core time, maximum price and differentiated stay payment for the SFO are also important for many families with children, as well as more teachers and stronger efforts in language and ICT in school. Digitalisation is also important for meeting future needs. Today we have a municipal sector that we have overlooked a little bit from the Stortinget and the state. There's too much digital diversity out there, and we have a lot to learn about coordinating and standardising in the municipal sector, and we have to speed it up in time to come. A less good example of how we have organised this is the national digital learning arena that the county councils merged in 2006. It has led to a monopoly, and digital education in high school is not an example of follow-up. We need to organise this in a different way when primary schools are now going to make greater use of digital learning materials. In part of the budget agreement, the Left also received 50 million. D more for the development of digital learning material, but where in the future we will do so in a different way than by creating a national monopoly. I think I'll stop there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e572	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e577	We have areas with living conditions challenges in our cities. Many of the children who grow up in these areas have parents who don't work. They grow up in poor families. The left is on the defensive at work on the area bet. In the election campaign promised Left gold and green forests, but the Left is not willing to fulfill its election promises with money for area betting in Groruddalen, in Oslo south and on Tøenen. This is about the Left not giving priority to actions that improve the lives of these children. The government does not give enough priority to the police in the streets or to measures that could get the parents of the children to work. Now the Left is going into this government. The Workers' Party has for a long time been a driving force for the area effort in vulnerable areas facing living conditions challenges. Extra efforts by the state and local authorities in selected neighbourhoods have been aimed at contributing to local environmental promise to improve the well-being of people. Will the Left fight for increased allocations for area actions in areas facing living conditions challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e586	I thank you for that question. We clearly share our views on the challenges in the south of Oslo. I suppose that's what the representative Gassemyr Staales most refers to. The representative says that the Left has not provided for what we promised during the election campaign. I don't quite understand that, because we got $10 million in this budget deal. kr more for just area bet in Oslo South. It was already 30 million inside. kr from the government's side, so in sum it's 40 million. kr. It's in addition to $30 million. kr in the justice budget, so the state contributes 70 million. kr for area bet in the south of Oslo. As far as I'm aware, that's more than what Oslo Municipality itself contributes to in Oslo South. There is no agreement between the Municipality of Oslo and the State to set up a new area operation in the south of Oslo. In particular, the Municipality of Oslo must take responsibility for this and ensure that we have an agreement in place. It will also trigger more resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e593	The left proposed 250 million. kr to operational measures in the districts when the party presented its draft budget. The lot indicated that they would strengthen the allocations for regional development, which have been substantially reduced in recent years. I understand that the Left wants to be the party of small businesses and entrepreneurs, and that's an ambition we share in the Center Party. Regional development funds through the county council of Innovation Norway, SIVA, etc. is very important for the development of business in the districts. That's something all the county councils also point out. The budget agreement concluded by the Left is 250 million. NOK 20 million. kr. This means that the year’s cut to industrial development in districts is reduced from 330 million. NOK 310 million. kr. How will the Left explain this big cut to all the companies that rely on start-up support to build new businesses and new jobs in District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e600	Companies out there have received a lot of help from the Left, as regards support for social schemes, among other things. I think they feel that they're getting drag help. In the case of these explicit means of establishing more enterprises in the districts, there are different ways of doing so. One example we can see is: now, State Power and South are coming in and they're going to spend 500 million dollars. kr to establish a pilot project for biorefining on Tofte. This will help many forest entrepreneurs and many forest owners set aside for wood in rural areas. A lot of sawdust is being delivered, which today accumulates and prevents the capacity of many of these cases. We have to look at the way forward: what works best to help most people? And we need to create more volume to also create more industrial jobs out there in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e609	The representative, Kjeseth, stated that the municipalities are responsible for one of the most important security networks for those who are really disadvantaged, namely social assistance. I'm glad, because there's really a need to do something there, among other things. the close possibility for municipalities to deduct child benefit from social assistance. The area we have special responsibility for here is housing support. We spend less money on housing now than we did in 2009. In the meantime, housing prices have increased violently, the incomes of very many common people and of the low-income families have remained silent in recent years, and the number of inhabitants has increased by several hundred thousand. Can the representative then explain how to write in the budget that the scheme has been strengthened, when there are several tens of thousands that do not get, and we are spending less money now than in 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e616	Now it's probably not less that gets. We spend less money, but there's more that gets, there's more to divide by. It's one of the challenges of today's system. It is the same challenge as the previous government – to have to adjust housing support because more people needed it. The left acknowledges that there are challenges in the housing market for those with low incomes – definitely – with the prices we now have. That is why, in our alternative budget, we are proposing to increase efforts to build more dwellings for low-income families. We have proposed more support for the rent-to-owner scheme, for example. These are important arrangements that we have to follow. I can admit that regardless of whether it is Left or SV who is in government, there are tough negotiations so that those who need it the most will get the best offer possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e624	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e629	I will admit that it is a little strange to stand here at this pulpit in the budgetary procedure of the Municipal Committee and wear the new hat as a parliamentarian. For 18 years, I have been following the treatment of the State budget by the Storting with a frightful blend of joy, for this part of the state budget is undoubtedly the part that has the most impact on the daily lives of individuals out there in the many – and eventually not quite so many – municipalities. There is talk of rapporteurs still wanting more money. It's a law of nature. Of course, you're going to have an optimal countdown. It's going to be someone at any level. It is thus also a test of how Stortinget values the job done by local politicians in the municipalities and the counties. Although my party would have liked to have gone a little further in terms of giving freedom of action and a somewhat more liberal framework, the big picture is that there is a predictable framework. The last few years have not been such a great disaster that was preached when the Right Party and the Advance Party moved into the government offices. Now it is also said that these parties have fortunately been dependent on the Christian People's Party and the Left to get the budget into port. Getting the budget in port is as well to compromise. That is the compromise for all of us. It's not the first choice for all of us to be presented here today. We have had a budgetary settlement in port – with good strengths in important areas. I want to mention something in the area of district policy. It's not just the balancing instruments. We have the Merkur program, which helps us have local stores all over the country. We have a strengthening of farm-oriented programmes in the districts, which are in love. There is not a general shortage of capital in Norway, but there is a lack of risk capital. There may be an Achilles heel in many of the districts. We are also very pleased that we had a loss compensation for the county municipalities that lost disproportionately on the conversion of the income system. I think they're happy about that in both Sogn and Fjordane, in particular Northland and Troms, because it's a clear lead that those who are compensated are the ones who have lost the most. We are pleased that health care continues to be lifted. Everyone is talking about early efforts and the earliest possible effort for the little ones, for the children. The big challenges we have here are most real. This is good co-human policy, and it is also socio-economically profitable. We are also pleased that, during the committee reading in a joint majority opinion of the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, it was given clear ground to keep the so-called regional centre grant out of the income guarantee scheme. The Christian People's Party was initially opposed to changing the income system, but once it has changed, we cannot lead the municipalities that were promised such carrots, behind the light. That is why this is in the budget. Another somewhat similar matter which I am pleased to see an overall committee stand behind was the Inner Fosen municipality, which unintentionally came out of the zone criteria of the income system worse than what was envisaged. In 2018, this will be resolved through the discretionary means, and the government will return to the municipal proposition with an assessment of the criteria for neighbouring and zone in the light of the municipal reform. Here, both the ministry and the committee deserve commendation for their willingness to clean up the tricky new Inner Fozen had landed in. On the other hand, we are not entirely satisfied that the government in its proposal for a government budget increased the entry point for the reimbursement scheme for resource-intensive users by NOK 50000 in addition to the price and salary growth. It's actually weakening the system. This scheme is very important for the most help-intensive municipalities are responsible for. Then why do I draw this point out? Because we've entered into a budget settlement. As I said, it's giving and taking, but we've agreed on a proposal for an investigation of this system with a view to ensuring the best possible care for the users. We can also mention the keyword ‘choice’ and how we make choices for visually impaired people. We can mention the keyword 'Sametinget' and the budget there. That's enough to catch up with. We are pleased and pleased to have been part of this budgetary agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e652	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e657	The Christian People's Party is basically a party that has a big and warm heart for good communities and secure growth conditions around our country, and not least for the weakest in society. In the speech to the representative Bransdal, she talked about having strong and good regions is also important for us to have a good place to live in our country. My first question to the Christian People's Party relates to human politics: Does the Christian People's Party think they have been well implemented in strengthening the supply of resource-intensive users in the municipalities through the budget presented? My other question is: Does the Christian People's Party believe that regional development funds are a priority well enough to create new and good jobs so that people can live and live their lives throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e664	To question No. 1 I said very clearly in my post that in the case of resource-intensive users, we had not reached far enough. Question no. 2: Regional policy – it was a very big demand that the Christian People's Party should correct the cuts. We couldn't. If we have the big and red hearts, I'm not the one to answer. Others have to answer that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e669	60 pst. in the KS budget study, the municipalities say that the budget work in the municipalities is more demanding for 2018 compared to previous years. In particular, there are major challenges in small and medium-sized municipalities, which budget with net operating performance far below the recommendations of State authorities. The Christian People's Party had a very modest proposal for increased framework transfers to the municipalities in its draft budget, and it became even less after the budgetary conciliation with the government parties. The other opposition parties have made significant increases in this area. The feedback from Kommune-Norway is a clear warning that without any increase, the budget of the year will cause problems in maintaining the service provision to the population. What will the Christian People's Party correspond to these municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e678	This challenge is a combination of money, people, skills and the ability to do things. The income system and the keys to the income system are also a factor in this. There was something Christian People's Party was against, but when we have an income system, we have to evaluate it and see how to put it. But it's not just about money in the municipal sector, it's a combination of the people who are going to do the job, and the money that you have at your disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e683	In this budget, the Christian People's Party has once again chosen a side of Norwegian policy – the side of those who want tax relief in the face of stronger well-being. Another area that greatly changes society is the privatisation of well-being. Then it is about money, our tax money, which we give to, for example. the protection of children and the care of the elderly, shall also be a profit for private investment companies. Another important aspect of this type of privatisation is that employees over time fall into wages and, in the case of pensions, there are often very large cuts that can make up very large sums for the individual. Women work in these professions. Does the representative Bransdal agree that it is a bad thank you to be exposed to competition with both wages and pensions for these heroes in the care sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e694	Here were some assumptions that I can't go well for at all – there are some assumptions on the basis of what the Christian People's Party means. The Christian People's Party greatly appreciates the private initiative, but we want them to be equal to the public and have the same framework conditions and the same pension conditions. That's why it's wrong. We've always said that profit should be taken out of the private ideals, initially. Therefore, the starting point for the representative Andersen's question is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e699	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e704	I would like to thank the Committee for its thorough consideration of the draft budget, a special thank you to the Christian People's Party and the Left for the success we have achieved in finding good solutions for the citizens, the municipalities and the country. Some adjustments have also been made in the trade budget together with the government parties, with which we live very well. In these days, local politicians across the country are also busy with the 2018 budget. Both nationally and locally, we share many ambitions. We want safe growing-up conditions, good kindergartens and schools that provide opportunities for everyone, good jobs that provide well-being for everyone and for the community, good-quality health and care services, a social security network that captures us if we fall, and that gives us new opportunities. We want strong, living communities throughout the country. The framework we are putting into consideration today's draft budget determines whether it is possible to achieve these ambitions. For four years, the government has provided a good and predictable local economy, with a stronger real growth than in the red-green years of government. The municipalities have good results to point to, and there are fewer municipalities on the ROBEK list than ever. But we're the first to recognize that more money is not enough to solve today's and tomorrow's challenges. When oil revenue goes down, welfare challenges rise and people's expectations rise, no one can pay off. First of all, we need to ensure growth and more secure jobs. We must ensure renewal and improvement in both the state and the municipality. That is why the budget debate has to be about much more than dollars and cents. Local and regional reform has given us a more forward-looking structure, with a municipal sector that can provide good services and promote positive social development. Local politicians from all parties have seen the challenges and seized the opportunities. Among them are more than 30 Labour Party rapporteurs and about 20 rapporteurs from the Central Party. While the opposition in Stortinget has discussed reversal, local politicians provide for modernisation. And local politicians have a government that plays with them. Community reform will continue, including during this period, and we will provide local authorities with tools to digitise and strengthen their competences locally. Perhaps it is not by chance that elected representatives and employees in the municipalities take the lead in ensuring a more sustainable well-being. They know that when central politicians promise better services, they often have to do the job. They've probably heard promises of more money before. They know, however, that regardless of government, they have had to give priority and make demanding choices between many good purposes. That's the way it's going to be in the future. As national politicians, we should have higher ambitions than overwhelm each other in money and promises for everything. We have to provide a framework that allows the municipalities to deliver on the major tasks they have. We must be willing to carry out reforms that are important in the long term, even if they cost something in the short term. I am pleased that the government and the cooperation parties agree that the municipal reform will continue and that the regional reform will be implemented. In addition, we need to ensure that municipalities not only have finances, but also action spaces, to solve the huge welfare problems they have. Then we don't have to control the details and over-manage. I trust that local elected representatives want the best for their communities, their neighbors, friends, acquaintances and family. We have to make sure that they also have room to find the good solutions. Tomorrow I will receive a report with a review of earmarked grants for the local government sector. I can already tell you today that the scope is enormous. Employees and elected representatives in municipalities must use large financial resources to apply for grants and report on their tasks. A large state bureaucracy has been built to deal with the earmarked grants. There is little room for adapting services to local or individual needs; the state has defined what to do and how to do. State detail management is reducing the scope for action and increasing the frustration among local politicians. As a head of mental health services said, ‘I will not expose users or employees to any number of short-term government projects. What we need is room to make good services that are suitable for us, and that stand over time." We have to do something about this in common. There needs to be more room for good local solutions, less state detail management and more trust in those who are going to do the job. It'll be an important task for us in the future. It is also important that we have a culture of continuous renewal in both the state and the municipality. That is why we have made and published analyses that show how municipalities can learn from the best when organising their welfare services. This may release significantly more resources for better services than the opposition parties themselves are required to do. But ‘this is about people and not billions’, said the head of the Center Party, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, when we published the efficiency analysis. Yes, and that's exactly why this is so important. Because it is children, young people and older people who depend on the services provided by municipalities, we need to make sure that they are the best possible. And precisely because public services are so important to people, we have to keep working on renewing, simplifying and improving them. One of the most important measures we have taken is large investment in digitisation in both the state and the municipality. We introduce digital mail into the state, and we have digitised the lighting of things, the services of the Husbank, the tax notice, and we are well in the process of building. This makes everyday life easier for users, and it frees time and capacity for employees. We have established a co-financing mechanism for small and medium-sized digitisation projects. Only this investment has ensured the realisation of 26 projects over the last two years, with a socio-economic benefit of a total of 11.4 billion. kr. For the next year, we will have a funding mechanism in place that will contribute to the faster and better development of digital tools also in the municipal sector. Neither districts nor cities live on subsidies, they live on profits. It is primarily our work effort and the values created in small and large enterprises, which are the basis for our common well-being. I notice that the left-hand side taps on the political bulk when they criticise the cuts in regional development funds. It is produced as if this would deplete District Norway. But it's worth noting that growth is now rising, and unemployment is falling throughout the country. Employment is increasing in almost all counties. North Norway is now a growth engine for the whole country. When the left-hand side strikes the chest that they want to distribute more public money, they send the bill to those who create values and who are in work. They will first collect more taxes from people and businesses in the districts, then distribute them and take credit for it. A policy in which taxes on labour and value added still need to be increased in order to finance ever-increasing public expenditure is not sustainable. Such policies will in the long term affect those who need welfare services most. Our policy is to allow businesses and people to retain more of the values they create, so that they can invest in growth and well-being. It is therefore gratifying that we have received a majority for changes in the so-called machine tax. This means that many companies have more room to invest in new jobs in local communities throughout the country. Together with large investments in transport, research and development, it provides the basis for strong districts and sustainable cities. However, when the market fails, it is important to have mechanisms that ensure good services throughout the country. The Mercury programme, also referred to by the representative of the Christian People's Party, is such a scheme that facilitates the presence of local shops in vulnerable communities. I am therefore pleased that we, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have agreed to strengthen this arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e764	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e769	I have two questions for the Council of State Sanner. One is about real growth, which is still presented as stronger than under the red-green government. I have a specific question to the Council of State Sanner: can he confirm that the total revenue for the municipal sector from 2014, when the Council of State Sanner took over, and up to the state budget we are debating today, is at 1.9 p.m., and that the corresponding figures for the free revenues are 1.5 p.m.? That's what's going on in the municipal sector. Then I wonder about the wage trend for top government leaders, who were at 7.9 pst. in 2015 and at 4.8 pst. in 2016, during a period when all other employees showed moderation, is there anything that the Council of State is breaking down on the chest?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e776	Let's first take the growth of the free income. Per capita it was in the red-green years of government of 0.6 pst. From 2013 to 2017, it was 0.9 pst. If we look at the total growth for the free income, it was 1.8 pst. in the red-green years and at 1.9 pst. from 2013 to 2017. Also for the representative's own municipality of residence, Gran, there has been a stronger growth under bourgeois rule than it was when the Workers' Party itself sat in the government offices. A KS study presented during the Committee’s consultation showed that there are over 100 more municipalities that consider to have a larger economic space in 2016 than they had in 2013. This shows that there has been a better economic space for action, but as I said in my post, money is not enough, the municipalities also have to renew and streamline.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e783	Then I allow the Council of State to answer the second question I asked. I record that he will not respond for 2018 when he presents figures for growth in the municipal sector – that is a reason. But then I ask again: Is the Council satisfied with the growth that has taken place in public sector executives, for which the Council of State is responsible, at 7.9 p.m. in 2015 and 2016? Is it a wild growth, or is it the Council of State that has no control?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e788	It is important that the State is a modern and attractive employer. We've also been very clear that we're going to recruit some of the best public sector leaders. At the same time, we are also very clear that the management salaries over time should be in the front – it is at the bottom. But from one year to another, it can vary. Among other things, the growth in 2016 was particularly linked to the implementation of the police reform, where there were far fewer police officers, but then with a slightly higher salary. But over time, the government's executives' salaries should also be in the front line.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e793	In connection with the examination of the draft representative for the conversion of coercion decisions, Stortinget adopted the following: ‘The government asks that good and voluntary processes should be the starting point for changes in the municipal structure. Any combination of municipalities in the period 2017-2021 shall be based solely on voluntary activity.’;» And on the other hand, ‘The government asks the government to assume that the income system of the municipalities should ensure equivalent opportunities to develop welfare services for the inhabitants and not be used as an element in the continuation of the municipal reform.’ The government says that the municipal bill for 2019 will come back to how further work can be done on changes in the municipal structure. Of course, the decision of the Grand Duchy will be the basis for the government's proposals. What measures can the Council of State consider to be relevant when the use of coercion and changes in the income system are no longer available in the continuation of the municipal reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e810	Now, I guess it's about time for the Center Party to put the election campaign behind it. The central reversing message became a solid stomach patch. The municipal reform is being implemented, and some 20 of the central party rapporteurs are now implementing municipal mergers with mutual decisions. It should be a paradox for the Central Party nationally that the Centre Party locally is forward-looking, pragmatic, finding good solutions, building new municipalities and implementing the Municipal Reform. Yes, we have implemented changes in the income system, but it has nothing to do with coercion. The problem with the old income system was that municipalities who often wanted to join others were punished. And when there is a broad political majority in Stortinget that wants larger municipalities, the income system must also reflect that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e815	The SV and the government parties have very different goals. SV wants less differences between municipalities and between people, while the government wants more differences. The reason we prioritise more money – SEK 5.7 billion. kr more – to the community sector, is that we believe and know that stronger efforts in schools, child protection and care for the elderly will mean that we actually create more. Several will be able to do well and participate in value creation, just as the OECD says to Norway in its reports. But I got stuck with some of the things the Council of State said, that local politicians are in tough choices between important areas. It is then important to ensure that what is required by law is actually implemented. One of the reasons why some ear tags are, is that you want it in place. Another way is to use manning standards, e.g. in the care of the elderly, to ensure that you have the level to which the law actually refers. [[The President clubs.]] Will the Council of State...
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e820	First of all, Andersen's representative makes a fundamental mistake in claiming that the government's parties want greater differences. On the contrary, small differences are a common value that is strong in Norwegian society. When we go to work, when we go to school, it's about lifting people. When we implement the municipal reform, it is to avoid greater differences between municipalities. The reality is that without a municipal reform, we would be at risk of a class division of health policy between those municipalities that have competence, which have strong professional environments, which can implement the policy for which there is a majority in Stortinget and the municipalities that do not. So both the community reform and economic policy are about creating opportunities for everyone. With the more earmarked policy of the SV, the strongest and largest municipalities have the resources to apply for grants. It also helps create differences. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e825	There's no time for speech. The next replicator is Ketil Kjeseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e831	First, thank you to the Council of State for good cooperation and for drawing Norway in the right direction. That's good growth in the local economy. However, there is also significant growth in another part of the municipal sector, and it is within the framework of laws, regulations, regulations and designations. I've asked myself a little too much over the last few years if anyone can give me an answer as to how many there are. No one is able to give an answer, but a place between 5,000 and 7,000 is the estimate I get. That sounds a little bit like a little bit. Overall, the number of lawyers in Norwegian municipalities is at a minimum. Especially in the smallest municipalities there are very few. I hear the Council of State tomorrow get a report on earrings, and I am very pleased about that. But what about a selection to free local democracy from the coercion that I think many local politicians experience – that there is little sense in sitting in a local... [[President clubs]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e840	Then it's the Council of States, Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e845	I thank you for an important and good question, and also for the fact that the Left is a guardian of local self-government. Because it is easy to sit on the Stortinget and always think small and big about what to do in Kommune-Norway. Together, we have managed to implement increased autonomy in some areas. At the same time, we have to recognise that in other areas there has been more control. That is why I am very pleased with the report we are receiving tomorrow. Now I'm not going to tell you what's lying there, but I think it's going to surprise many, because it's a huge amount of ear-marked grants. There are large resources going through the earmarked grants. You can also look at the extent to which the objectives of the grants have been achieved. It is also seen how much resources it spends on red tape, both nationally and locally, in order to be able to extract the grants. Yes, you can see if it is appropriate to drop a sample. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e852	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e857	Today we are dealing with the municipal budget for 2018, the budget area that will affect everyday life for everyone living in Norway. It is today that we decide the framework for what municipalities will get, so that they can provide the best possible service to their citizens in the coming year. I have said this in several debates in the past also that it is out in the municipalities that people live and live their lives. That's where welfare services develop, and that's where we meet competent employees every day in the municipal welfare area who do a fabulous job every day to have a good and safe everyday life. That is why the Labour Party in its alternative budget for the coming year proposes an increase of a total of 3 billion. kr. The growth would then be divided by 2 billion. kr to the municipalities and 1 billion. kr to counties. Such an increase would have improved the finances of municipalities, and it could have further enhanced the provision of services in the coming year. Within the municipal framework, the Labour Party prioritises a wide range of measures that would provide better welfare services in many of the areas of the municipal sector. We prioritise more money for kindergartens. We keep prices at the current level, so that everyone can have a reasonable and good offer, we provide several places, and we step up with the goal that half of all kindergarten workers should be kindergarten teachers – i.e. a quality reform. In addition, we want a stronger commitment to quality in school. We give priority to 1,000 more teachers, and we want to introduce a read, write and calculate guarantee and implement a digital lift in school. The Workers' Party will also have a popular appeal for children and young people. We want it to be an hour's physical activity for all schoolchildren, we want to introduce a single school meal, and we want more health sisters to be hired, so that there will be school health service available every day at school. An important prerequisite for people to live and live their lives in small and large municipalities is an active district policy that ensures housing, business development and good welfare services. The Labour Party’s policy would provide new jobs and a good and predictable funding for municipalities, ensuring good communities around and in the neighbourhood – both in districts and cities – where everyone experienced a good and accessible welfare offer with good schools, safe care for the elderly and quality of health services. These are old slogans from the Workers’ Party: ‘By and land by hand’. An active and good district policy is absolutely necessary for our future growth industries — to dampen the pressures on cities, to give people real choice to live in all parts of the country. This is the basis for taking care of what we know in Norway today. The Labour Party believes that Norway needs stronger communities and strong regions. That is why, in our 2018 alternative budget, we have chosen to strengthen our efforts in the different regions. When the Workers' Party then strengthens the municipal economy by 3 billion. In addition to the government's appropriations, it is because we take the municipalities and county municipalities seriously. At best, the government’s financial structure is zero growth for the sector in the coming years – after the expenditure on population growth and pensions has been paid and the government’s own contributions have been implemented. A weak economic structure from the government gives little room to bet on the youngest and the oldest. All have noted the government's cut in regional development funds, which will directly affect the ability of municipalities and counties to drive active industrial development, to create new jobs, so that as much as possible has a job. It is the most important factor for a well-functioning welfare society where everyone is involved. To us as elected representatives – whether in the municipality of Norway, at state level or here in the national Parliament – there will be expectations that we will give priority to what is most important for all those who need the help of the big society, for the big society to set up, and that we will not give priority to tax cuts for those who have the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e880	I have been a municipal politician since 2007, and I have thus experienced both a red-green and a blue government. Of course, local economy is one of the most important for both politicians and citizens. I remember that under the red-green government it was quite clear that no large growth could be expected in the local economy in the next few years, nor was it. When it was due to a government change in 2013, of course, there was a great deal of tension about what the local economy would be like. To be honest, no big party was promised for the municipal economy by the new government either. But now we have the result after four years: the government has delivered more than that promised. In 2016, municipalities had the best result in this millennium, and in the current year, the number of municipalities on the ROBEK list has been halved. So few municipalities have never been on the ROBEK list before. It says a lot about the improved opportunities of municipalities. But equally fully, and not unexpectedly, the opposition shall paint the situation black. The Labour Party writes in its comments that once again we deliver a weak municipal budget. What they would not have done or were able to do when they themselves were in government, we have done, but it has suddenly become important to them now. It is therefore gratifying to be able to say to the Workers' Party that they can relax – we have full control, and we have fixed what they themselves could not. In Norwegian policy, there is far too much competition to spend the most money. That's to do boasting of who put the highest figure on some budget line. Unfortunately, increased use of money is not a good sign in itself. There need be no link between spending the most money and providing the best services. When this government can boast more of good results than of the highest use of money in a number of areas, it is a good sign. Efficiency will be the key to successful municipalities in the future. Efficiency does not mean fewer employees, less services or poorer employment. This means that effective municipalities get more out of each penny. It means more services and better offers, not worse. This is about working smarter, getting involved in development and learning from each other. It's about having respect for the citizens' tax money and avoiding waste. For the Progress Party, red tape and efficiency are important. Not only is it frustrating for businesses and individuals to spend enormous amounts of time, money and energy on unnecessary bureaucracy, but it is also at the expense of productivity and growth. All parties serve this work – so far business has saved 15 billion. kr, and the government saves SEK 2.3 billion. kr on minor red tape. This means, in practice, a simpler everyday life for most people. The government is betting on a continued secure municipal economy. Priority will be given to key areas such as school health, health centres, drug care and early school interventions. At the same time, important steps are being taken to ensure Norwegian jobs and the development of new industries. The abolition of property taxes on works and uses is an important step towards a fairer and sustainable tax policy. It is predictable that the opposition criticises this and believes that this will affect the welfare of municipalities. To this it must be said that the criticism is imaginative and misguided. Municipalities cannot base their income on taxes that actually prevent growth and new industries. With the grips of government now, municipalities will have a good transitional arrangement while ensuring the income of municipalities through the development and growth of each municipality. I'm still on the city board in the Drammen. Through efficiency improvement, good government arrangements and conscious economic governance, we have been delivering safe and good results for several years. The action room has improved, and we have saved money in reserve. In 2020, we are joining forces with two other municipalities, which have for a long time worn out financially. The municipal reform, local politicians and several years of safe and sound management of the municipal sector have enabled all these municipalities to gain control of the economy and start a new municipality that is equipped for the future. It has been good to be a local politician under this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e901	The working party is adding 3 billion. kr more than the government to strengthen the finances of municipalities and county municipalities in 2018, we strengthen the Sametinget and Sami objectives by 79 million. kr more than the government, the Labour Party strengthens the House Bank by 8 billion. More, we will maintain support for resource-intensive users, and we will strengthen the regional development funds – to mention something. The municipal budgets and county budgets intervene directly into people's everyday lives. Local and county budgets are concerned with care services, health services, school services, childcare services, business development and job creation, and are concerned with climate challenges and environmental challenges. It's the way that all of these problems have to be solved in the municipalities and the counties. That's where people live, that's where people live, and that's where the services are to be delivered every day, every day, every year – a formidable task, which is the very foundation of our welfare system. Then I'll make sure to pay tribute to all those who make sure that this actually happens, all those who work in the municipalities every day with all these tasks. It is also appropriate to pay tribute to those who are elected, those who sit and are going to make decisions in the municipalities and make sure that this actually goes around, who work well and are competent, and not least to all those who work in the municipalities and make sure that it is an activity even after the town hall has closed the door. I'm talking about volunteering in boat associations, in sports teams, in crews – what it should be. These people spend enormous amounts of resources to make it a useful thing to do, especially for young people, even after the time of closure. So it costs to drive all of this. The Labour Party spends more money on the table because we believe that we need to give priority first. Then comes school, care and health to everyone, first of all. It is essential that this works and that the municipalities have the possibility to implement it. That is why we are also giving it a strong priority. I hear the government councils and government parties boasting of their commitment to the local economy – there's no way how much money they spend and how historic all of this is. Many municipalities received a profit, partly as a result of the tax reform, partly as a result of the government's blockade of tax credits, and more money is collected. The Council of State and you may see in the heart that putting such one-off payments into operation is not very sustainable, and it does not provide a basis for stable and good operation. I believe that the Council of State and the other representatives, especially those who sit in city councils and local authorities, see that it is unreasonable to put such extras into permanent operation. The draft budget for 2018 is not uplifting to the majority of municipalities in this country. I've looked at my own county, Eastfold, where 13 out of 18 municipalities get 2.5 pst. or less in increments. It simply means that local government must start by cutting the services of its citizens, because it does not even meet the rise in wages and prices. It means cut before you start. That's what they're doing, as the councillor was inside, out there in the municipalities now. There are a lot of people sitting there and cuttings because they don't even get met with an increase that corresponds to the rise in wages and prices. The Labour Party has a different policy. We have other priorities that would have strengthened the municipal economy, which would have strengthened the county municipalities. Akershus wanted 62 million. kr more, Østfold 32 mill. SEK more, Finnmark 36 million. SEK, Oslo 68 million. SEK, and Rogaland 58 million. kr more – money for public transport and high school, to mention something. The Eastfold municipalities would thus receive 105 million with our proposal. kr more for distribution, Akershus 231 mill. SEK, Telemark 65 million. SEK, Rogaland 178 million. SEK and Hordaland 194 million. More to the municipalities in these counties — school, kindergarten, care for the elderly and health. There is indeed a difference between policy and priorities. The blue-greys have their priorities, and the Labour Party has its priorities. There is no doubt about which budget proposal would have served the citizens best, but unfortunately our alternative does not get a majority in this Chamber today. It provides for the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. They'll take it down.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e920	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e925	Housing, together with work, education and health, is the four pillars of the welfare state. Norwegian housing policy has been successful, most live in owner-occupied housing, and Norway has one of the world's best housing standards. A place to live at an affordable price is too many crucial to whether they can live an independent and good life. It is therefore an important political task to facilitate the construction of adequate housing. The main problem in today's housing market is that there are too few dwellings built, especially in the press areas. It can't be that people who have a job as a teacher or nurse should not be able to live in a house on the east side of the city. Housing policy is about where we build homes, and how we do it. It's about both quality and location. The population is growing rapidly, and by 2030 the population of Norway will have grown from five million to six million inhabitants. Urbanisation is one of the international trends. The world over, people move into cities to live and work. The most environmentally friendly thing we can do is live in town. Cities are involved in reducing national greenhouse gas emissions. We have to build smart cities, we have to seal up along the collective hub and have an area and transport development where buses and trams often go enough, so that we can travel environmentally friendly and efficient to work and home again. At the same time, we must strengthen our communities. This is when broadband expansion is crucial. The Labour Party has invested in it in its budget for 2018. Dwellings must have a standard that allows us to stay for a long time in our houses. That is why we in the Workers' Party want to take the initiative in an older programme and make housing provision so that generations can benefit from each other. The working party is skeptical about weakening the requirements for the availability of dwellings. The working party wishes to impose stricter requirements on municipalities and to ensure faster processes and housing. We believe it is right to establish binding cooperation on housing policy between the country and its largest municipalities. The working party is engaged in connecting the House Bank closer with the largest municipalities. The Workers' Party also wants to provide several rental-to-owner schemes in cooperation with private developers, housing companies, municipalities and the House Bank. Extra efforts by countries and municipalities in selected neighbourhoods have been aimed at contributing to neighbourhoods where people are to thrive better. Local meeting places contribute to creating well-being and cohesion in a neighborhood. We have contributed funds for upgrading parks, playgrounds, courtyards, pedestrian paths and free part-time work in kindergartens and AKS for all those living in selected vulnerable residential areas both in Oslo and in other cities in Norway. The working party is involved in area bets. Therefore, the Workers' Party has stepped in to strengthen the pot for area bet by 52 million. kr. We must be able to build good neighborhoods so that we can all live good lives where we live.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e942	The budget we adopt today enables municipalities to strengthen important welfare services. The municipal sector gets a real growth in its free revenues, and that's good. It facilitates the strengthening of municipal services. The budget agreement at Stortinget means a strengthening of the budget in several areas – both health, escalation, intoxication and even volunteer centres, some of which were critical that we had not handled in a good way. Overall, we will strengthen the overall and social security network so that fewer falls outside, more people are raised and more people are able to participate actively in society. In addition, we are certain that the merging municipalities, which lost on the changes in the basic and small municipal income system from 2016 to 2017, will be compensated for this by a separate transitional arrangement from 2017 until the merger takes effect in 2020. The regional centre proposal is also excluded from the income equalisation scheme. This was a strong wish of the municipalities involved, and it has shown a way in the process of bringing together the municipalities. In recent years, municipalities have had good economic development. The real growth per capita was an average of 0.6 pst per year. in the years 2005 to 2013, while a total of 50 pst. more on average over the period 2013 to 2017. There is evidence that the government and the cooperation party have delivered on a municipal economy. There are many good examples of this – for example: Trondheim, who had a reduction in income below the red-green, and gets a growth of 1.2 pst. per capita with this government. It is strange to hear the representative, Lauvås, who criticises the arrangement of the government. He gives enough credit for adding to the municipalities, and I can give him a lot of support, but it is that the municipality from which Lauvås comes has four times as high growth in income per capita as this government compares with the time of the red-green government. I could imagine that he had also boasted of both the government and the cooperation party when he actually has such great growth in the economy of his municipality. In 2016, the municipal sector had the strongest operating profit in ten years, and there have never been registered as few municipalities in the ROBEK register as in 2017. This promises very well. We can certainly say that the local economy is in good condition, but of course the municipalities have to make sure to renew, simplify and improve their services. I hope that in the years to come, we can also have a great deal of focus on municipal structure changes. I think it's important to ensure good services in the municipalities. I also hope that we can get a good cooperation with the government to find good incentives that will strengthen this work in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e957	We are now dealing with one of the important parts of the state budget, namely the part that goes to Norwegian municipalities and county councils, which provides services to the inhabitants where people live, and in addition are solid and large jobs for many who make a formidable effort for the inhabitants of this country. Therefore, I believe that the press bench should be full today, because this is important for all residents in all the municipalities of Norway. When I listened to the discussion from the office, I began to wonder what kind of involvement we use. It's okay that one tries to win a black poll, it came from the Labour Party in particular. When you call the scheme of community decisions and the incomes are terribly poor – that's what the representative Rigmor Aasrud used as rhetoric: terrible bad manners – you have to go inside and look at the facts. If we start from the last red-green budget proposal, in 2013, we have added more money five years in a row. Ein felt that own arrangements were good, it was one in the debate in front of the state budget in 2013 – then it was a very happy arrangement. We've taken the money as our starting point, and we've increased it five times. If one of them puts the label really bad on it, I think it's just a signal sent out to the people in Norway that there's a little bit more to it than having a realistic estimate of what an actual person is talking about. Local authorities have received solid transfers during this period. 2016, which has been mentioned many times, has been a solid and good year. A return to the 1990s is needed to find a similar year. It's just too stupid to say that it's really bad. We know that Norwegian local politicians are ambitious, they have enormous expectations and a desire to provide good services to the inhabitants. Therefore, there is always a difference between what you want to do and what you want to do. But if a Norwegian local government debate is now held, we can guarantee that the discussion on cuts and reductions was several times larger in the red-green government period than he is in this period. I myself was in a local government and was on Thursday at a municipal budget debate. There was not a discussion about where to cut, but where to add, and in a municipality that manages without property tax, but still delivers good services in the care of the elderly – which I have registered has been a major topic in the debate today. It is no secret that we in the Progress Party are against property taxes. It's about the fact that that tax is socially unfair, he frames everyone, regardless of what you have of your ability to pay. He goes by the size of the dwelling, and the sums are starting to get huge. Therefore, we from this room are forced to make restrictions. The ambition of the Progress Party is that we should survive without the property tax, which is only 1.5 pst. of the income of the dwelling. You can't pick a big load.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e967	The recent budget survey of the Municipal Councils of Central and Eastern Europe shows that the county municipalities are facing a challenging year. More than half of the counties say the budget for 2018 is going to be more difficult than in previous years. The maintenance run on the county roads is not reduced and counties estimate that there is a shortage of nearly 4 billion. kr for the financing of the tunnel safety regulations. In regional development, there is a significant reduction in transfers from the country. The centre party considers that a shift in transfers to county municipalities is necessary, in particular to meet the major challenges in the field of transport. In their proposal for a national transport plan, transport conditions say that annual appropriations are needed between 1.5 and 2 billion. kr to resume the maintenance run on the county roads. Of increased transfers to county councils of 1.5 billion. kr in our alternative budget we have set of 1 billion. for upgrading county roads – as a start. Earlier in the debate, the Central Party has underlined the negative consequences of major cuts in transfers to regional development through the counties in 2018. The role of society's developers is not strengthened, but weakened. This is the reality, despite the allegations of the opposite of the right-wing budgetary comrades, the Progress Party, the Left and Christian People's Party. These batches claim to be in the Inward. 49 S for 2017-2018, as the Stortinget dealt with 7 December this year, that ‘there has been a growth in appropriations for county roads in excess of reduced transfers to regional development’. This I cannot find evidence for in the budget we have for treatment, or in those we have dealt with in recent years. The county councils are getting across a frame increase of 100 million this year. NOK when we remove the funds allocated to boat and ferry operations. That's 310 million. kr to regional development, after the Left and Christian People's Party had reduced the government's cut by 20 million. kr. In the current year's budget, it was set at 200 million. kr to the county roads in the government budget, while the cut in regional development funds was 400 million. kr. Appropriations for upgrading and renewal of the county roads are also made available from the Ministry of Transport budget. However, the funds allocated for 2018 are less than those allocated for 2017. Where is the claimed growth? Building a new government quarter will be one of the largest individual construction projects in Norway over the next ten years. I would ask the Council of State to note the views expressed in the vote by the majority of the Municipal and Administrative Committee. Representatives from the majority say that the government quarter needs to be planned as a signal project, focusing on climate-friendly solutions and on contributing to the development of the Norwegian supplier industry. The use of wood-based materials will be central in this context, says the majority. I hope it will be met.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e987	On the night of the election, I was interviewed by the Municipal Report as outgoing rapporteur. My message then was that the Stortinget must be aware that the municipalities are our biggest welfare operator, and therefore ensure that the municipalities have the freedom to act to solve the important tasks they are accomplishing today, and will continue to shoot forward. After having taught state and municipal skills and after ten years as a local politician, I know the importance that the state values and facilitates the job that municipalities do as a welfare provider, but also as a government practitioner, community developer and democratic arena. Since World War II, the municipalities have been given more and more tasks by the state. Good municipal economy is important not only for good schools, kindergartens and care for the elderly, but also for the other functions provided by municipalities – not least local self-government. If local authorities do not have room for priority but are managed from above by regulation and designation, the willingness to take an active part in the design of local communities is weakened. But does this government make sure that the municipalities have the ability to keep up with increasing tasks? Mr. Sanner informed the municipalities today that they have to prepare for worse times in the future. He urges to renew and streamline, and he wants to reduce taxes. I know that the local government sector is continuously working to innovate, operate cost-effectively and facilitate business development. It has to go on. Nevertheless, it is obvious that free income from the country is and will be the main source of income from the municipalities in the future. Therefore, it is not good that the framework government offers the municipalities, is too weak already in 2018. Many municipalities have a real decline in their free income because income growth does not keep pace with cost developments. The Labour Party sees the needs of the municipalities and strengthens the municipal sector by 3 billion. kr in its budget. We have a number of investments that improve the economy and strengthen the service provision. To bring forward one very important area: primary school. The government has now reluctantly accepted more teachers in school, but it is uncertain about and what municipalities have to finance by themselves. The Labour Party has introduced 1 000 new teachers in 2018. I'm concerned that we all have a government talking about robust municipalities, but not seriously prioritizing the welfare services that people around the country use.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1006	If we don't have a good place to live, it's hard to keep track of all the other challenges that have to arise in life. A good dwelling is therefore a fundamental asset of well-being. We have a proud tradition in Norway for people to own their own home, and it's important that we stick to it. Self-ownership democracy spreads power in our society, it provides a better living environment, and more people experience the self-esteem and predictability it gives to owning their own home. When the right came into the government offices in 2013, the start of new dwellings was too low. We've made it easier, faster and more reasonable to build homes. Now, housing is at the highest level in several decades. The planning processes have become faster and more efficient, and we have simplified the technical regulations, which reduce costs without going at the expense of quality. But we're not on target. We will continue to digitise and clear the legislation so that it is easier to use and understand. Simplification of rules reduces red tape, more efficient processes and reduces costs. Digitisation provides more efficiency, fewer errors and can release resources that can be used for other important tasks. We also have to remember that not everyone gets into the housing market and manages to get a home on their own. We have a responsibility to make sure that everyone has a safe and good housing situation. That's why we have as much room for housing social measures in the budget as we do. The number of homeless people is now record low, and the decline is greatest among children. It is a development that has not come about by itself. We have targeted both housing support and the start-up loan scheme, so that those who need the most also get the most. We have corrected the defects that were left by the Workers' Party, so that the housing support is now adjusted. We have strengthened the arrangements for low-income families, so that children do not grow up in poverty. Although, overall, we have a well-functioning housing market, we still have challenges. However, the solutions to these problems are no longer regulations or national housing taxes on secondary housing, as SV suggests. The solution is not that the Husbank should operate as a competitor to ordinary banks, as the Workers' Party suggests. It's an unnecessary intervention in a market that basically works well, and it's very little targeted for those people who need it the most. We have tried the solutions of the left-hand side before, with strong regulation of the housing market, where people paid for the dwelling below the table. It's a development we don't want to go back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1021	Unfortunately, the government is creating problems with the investment grant scheme for nursing homes and homes. Let me start with a quote from the KS when they addressed this issue during the hearing of the Health and Welfare Committee: ‘For municipalities with a high coverage in hospitals and other day care services, there are not only more, but better places the municipality needs to take up the service offer.’ KS will continue writing: ‘Communities need places of care meeting current and future standards and design requirements. This implies that some municipalities need the subsidy scheme mainly for rehabilitation and standard raising, while others need it for capacity-enhancement, depending on demographic and care profile.’;» This is very well described by the KS. But the government parties turn the deaf ear to – again. They're just concerned that there's going to be more places, not better places. This kind of thing the municipality has to do with sea, just like other renovations of municipal buildings, they mean from that edge. This is how they hope that it will be easier to obtain stars and glossy images in the political accounts. The working party is of high quality in healthcare services. That is why we clearly reject the government's phase-out of the rehabilitation and investment grant scheme, which will be completely gone after 2020. KS requests that the requirement for net growth be postponed to at least 2025 in order to allow municipalities to adapt. It takes time to prepare, plan and prepare for good conversion projects. This is actually a new attack on municipal framework conditions, just as we see in the grant scheme for particularly resource-intensive users. In order to enhance the quality of the municipal service, the Workers' Party has also – and for 2018 – had a significantly better municipal structure than the government parties. Otherwise – when I hear representatives of the government parties boasting of their transfers to Kommune-Norway, it is interesting to observe how they completely avoid mentioning that they spend well over 100 billion. more of the oil fund than the red-green could do when we were in government. Why do they avoid it? Yes, because it is far from the municipalities that have been the budget winners with the Right and the Advance Party. Municipalities should have had many more billions more to increase activity and capacity, with all the money Norway has, and still has, available. The least to demand is that the state continues to contribute to the modernisation of construction for our caretakers, while at the same time it needs to be built up and increased capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1041	Throughout generations, we have built a solid welfare society to be proud of. It is our task to continue this and to ensure that, through this budgetary work, we also provide a good basis for addressing the challenges we face and ensuring sustainable well-being for the future. Oil and gas revenues have fallen. The economic space for action is shrinking. The world is changing with new technologies and new ways of working. For the right, getting more people to work, better schooling, strengthening health and ensuring the whole of politics is the most important thing in the budget we are going to adopt today. Our country is long-term, with great variety and rich diversity. Governments and cooperation parties focus on strengthening growth power across the country. The focus on transport, tax relief, the income system for municipalities, health services, education, research and innovation is of great importance in achieving regional development and balance. I am glad that unemployment is now falling into all the counties. A business-friendly policy has been crucial to provide a good basis for growth in all parts of the country. I am particularly pleased that this government is paying attention to reducing distance and transport costs. The government's large-scale investment in infrastructure means a lot to people most and for equivalent living conditions across the country. Not least in our context, there is the investment on the county road network, the railway and ferry links. The opposition has been involved in regional development funds and the reduction in the post-2013 period of 792 million. kr. But in the same period, in fact, the bet on the county roads has escalated by nearly 1.4 billion. kr, and it is little that binds our country together as a good infrastructure and transport effort. That is a good priority for the districts. Growing communities live on profits, not on subsidies, said the Council of State. We need more profitable jobs in both rural and urban areas to maintain residence and well-being throughout the country. The government’s tax policy, research and innovation efforts and start-up support do well to do so. I am pleased that the machine tax and the transitional arrangements related to it have been abolished, for the reintroduction of the differentiated employer's fee for the transport and energy sectors, and not least for the creation of more government jobs outside Oslo. The implementation of local and regional reform is an important contribution to ensuring the quality of future service provision in District Norway. The government does not change Norway to change, but because Norway has changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1056	More money is allocated to municipalities each year, it is said. Yeah, it was just supposed to be missing. What state council and what government would do the opposite? Pension costs are increasing, wages are rising, demography is changing. So the fact that there is more money for the local government sector year after year is quite normal. However, I record that none of the government's representatives or gunmen here in the Chamber will talk about 2018. It's a municipal budget that says it's going to give you a $300 million operating space. kr – then the increase in the proportion of resource-intensive users is subtracted, and then you are at zero. In addition, there is a bill because the machine tax changes, which the municipalities have to plan for in the future. So I understand that you don't want to talk about 2018, but you're using some new calculations for what we've put behind us. I want to say something about two other things. The state is a large employer. Governments have a great responsibility for the government's wage-earnings contributing to the social development that we want. In previous state budgets, there has been a lot of evidence related to this — in the state budget. It's probably rationalized away. But it's possible to find numbers in other documents, and I have to say that I'm concerned about the leadership wage development that the council commented on in our reply. There are huge pay orders for leaders in the state, and I think the Council of State seems to be taking something easy on it. Similarly, there is a negative trend in equal pay in the state sector. That's not good. We need a government and a government council that prioritises equal pay in pay terms, and it's hard to see that it's happened lately. Finally, I would like to challenge the Council of State to say something about a matter that has not received much attention in this budget, but which is quite serious. ESA has raised a case with Norway where it is said that the tax exemption provided by municipalities, county councils and health companies is to be regarded as public support. If the government does not oppose this would mean massive privatisation of the public sector in Norway. In that case, we are forced to be those who go first in Europe. There's no reason. A government that has said that it is necessary to use the space for action in the EEA Agreement should really stand up for this, saying that it is not appropriate for Norway to follow what ESA is addressing, and to ensure that we can still operate the public sector in the same way as we have done before. This is serious, and it will mean a lot to the whole organisation of the public sector if we don't stand up to ESA in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1075	The municipalities are the most important place for good welfare services, and in many fields it works quite well – you get kindergarten when you need it, you get a place at the permanent staff, you get a school place for the children. But we have some big holes. One of the worst holes is for those who struggle with mental distress. Every five young people today are struggling with mental distress. Anorexia has become the third leading cause of death among young girls in Europe, and more young boys die of suicide than in traffic. Many older people struggle with loneliness and depression. Heavy mental disorders are spreading. Very many people get very good help in the specialist health service, but there you have to be very sick to get in, and with the constant efficiency cuts from the government you have to be even more sicker. But what about all those who are not healthy enough to be healthy, but not sick enough to make room? They don't get any help. What about the one who's finally been treated for heavy mental illness, who's going home to the municipality and wants to get a place in society? She meets very many places by a black hole in the municipal service. There is nothing that meets them, except loneliness, loneliness and no help. Several municipalities have tried smart things, and we know what works: there are low-threshold mental health services – conversation groups where you can at least meet someone to talk to, direct contact with a psychologist, so that instead of falling completely apart you can get the one conversation that can make you get back in. It can prevent severe plagues, severe difficulties. This is a group that has been down priorities for too long. It is a little special to be new at Stortinget, because I have heard that all the parties are talking about this in celebrations – mental health services – but the reality is that the offer is not available in the municipalities. So I expected that we might be together in this room and propose a great escalation for low-threshold mental health services to the municipalities. That is why SV proposes 200 million. kr for a start-up in 2018. I have to say that I'm surprised, at least I'm disappointed, because it's left with the party numbers. Tax rates for the richest, it can always be a priority, but not for those who are left alone when they come home from the specialist health service, or who are not referred to getting there – older people who are struggling with depression, young people who are struggling with mild eating disorders, or very common people who need a hand or someone to talk to. They're all alone in Norway. That's a shame, and that's why I'm proud of SV's proposal for an escalation plan for low-threshold mental health services in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1090	Today I have not written an article, but I brought Sogn Avis from Saturday. I could actually have taken any newspaper from the pile that was at home when I came home from the Buenos Aires and WTO negotiations, because all the papers say about budget cuts. All the newspapers say about how the municipalities in Sogn are struggling to get the budget together. Saturday it happened to be Balestrand. They're gonna cut $9 million. kr in a small municipality with less than 2000 inhabitants. The rapporteur says: ‘This is the most demanding budget I have been in, and I have been in the local government since 2003. The cuts go all over the organisation. It will be cut in care, administration and kindergarten and school.» He points to reduced transfers, reduced income from property taxes, which the government has today boasted of being so great. He points to a municipal economy that is miserable. It is difficult to sit on the right and right of the posts from the government party and how they boast about the economy of the local government sector, how they boast about the machine tax, which he has been called, the property tax, which the municipalities have had. The municipality of Årdal, my neighboring municipality, is losing 25 million. kr. I hope that the Council of State in this debate will tell you how the municipality of Årdal and other municipalities with 4,000 to 5,000 inhabitants will cut 25 million. kr. It is not provided, it is not consistent. I used to sit in the same ministerial chair as the Council of State now, and then we always had a deal of consequences, not least district policy consequences, if one were to make big changes. We didn't just let them into a budget and pinch them with fingers, and then the municipalities would take it on a tight arm. How should municipalities be compensated? There's a question that we need to get answers to today. This has been a matter of transitional arrangements. There has been no permanent compensation to the municipalities. There's a lot of people out there struggling to get the budget together. Today we expect an answer. One also boasts of the regional convergence and municipal convergence. Well, today, Sogn and Fjordane and Hordaland are in charge and are going to start negotiating. If the people of Sogn and Fjordne meet the same wall as the people of the County did when negotiating, it may be a lot of fun to join both in Sogn Avis and other locals in the coming period when negotiating how much to move to Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1108	After four years of over-exploitation and large deficits, the government has finally tightened up the use of oil money. It is necessary for Norway to have a healthy economy. The State's MasterCard has gone hot, and the bill will be sent to future generations. Economists and social debaters have acknowledged that the government is showing a lack of accountability, but in the air there is an unanswered question: Who is pushing the bill over? The government will legislate a minimum requirement for basic personnel in kindergarten, and we all agree that it is important to have a strong team around the youngest. But then it was with the money that comes with it. The proposal has major implications for both Fredrikstad, Sarpsborg and several other municipalities. KS has said that the reform is underfunded by a total of 1 billion. kr. In Sarpsborg, we get an extra $52 million. kr per year. The result of government policy is cut into other municipal services. In practice, it simply means that the municipalities do not have the room for action they should have. But it won't stop there. It is also cut into the resource-requiring services scheme. It eats up the action space. For a long time we feared a change of currency, as the government proposed. The government is increasing the expenditure, and at the other end they are removing the revenue. When the property tax on works and uses is removed without being fully compensated, we lose important income. A reasonable level of the use of oil money cannot be applauded when the bill is pushed over to the municipality. It is the municipalities that create a modern school, safe working days for the elderly, good kindergartens and good growing-up conditions for children and young people. I understand that municipalities find it difficult to give priority to prevention when the government itself is not willing to give priority to it in its budgets. I miss targeted public health measures, and I miss a local space to do the same in the municipalities. The municipal fund must not be the new oil fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1121	The Ministry says that in the municipal proposal for 2019 they will propose schemes and instruments that can stimulate further work on the municipal reform. I want to give the Council of State an opportunity to make this concrete. I assume that the Council of State has taken note of the decisions taken in Stortinget on 7 December this year. The majority of municipalities were forced to join forces during this large-scale period, and the use of the income system was also blocked, as was the case with the changes in 2017, where there were municipal mergers and not equivalent welfare services, which justified the changes made. There is not only a narrow framework that causes half of the municipalities to notify redundancies of employees. It is very unfortunate that transfers to the municipalities are redeployed on the basis of decisions on municipal mergers. The municipality framework shall provide Norwegian municipalities with equivalent opportunities to provide services to the inhabitants, not being redeployed as a form of incentive for those following the government's objective of fewer municipalities. For 2018, it is set at 254 million. DKK over the community grant to cover the costs of regional centre grants and as compensation to merged municipalities that received reduced basic and small municipality grants as a result of changes in the income system of the municipalities. This is the money that would have gone to cover school and care for the elderly in the municipalities. Now they are used instead to lubricate the municipal reform. Together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, we promote a proposal to wind up the scheme of regional centre grants and to include the allocated funds in the population grant, so that they can be broken down according to objective criteria in the cost-balancing process. A number of municipalities have reacted to the simultaneous loss of allocations through the 2018 regional centre grant scheme, INGAR, because the regional centre grant is included in the calculation. I see that the majority, in an annotated form, asks the government to keep the regional centre grant outside the allocation criteria for INGAR. I understand the reactions of the municipalities concerned and therefore also the desire for correction, but the central party's primary position is that the regional centre grant is a poorly justified grant that should be phased out. There are a wide range of regional centres in municipalities with 8 000 inhabitants or more who do not enjoy this grant because they are maintained as their own municipalities. It is difficult to understand this discrimination. Take, for example: Verran and Steinkjer: If they had joined together in 2012, for example, they had not had one ear. One has never succeeded in obtaining a justification for this criterion. Why is it only going to regional centres that were merged right in June 2017? Why is the number of ‘about 8 000 inhabitants’ selected and based on what criteria? I hope the Council of State can answer these questions. And the hack-in-plate comment of the Council of State on how many central party municipalities that have joined voluntarily is not an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1139	I am a little surprised when I hear the representative Heidi Greni talking so much about having equivalent services in the municipalities. So I'm thinking, what about the machine tax? He was actually an obstacle to just that. If a machine tax is removed, the State will receive more tax revenue and thus be allocated to the municipalities in a better way, while increasing the competitiveness of the enterprises. And what about the force income? Would the Center Party now like to make a Document 8 suggestion that we change the power income of municipalities, since they want us to have equivalent services in municipalities? It's about having a system that doesn't provide leadership and we're going to justify a municipal merger, but at least we don't have to have a system that prevents a municipal merger. I think there's a lot of good work to be done in the years to come to get equivalent services in the municipalities, and there's a lot of income we can look at, which is a hindrance to that. So I also think, to Rigmor Aasrud, who lacks a debate on the budget for next year: that is really what this is about, and that is why we are here. There is a positive real growth even if many municipalities wear out. We haven't heard anything about this, is cut off from the Worker's Party by 300 million. kr for ideal and private kindergartens. Who's gonna pay the bill? Is there an extra large bill for families with children now? Are the municipalities going to take that bill? Or there's a lot of little kids who don't want a kindergarten to go to, when the Labour Party cuts the payoffs by $300 million. kr for ideal and private kindergartens? I also hope that we can get an answer to that in this debate. Otherwise, it's interesting to hear that the big question from the Workers' Party is about the increase in transfers to volunteer centres. If this is the big question from the Labour Party in the debate, I think that we are on the right track with the municipal arrangement that the government has presented. The solutions for which we get multiple numbers in Stortinget today are a good arrangement for Kommune-Noreg.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1152	To carry out a green shift, which more or less everyone believes, municipalities and counties must be able to finance climate adaptation and climate work. Then there must be money with the good words, otherwise it is simply nothing worth. Climate change is here now, with more rainfall, more pace and race. Therefore, the transport budget must also reflect increased appropriations, and this has been achieved by SV. We have also proposed that the municipalities receive a grant of 50 million. kr for climate adaptation and climate work in municipalities, i.e. earmarked funds. There is a great need for municipalities and county councils to have competence in the areas of environment, biodiversity and climate. In my old job as a natural film producer, I traveled a lot around the country. I saw nature and people locally, in close proximity, and I saw obvious defects from results in the field. In addition, when the overall regional planning is weakened, such as state-of-the-art cabin plans, etc., and the County Environmental Protection Department is clipped, there is a danger. It's become much more clear. This is a desired development of the Right Party Government. The examination of objections from the Ministry of the Environment to the Ministry of the Communal simply asked the County to raise fewer objections. They want municipalities to take greater responsibility for land disposal and development projects. But then these municipalities must have competence, which only about half of the municipalities have today, as far as I have gained experience. At the same time, they are responsible for managing 80 pst. of the areas in the country. Here's something that's failing. Therefore SV has submitted a proposal which reads as follows: «The government is asked to set requirements for competence in the local government sector in the areas of environment, biodiversity and climate.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1166	It's a rather imaginative story that comes from the left side of this debate, because it's not true that the local economy is worse now than it was before. On the contrary, municipalities are better able to provide better services to people than they were under the red-green government. The municipalities have had a stronger real growth in their free incomes with the Right in Government than they had under the Red-Green Government. The representative, Mr Greni, the representative, Mr Asphjell and I have one thing in common, and that is that we all come from the South-Tronde County. If we look at our own home state, we have also experienced an average real growth of 1.4 pst. under the red-green government, while there has been a real growth of 2.4 pst. under the Right-Critical Party Government. At the same time, the appeals made by both the representative, Mr Greni and Mr Asphjell, do not stand as a believer. Not only that: the address paper spoke to all the rapporteurs in Trondheim, except for Trondheim, before the elections. On 23 August this year they wrote that 36 out of 47 rapporteurs in Trøndelag believed that the situation was better in their municipality in 2017, than it was in 2013 under the red-green government. Only three rapporteurs said that the situation was worse. In general, the rapporteurs of the Trondelag of the Workers' Party and the Centre are, so it may be time for the representatives to start listening to their own local politicians. We are going to meet a future where the economic space will be smaller, as the revenue from oil and gas goes down. It requires that we make clear political priorities. Increased use of public money cannot and should not be the solution to all problems. We need more people who contribute to the state budget rather than living off the state budget, so we have money to distribute to those who need it. That is why we need to facilitate the creation of new jobs by businesses and workers, and that is precisely why the government is investing in research, innovation, infrastructure that builds our country together, and growth-promoting tax relief. The Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, which have intended to increase taxes, is not exactly an alliance for value creation. When the private sector is converted, the public sector also has to renew itself. We need to continue the work of removing unnecessary bureaucracy in order to free resources for welfare services to people. We still have to keep a high pace in the digitisation of the public sector, so that we get more user-friendly and efficient services – just so that every municipality can spend time and money on creating good services for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1179	The review tone of this government and the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party is that now everything is going so much better. We have heard that in previous budget debates, and we hear that today too. And once again, I think there's reason to ask: better for who? For differences in Norway, the distance between those with a lot and those with a little is increasing. It's in itself deeply serious for a society. It's going to be a worse society for everyone when the differences increase. But it's also serious to them it hits, and those who stay standing. Recently we could read in a recent Nav report that the proportion of low income in Norway is rising. The lowest-income have not participated in income growth in Norway in the last three years. Children’s families now experience a real wage drop. There are 100,000 children growing up in poverty, and that number is rising rapidly. So it's not going to be better for these. It's the ones that stay out there, it's the ones that stay out when the richest ones leave. This needs to be resolved in municipalities, but it is also a national responsibility to address it. It is a responsibility we see that the government does not take. They will not increase child welfare, which is the single measure that both benefits and ensures that fewer children grow up in poverty. They weaken the House Bank, so that fewer people with low incomes can get help to get into the housing market – and here we also hear that there is no need for measures that will slow down the wild housing speculation that has driven up prices and that have created a housing market that further separates our cities and reinforces the differences in society. The government also cuts into housing support. Despite increased population, more poor and increased expenditure, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party believe that there is a need for less housing support. Well, if they had taken one trip to the Poor House here in Oslo or to the Church's Bymission offer, they would have seen that there is a great need for increased housing support, and it's the municipalities that have to take the bill when the government cuts. The government has also cut the child supplement for disabled people, which affects thousands of children, and they increase the price of kindergarten. There are many families with children who really needed to get better, but who don't get it with this budget. I represent Oslo, and I can tell that the joy was great when, before the elections, the Council of State could promise an area lift for Søndre Nordstrand, and the disappointment was all the greater when it turned out that it was 4 million. kr for all that part of the city. SV proposes a large-scale uplift for the areas that need it, and more measures to reduce child poverty – because we need to reduce the differences, and because we believe that there are not low-paid families who need to tighten the life span when we see that the space for action is getting smaller.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1196	I must start this post by referring to the representative Nicholas Wilkinson of the Socialist Left Party. He talks about a large black hole in the municipal sector in Norway and refers to a total lack of commitment to mental health, as if something new has arisen in recent years. I recommend the representative Wilkinson to take one Red Bull less in the morning and rather put on a little more money and a little more long-term effort. For the last four years, 1 billion has been allocated. kr more to strengthen exactly what Wilkinson from SV wanted. From the fact that there were 13 fewer health sisters in 2013, there are now 500 more jobs in the municipal sector. Health sisters, midwives and psychologists, just those in contact with those in need of mental health care. In addition, psychologists have received referral rights from 2015, which the red-green government did not manage to give them. Psychiatric HealthProfessors and the Change Factory have entered the state budget. They do a great job out there among children and young people and give them a language and an understanding of what mental health and mental health are. For the first time in Norway, we have established a mental health strategy. The four majority parties now in office have done that. Together, we have also created a majority for a stepping-up plan for mental health aimed at children and young people. I just have to say welcome after – 200 million. kr to a escalating plan is to land on another planet. What was left of the red-green government was a public health law and a health center here and there. It was an interaction reform which, at best, was half-finished. Psychiatric and drugrelated interventions only come into force from this year. There was a lot to do after the previous government. Interaction reform is, of course, a chapter of sorrow in itself. The ambition of the red-greens was to build 15,000 new places in the care of the elderly. The result was 2000 places. Co-operative housing was excluded from grant schemes and one did not use the diversity or all the actors to build capacity. Here it has to be dynamic, and we have to put all the actors into action. In addition, we can add an escalating plan to the drug field. 2.4 B.C.E. NOK over five years is a lot of money, but a lot is needed out there. So 200 million. kr – Sorry SV, but it is jumping for Wirkola.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1211	After the representative, Kjeseth, who recommended Wilkinson to take a Red Bull less, I'll be careful to say that it might be okay to take a little less Møller's tran, because someone has lifted those who have been sitting at the bottom of the health policy table, it's this government. This has been done in both the municipal and specialist health services. The first councillor Höie did, was to remove the golden rule, which meant that patients with mental disorders would be equivalent in a line to those with common somatic disorders. This has meant that more people have been treated. We were also the government that was concerned with mental health in the municipalities and gave grants to psychologists in the municipalities. Now the number has tripled. We started with 130, and now it's actually 410. It's the escalation plan of the times in the areas of mental health and alcohol, and at least it's the ones that need the worst in this society. We are proud of the work on mental health and alcohol. As far as the budget is concerned, I see that the black paint of both the municipal and county layout is not credible. It has been established that the municipalities have gained more real growth in free income during this government than in the previous one. It's hard to talk away from it. From 2005 to 2013, the annual growth rate was 0,6 pst. per capita, while from 2013 to 2017 it was and is of 0,9 pst. There is no evidence to suggest that growth in free income does not cover demography and retirement. I want to see those numbers. There is a lot of talk about money in such a debate, and very little attention is paid to what the municipalities actually do with the money, what the room for action the municipalities have, and how the money can be used smartly and well. That is why I want to praise my municipality of residence, Drammen, which was one of the first municipalities in which – in cooperation with Nav – the project "lease to ownership". Social welfare recipients were given the power to own their own apartment. They were first out with free core time in kindergartens for families with low incomes. They are only now out with free SFO for children in areas in the municipality where there are large numbers of children with a migrant background. I wonder very much what the fear of the community reform is. It is about structure, but I feel that in the debate there is very little talk of content and quality to the citizens of the municipality, which is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1224	Norway is a good country to live in, with welfare schemes like few other countries. A lot of people think that being a Norwegian citizen is drawing the winning lottery. It's going well for Norway. The government has set us free through a demanding period of dramatic falls in the oil price and increased unemployment, especially in relation to the petroleum industry. Now it goes the right way. Economic growth is on its way up, and unemployment is on its way down. The industry is reporting reasons for optimism, including in oil and gas. The government is pursuing a policy that provides a good framework for business. It is important for employment and growth throughout the country. In June 2017, the Stortinget made a historic decision when a decision was taken to merge municipalities. The number of municipalities decreased from 428 to 354, and a new region division resulted in 11 counties. The aim of the community reform and regional reform is to make a distinction that is better adapted to the societal changes we face, and to facilitate a strengthening of welfare. The change in communication relations has been the cause of municipal convergence over time, including this one, which is the first large since the 1960s, but we are still the country in the Nordic region that has the most municipalities. We're becoming more residents in Norway, we've passed 5.2 million. By 2030, the predictions are that we're rounding 6 million. But the people's eye is unevenly distributed across the country. The trend is that there are big cities and agglomerations growing. What we see is that district municipalities are missing residents, and there are several older people. An important district action is to have good infrastructure in the form of good roads, well-developed broadband and access to good collective solutions such as bus, track, ferry and aircraft. This government has provided a historic commitment to transport. Since 2013, the licenses have been increased by 60 pst., and the maintenance run on the road and the railway is a high priority. We see that the maturity is on its way down. Transport is an important district agency, which allows people to live in the districts, and one now experiences that business is investing as never before because transport measures make urban and working areas bigger. Never before has it been so hard to maintain what we have, while building new and modern infrastructure. This government sees the importance of building infrastructure for growth and development throughout the country. It is well visible in the 2018 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1239	This is not a municipal budget that is being complained about doping control, so it is not certain it would have been so wrong with a little Redbull in this case. I agree when the Council of State goes up and says we have to give room to the local politicians. Yeah, that's what we have to do. But that is what is not happening today with the draft budget of the Council of State and with the vote of the majority. That's exactly what's not happening. That is precisely why it has right and right-wing party rapporteurs around the whole country in these times and votes for property tax. Why do they vote for property tax in their municipalities? Because they need the money. They need the money to get enough nursing homes, to pay for leisure clubs, to pay for the well-being that they see is necessary to give their inhabitants. That is why the Right and Advance Party rapporteurs and local government representatives sit above the whole country in these times and vote in favour of property tax. Short to what was to be the parade of the Progress Party, when they were going to red tape the country. I heard the representative from Engen-Helgheim – he is not in the room now, but he was in the past – saying that this was the most important thing. Yes, then I think that the Advance Party, the government and Engen-Helgheim should take a look at the figures that show that the employment in the bureaucracy has taken place after they came into government. They haven't been anywhere near doing what they promised. I heard the representative Trellevik say hello to my own municipality, Marker, and say that there they had it economically amazing. There was no way how great it had been. I think you should have a talk with those who live in my village, with those who rule and stand, and who are inside this. Once they get 1.7 pst. increase for 2018, there is no particular gigantic space for school, care and health bets. That means cut. If we agree on this government's own number, which says that we have a wage and price increase on give or take 2.5 pst, it's not 1.7 pst. Very much to boast of. To take another example, the health of the municipality in Hordaland had received 2.7 million. kr more with the proposal of the Labour Party. So to the claim that we black paint -- we don't. But we have other priorities. We put school, health, care and well-being first. We just record that the government continues to say that tax cuts are more important. That's the political difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1250	The municipalities are the foundations of the community, they say. Yes, that is why I am pleased that the budget we are going to adopt will enable the municipalities to strengthen important welfare services. These include strengthening the provision of health care to children and young people, strengthening early interventions and ensuring a better welfare provision for drug addicts. It is the quality and availability of services that build trust between municipalities and residents. I have to say that it is amazing to hear the Central Party talk about local economy, centralisation ghosts and government treatment of the districts when we know, as we have heard many times here, that in 2016 the municipal sector had the strongest operating result in ten years and there have never been so few municipalities in the ROBEK register. With all due respect, this is in stark contrast to the picture the opposition is trying to draw, shown by the Working Party and the Center Party. The government also contributes to a growth in the total income of the local government sector of 4.6 billion. kr. Where the opposition speaks, the government delivers. In this budget, the government strengthens the social security network so that fewer people will fall outside and more people can be lifted. 300 million. kr of the growth of municipal free incomes will ensure a better provision for drug addicts, so that more people are helped to master everyday life and work. It's a good investment. 200 million. Early work in kindergarten and school is a good boost and very long-term. The government is also committed to prevention measures for children and young people and families, such as health and school health services or other prevention measures. As the representative Kjeseth said a little while ago, a good childhood lasts a lifetime. As citizens, we are all concerned with the quality of the municipal services we receive, and we make high demands. But few of us seem to be willing to pay more for the services. I remind you again that when the Workers' Party made an election with promises of an increase in the tax bill of 15 billion. kr to the population of Norway – yes, then there was a cash response from the voters: No. Although municipalities have a good financial framework, there is still a need for prioritisation and good use of resources. Service innovation and efficiency need to get higher on the agenda, in which case it is about simplifying, renewing and improving services. With this budget, the government will continue to do that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1263	We are politicians who are responsible for financing the well-being that we all want. And it's quite right, as the representative Tveiten Benestad says, that it's quality and availability that determine whether people are satisfied. We also need a modern well-being – of course we do. We need modern schools, we need an elderly care that is there when people need it, we need child protection with competent employees, and we need a municipal sector and a government sector that is involved in the green shift, which has the competence to meet the climate challenges ahead, and that manages to build good communities. That's why SV prioritizes this higher than the government does. I hear you're now going up and boasting of a bet of 100 million here and 200 million there. But when SV adds 100 or 200 million to top, then it's nothing. Then it's small money, then it doesn't matter, then it's over. I record that money is important when the government parties and the majority parties talk about it, but when others give higher priority, it is not important. Increased differences in the country are not value creation. It's a loss of value, and it's a loss for many people who get bad lives. More people will be able to participate in the creation of value if they get a better life and can use their powers to acquire skills and get work. In the area of housing, it is serious. I note that several representatives are up and say that the housing support system has been strengthened. Well, there's more than ten thousand fewer now than before – who get to cover a smaller part of their living expenses – and there's two important reasons why this happens: one is that the unsatisfied have fallen out, so no new unsatisfied people get housing support. The old sheep – a temporary scheme – for one and a year at a time. It's completely inadequate. The second is that the different elements of the housing stock have not been adjusted to reflect the gap that has arisen over the last five to six years. We spend less money on housing now than we did in 2009. It doesn't matter. Then it's not a reinforced social housing policy we have, we have a weakened social housing policy. It goes right into the home of some of those who really have a hard time, and where we also know that income has even gone back in recent years. This increases the evil differences. It's completely unnecessary, because it's enough money if only the majority would have been willing to take the fight for the many who are struggling in society, and not just for the few of the richest.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1272	I would like to comment on some articles. The representative of the Hagebakken was involved in grants for new hospitals. We have a grant scheme to improve health care facilities. We've had it for years. With several years' notice, the municipalities have been informed that it will now be phased out. If the municipalities are unable to use a grant scheme that is located there, year in and year out, but will wait until the end and then complain, we will in some way never proceed to upgrade. This is an important tool to get rid of the latest upgrades that are now needed. But more importantly, we have to have more places to live in. Now the municipalities have to get in place to meet all the new older people that we get in the future. Then I think it's especially when the red-green criticises that it's a small cut for resource-intensive users. It encouraged the red-green themselves to suggest when they were in government. If they had never suggested it myself, I could have agreed that you could criticise, but it would be a bit like throwing a stone in a glass house. To what the representative Wilkinson and others have been in: I think it's perfectly okay for the opposition to paint black when there's reason, but there should be a limit to what's decent. All figures showed that after eight red-green years, there was a decrease in both treatment, prevention and follow-up in municipalities in terms of drug use and mental health. That's why we had to grab it. We demanded that all municipalities have municipal psychologists. The other parties did not want that. We put in place a grant scheme that now gives us psychologists in a lot of municipalities. In the case of health centres, there was a decrease in employees under the red-green. We've increased it now, and we've got more than 500 employees in the school health care and health care centres. This is important grip that we've taken. Now we are working on a stepping-up plan, and in particular we have developed a strategy for the mental health of children and young people. The reason why we've done so much in this field is that it was down-prioritized over eight years. The representative Kaski says that there are more people who have problems and who have little. Yeah, we've got almost 80,000 new people entering our country in the last few years. They live on transfers in the first years. Until they get to work, it's clear that we get a lot of people who have very little. That's why we're so busy getting this in place. And again, 36 pst. fewer homeless people under our government – that is a good number.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1288	The representative of Lauvås almost shouts out from the pulpit of Stortingen that they don't paint black. Well, at least you can say that the reality description the Workers' Party has, and the one they give, doesn't believe the voters. The Labour Party lost the election, the bourgeois parties were re-elected. A year ago the Workers' Party had approx. 36 pst. on polls, now they have 26 pst. I don't know if I'm going to give any kind advice, but it's certainly obvious that the voters don't recognize themselves in the description that the Workers' Party and several other parties give. Yes, we have unsolved challenges in Velferds-Norway. We have. But we have, as many people have been involved, made sure that those who are struggling with alcohol and mental health have been given a boost. The waiting times are short, the school has been strengthened, the local economy has become more liberal. Yes, it's demanding to be a local politician, but you can't get past the fact that the local economy is strengthened. Liv Signe Navarsete has obviously read locals. She should have done the same when she was a municipal minister. The reality is that Balestrand, one of the municipalities that was pulled out, had 0.4 pst. growth in the eight red-green years and has a growth of about 1 pst. from 2013 to 2016. And it's a municipality that has an economy of 129 pst, if you look at the expenditure-corrected income. Yes, there are still challenges, and there is a need to prioritise in the future, but it has improved in and for the municipalities. Then the representative takes up again the question of the income system and volunteering in the community reform. We discussed this for almost ten hours a week ago. Then I said that the municipal reform will continue because it is important for the citizens, important for the services, but of course within the framework that the Stortinget has drawn up. It is not that the income system is used to promote the municipal reform, the income system was changed because it was an obstacle to municipalities that wanted to join together. Municipalities that merged were penalised in several cases. As a result, the income system changed. And as the Christian People's Party refers to, this will of course be evaluated. Finally, with regard to tax exemptions for municipalities and questions from ESA on State aid, we have a selection of parties working in the action room. They present their position in the new year, and then of course we will take that issue very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1305	First of all, I just want to make it clear that in the north, it was the government parties that lost the election. Business in the Nordic countries is going pretty well, and some people claim it's because of the government. I guess the truth is that it's in spite of the government. It is shown that the county councils have more to go with, but in the Nordic countries we get less – almost 300 million. kr less from 2020. It'll be about. 1 billion. kr less in four years. There's no bet on Nordland County. The reduction is probably part of the government’s job number one, centralisation of Norway. But the marine food industry, the industry, travel life and the sense industries are doing well in Northern Ireland, and many of these actors are not on a highway, but on a country road. In Northern Ireland, we have over 4,000 km of county road, and many of the food operators are also dependent on ferries to get the goods into the world or people to the businesses. The maintenance run on the county roads is large, and the centre part will bet much more than the government on the county roads. We've invested 500 million. kr in 2017 and continues the bet by 1 billion. kr in the next year's budget. Nor has the centre party voted in favour of the redeployment from Northern and other districts, which means that the municipality of Nordland has to adapt to a reduction of almost 300 million. kr annually from 2020. In addition, we've allocated 100 million. kr more for ski protection and 50 mill. kr to strengthen bridges lying as bottlenecks along the roads. From the Nordic countries, the resources we have in this country are being put into focus. There is lime from Velfjord, the fisheries in Øksnes, the industry in Glomfjord and salmon from Lovund, and all of these need good highways. But the solution to create values of these resources is more district policy — not less. More district policy is not a form of emergency aid. It's investment for increased value creation, it's investment roads, people, business development and knowledge. It is an essential development to bring the whole country into use. And we need to use the whole country to maintain the welfare of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1316	The representative Heidi Greni has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1321	The council said something like that the voters do not recognize themselves in the Workers' Party's description of Velferds-Norway – that it shows the election results. I think I'm going to follow that logic and say that at least the voters are familiar with the Central Party's description of centralisation policy – that shows the election result quite clearly. The representative Mr. Örmen Johnsen called for more debate on the content of the municipal reform, that there was too little talk of content and quality. Yes, there is no content and quality in the community reform. The transfer of authority involved in the municipal reform is the right of marriage and some rules for flagging. No one has seen that it has anything to do with the transfer of authority or more power to local democracy. I register that the government parties will discuss 2016. Then I just have to say that 2016 was an extraordinary year. As the Council of State and I agreed when we discussed the municipal proposition, it was the tax conversion that made it extraordinary.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1330	The government doesn't want a worse municipal economy, it wants municipalities to have more room for action, and they say it's a solid municipal economy. They say unemployment goes down, and districts are doing well. In Finnmark, Loppa and Gamvik are the major losers in the government's draft government budget. Small municipalities that do not want to merge will be punished. The rapporteur in Loppa had the hope that the Storting would coerce Loppa with Alta. People in Loppa clearly refused to merge with Alta. While most municipalities are covered by the price increase, it is cut in Finnmark. This is reflected in the overview published by the County of Finnmark on its websites. Many of the smallest municipalities get the biggest cut. The valve must cut 3.4 pst., which is about 5 million. kr. Gamvik, Hasvik and Berlevåg follow the heels of the list of those who must tighten up the next year. In Finnmark, there's only one municipality growing next year, and it's Hammerfest. It seems to me that an income system has been created to punish the smallest municipalities. That's almost how to understand that the punishment comes because you've been skeptical about a community merger. They've tried to stimulate the economy for larger units. It will defuse the small municipalities. The municipalities in Finnmark can get a little more money afterwards. There has been a new model for the so-called discretionary grant, where the County is waiting to distribute the last 12 million. kr. It's going to go to those who need it the most. However, this is not enough to change the picture that the municipalities in Finnmark are going to get worse than the average. The growth in the local government sector is at 2,6 p.m., which will be enough to cover wage and price growth. Finnmark needs to be careful with 0.7 pst. lower growth, i.e. a real decline. According to the County Council's table, the expected price and salary growth will eat up the increase for 18 out of 19 municipalities, so that only Hammerfest will win. The Progress Party and the Right say that things are going wrong in District Norway, but the reality is that in many of the municipalities in Finnmark, municipal politicians are afraid that they will be able to carry out the tasks they are going to do. There is a confusion in some municipalities that are not good, and we have some politicians who do not know their poor advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1345	The representative Karin Andersen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1350	There is no government that has had so much money to go with like this government. That's been going on for over five years, so it's probably time to start comparing with other people's draft budgets and how to dispose of the money we now have at our disposal. There is no doubt that the budgets are now centralising and that they are increasing the differences. It is a choice that the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have made. I react especially when the representative Kjenaas Kjos talks about particularly resource-intensive users. Yes, it is absolutely right that someone has proposed changes for these before, but it doesn't have to say that when you have more money at your disposal than ever, that's where you have to cut. On the contrary, this should be expenditure that the Advance Party had taken extra good care of. I record that you do not, because these are expenses that the municipalities have to take, and that are for people who are not able to take care of their own needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1357	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, had the word twice before and got the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1362	We still hear the representatives of the government parties here only talk about 2016 and 2017. But that's the way that when the local authorities get 3.6 billion. kr, it goes away 2.6 billion. kr for demography and retirement. Then there is another billion, and then we support the escalation in the drug field, we support early intervention in kindergarten and school, and we support prevention measures for children and young people and families. But then it's 300 million. kr, and that is exactly the same sum with which the municipalities are charged, in additional costs for the resource-intensive users. Then it must be allowed to say that it is possible to prioritize differently, as the other parties have done. So to Trellevik: Yes, we cut in the private kindergartens, because we want to be able to make demands on those kindergartens, if, among other things. opening time. It's not now, and then they actually get more paid for the problems than the municipal ones. That's not right.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1369	The representative Mari Holm Lønseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1374	Even though the representative Karin Andersen goes up to the pulpit several times and says that the disabled do not get housing support, it does not become more true for that reason. Over the last four years, we have made very important changes in housing support that make it more targeted and that also maintain its real value over time. The number of beneficiaries of housing support has decreased, but those receiving housing support receive more. Once again: the more times Karin Andersen goes up to the pulpit and says it – it won't be any more true for that reason. Let me do three things we've done to target housing more in these years. Firstly, we have up-to-date information on income, so that we get the right housing support and do not get large repayment demands. Secondly, housing support for families with children has been increased, and income support for housing expenditure has also been increased, so that families with children have more. Thirdly, it has also been made easier for book collectors to get housing support, so that refugees also receive housing support. [[The President clubs.]] It's been very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1382	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1387	The representative Holm Lønseth pointed out that I came with a complaint song from this pulpit earlier today. I would like to remind you that the Lamentations are a poetic book in the Bible, which expresses sorrow at the destruction of Jerusalem by the Babylonians and the suffering of the prophet because of the pain and misfortune of the people, and where they pray for the city and the people. Yes, we will see, after this budget has been adopted, how much pain it has caused both people and cities in Norway. It remains to be seen. The working party's alternative budget for 2018 is 2 billion. kr more to the municipalities. This means that there will be more money for the municipalities of the country – for all the municipalities of the country – both for kindergarten, for school and for care for the elderly. For example, where I live, in the municipality of Orkdal, which is going to join Agdenes, Meldal and Snillfjord, the Workers' Party's alternative budget means NOK 7 432 000 more per year. This will mean a better quality of the welfare services we have – no less quality and no less money. This is the reality of the 2018 budget. The representative Holm Lønneth referred to the ‘It’s OK to No’ article of the Address Paper. The rapporteurs in Trøndelag were advised by the Address Paper to attend an interview round for which the agenda was not known and for which the rapporteurs have subsequently rejected it. Which rapporteur would say: No, in this municipality it is very bad, in this municipality it is very bad, here the employees work very poorly, etc. It's not like that. It is clear that many municipalities have closed schools, hospitals and kindergartens due to poor municipal economy. But this is kind of the government's responsibility, because it's about the municipal budgets that this government gives to the municipalities in Norway. To measure the quality of municipal services in Norway, the results cannot be measured from the bottom line. In that case, the quality must be measured in relation to the quantity and quality of the services provided by the municipality to its inhabitants. I also noticed that the Council of State Sanner beat herself a little on the chest and said, "We are the year's convicts. I must remind the Right that all parties, both the Advance Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party, went back at the 2017 elections, and it was with the slightest margin that they got a majority. But the majority have been lost – this government is a minority government that is totally dependent on the support of the Left and Christian People's Party for a majority. We have already seen in this period that this majority has been lost in many cases, and we are finally hoping that these support parties will see that the proposal put forward by the Workers' Party is a much better proposal, which will give citizens of all the municipalities of the country a much better service provision in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1400	To the representative of Asphjell, I have to say that there are other chapters in the Bible that express a lot more joy than the Lamentations do, so here it depends on how you see things. You can either see it black-and-black or white-and-white, but in my view, the truth is something in between. Any majority of the budget must be responsible for the decisions taken. Then I think we should be honest both when it comes to pointing out the good things and the less good things. The less good things in this budget were actually regional grants, and that's the point of entry for resource-intensive users, but that's how far we got. I can't see with my best will that we get a better budget for the municipalities by hitting each other in the head with numbers from this pulpit -- whether it's a 1.6, or 1.9, or what number it is. That's actually the service we get out of this, which is the most important thing. For a beginner in this field, it is striking to hear how important it is to point out his own excellence – and to point out how bad the other side is. No, I've learned that after a long life in local politics, that even if you disagreed, you had to fold up your sleeves and make the best of the portfolio you had. Was it a pleasure? No, it wasn't a year we were happy. Some years we were more satisfied than other years, but we folded up the sleeves and did the best possible job based on the portfolio you had. If an ordinary citizen should have been sitting and listening to this debate, I am not so sure that one would see a better service offer based on both percentage and other. Because what we're doing is talking the municipalities down, talking down the municipal services. We have to talk to the municipalities, and then we don't have to add other motives that they don't have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1409	The representative Asphjell spoke about the increases proposed in the Workers' Party's alternative budget, but he forgets one thing: how he intends to finance all the good promises. It was about increased taxes, and it was about increased taxes – for the inhabitants and for the business community in the same municipalities – which also affect the development of that municipality. I think it's worth talking about both sides of the account when you're going to talk about your additions. But what I took the floor for is about county roads. On many representatives from the Center Party, it seems that we are not betting on the county roads at all. It's completely wrong. In fact, during this government there has been an increase, in addition to that underpinned by the previous national transport plan, with subsidies to the county roads. In 2018, for upgrade and renewal, there is approx. Six billion. kr to the county roads, in addition to that in the ordinary framework, which shall cover the continuous maintenance of the county road network. And then we're going to spend 750 million. kr, or around it, each year on the racial protection of the county road network. So this is done as if it's not being put on the county roads in Norway, and it seems funny to me. Once again, this 2010 reform – when what is currently the county road network was transferred from national road status – was done without any plan for how to cover the maintenance run in the years that came, without any plan for how to cover the maintenance run. I think there is at least reason to remember his own history before one criticises others for lack of bet. I am pleased that we were able to lift this, and I am pleased with the communication campaign that is being carried out in Norway. We have increased the total transport effort over the transport budget, by over 60 pst. from 2013 to 2018. It appears throughout Norway. It builds all of Norway, it builds district Norway, and it builds city and country. I think it's okay that we take part in the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1420	Several have addressed the issue of resource-requiring services. There is no doubt that there is a very important system for obtaining as much as possible a good offer in your home municipality. If we look at the numbers, the reality is that from 2013 until today there has been an increase of 6.3 billion. to $9.6 billion. kr. So when the representative Karin Andersen says that the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party and others must take more care of those services – well, there has been an increase of 3 billion. kr during these four years. It was 6,600 who got the kind of services in 2013. Now it's 8,400. That's good, because that means that more people get a good offer in their home municipality. It is true that in 2018 we have increased the proportion of the municipalities by NOK 50000 in excess of the price increase. It does not affect the services of the residents and those with needs, but that means that the municipalities get an extra dividend of NOK 50 000. Then the representative says that the municipal reform does not have content and quality. Well, what kind of message is it to the thousands of local politicians who are now implementing the community reform? Whether they're from the Center Party, the Workers' Party, the Right Party or the Advance Party, they're doing it because they think it's going to give a better offer to the citizens of the decades to come. That's why we're supporting them, and we're going to continue to do that, because we're dedicated to preserving the Norwegian welfare municipalities, and that they can provide good services to the citizens in the years to come. Because we know something about the future, and that's that it gets more demanding, also for the municipalities. When oil revenue goes down, the cost of well-being increases, and people's expectations increase, it becomes more demanding. Then it will help very little if you hit each other in your head with 2016, 2017 or 2018 numbers, or if you give 1 billion. kr more or 1 billion. kr less. It's going to require us to be both able to prioritise more clearly in the coming years, and to shift resources from administration to better services – as we are doing in the state now. That is not the way it was claimed by the representative Lauvås, that the number of bureaucrats shoots in the weather. No, on the contrary, it goes down in the departments. We've slowed down the violent growth that was under the red-green. We are now moving state jobs into the country much higher than what was done before, and we are doing so because it can strengthen the environments of competence and job provision beyond the country. Finally, we still have housing-social challenges, but I am proud that there are far fewer homeless people today, especially children, and I am proud that we have now improved the housing support system and fixed some of the mistakes last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1433	The representative Kristin Ørmen Johnsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1438	What made me take the floor was the representative, Mr. Greni. I think that the rationale for the municipal reform must be a total misunderstanding, and that is quite alarming. Indeed, the justification is that citizens should be guaranteed good welfare services in the future. We know that we are facing major challenges with increasing numbers of older people in municipalities, but we need better services for the elderly, for school students, for kindergartens, for child protection and mental health. So I would recommend Greni to take a talk with his colleagues in the Central Party, who have actually been in favour of the reform. We need renewal and conversion in the public sector. We must not go back into the future. Municipality-Norway was the last major change in 1995. It was a long time ago. Great reforms have come since then, including: cooperation reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1445	The size will then take a break until noon. 3:30. Christmas festivities start at 4 p.m. 14, and this is probably the only time this year that the Municipal and Administrative Committee and the Parliament have paid for a lunch break! [[Laughter]] Very fun! The meeting was cancelled at 9.30 a.m. 13.45. The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 15,31. President: Eva Kristin Hansen
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1460	We shall continue the debate on substance. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1465	Norwegian municipalities are local community developers, and they are our leading welfare providers. They'll sort out your home and mine. Municipalities also represent the majority of our common healthcare service, although hospitals are often the ones that have the impact of the health debate. It's important to remember that people don't get sick in hospitals; they get sick where they live, and everyone lives in a municipality. Good kindergartens, maternity care, health centres, school health services and a safe and organised working life are important inputs to good health – both physical and mental health. Its mission is to ensure good health and quality of life for all those living in Norway. Then we have to enable Norwegian municipalities to do the tasks it involves. Over the next generation there will be twice as many over 70 years. It is a huge increase in quality of life and life for very many people, but it also implies a formidable need for better provision and good care for the elderly. There are several reasons why the government's arrangement for the next year is too bad for the municipalities. Firstly, much of the free income is tied up in the costs of demography and retirement. In addition, the government has labeled most of what is left of the money. We can only see from the Labour Party that with the government's proposals there is no room in the budget to improve the quality of care for the elderly around the country. Nor will it be better for the government to send an extra bill for resource-intensive services to the municipalities. The working party strengthens this scheme by 300 million. kr. The majority are weakening it. It's not just the municipalities that get an extra bill next year. Babies’ parents have to pay more for the nursery. The budget at all draws a picture of a government that does not give sufficient priority to welfare services that people throughout the country use for daily purposes. We in the Workers' Party want our common healthcare to be strong, so that private solutions do not force themselves and increase the differences between people. This means that the local economy needs to be given a high priority. That's what the Working Party does.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1478	We keep it going even after a pleasant lunch, but it's necessary, quite simply, because when I listened to the debate before we took a break, there was a lot to deal with. It almost sounds like it's a little doomsday out there in Municipality-Norway, but it's very far from the truth. There is little doubt that children, students, students, adults and – not least – industry have made a very good profit from a government shift in the autumn of 2013. For example, the municipal economy in 2016 has not been better since the 1990s – think about it. It's not exactly Jern-Erna and the caricatures that the red-greens have been doing for very many years, which is the fasit that we're left with. On the contrary, one has more than ever made it easier for us to be able to bet on welfare services, to bet on children and young people, to build the team around our children, and we now see that it helps. Already our kids are learning more. We see that the drop-off goes down. We see that in both the public and private sectors, research is done as never before. In fact, we've now passed 2 pst. by R & D in Norway, when we see private research and public research in the context. We also see that much more people get help and support along the way, especially at the nursery. What was before late effort has actually become the boost of time too early. We also see that the measures targeted at high school before have not given the effect that they were actually supposed to give. On the other hand, the results show that basic skills such as reading, writing and billing are increasingly gaining a lift at the nursery, and we are contributing to raising quality, from kindergarten and all the way up through primary school. What I think is more eye-catching is the huge left turn that the Workers' Party is taking into its alternative state budget. It's quite alarming, I think, that the Workers' Party is proposing to cut $300 million. kr to private kindergartens. Half of Norwegian children go to a private kindergarten. Foundations such as Canvas and Private Barnehager's Landsförbund are contributing to the promise of quality and to ensure our kids a good start in life. The working party believes that half of these children should do less. In fact, the PBL says that for the small step, it will cut by 300 million. NOK, if you distribute it correctly, will amount to as much as NOK 8 000 per child. It is the Workers' Party's response to early efforts when we are discussing local economy today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1490	The representative, Mr Ketil Kjeseth, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1495	Economy has been the topic of much of the debate here, and there is no way how much money the opposition will put on, and how much oil money the sitting government has lubricated. But it was in the years from 2006 to 2012, the red-green years, that the state budget was doubled, from 600 billion. NOK 1200 to SEK 1200. kr. The golden age in the Norwegian public economy has really been. Within that period, the red-green spaces were not found for a very large growth in the municipal sector. So I think back to the broadband expansion that the red-greens organized. Unlike Sweden, where one chose a state expansion, we have fortunately chosen a expansion with market players in Norway, and today we have a coverage of over 85 pst. in Norway, while in Sweden it is 70 pst. So it's also a question of how to spend the money. When you talk about having so much money, you should at least be happy that someone spent that money right.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1502	The representative, Mr Asphjell, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1507	The representative Helge Orten asked how the Workers' Party would finance all the good measures with its alternative state budget, and I should say that shortly. In terms of investment in welfare, for the sick, the unemployed and the elderly, we cut the wealth tax to the richest by 3.3 billion. kr. For climate action, we use environmental taxes of 1.8 billion. kr. In the case of children and young people, safety and knowledge, we liquidate reduced VAT on shower and candy for 1.9 billion. kr, and in the field of industrial policy and labour measures, we cut the subsidy for foreign online trade of SEK 1.4 billion. It's about prioritizing and putting the weakest in society at the top, and we don't cut the tax to those who have the most from before.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1514	The representative, Stein Erik Lauvås, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1519	It is presented as if the government won the election. They didn't. They went back. They're doing worse in Stortinget than they did in the last period. There's no doubt about it. In Eastfold they lost their sun clearly. Eastfold consists of a red-green majority. The story that the government is strengthened by the decision to roll out is simply not true. I think the state council will also see that if he goes into the election results and examines the state for the county. Then the municipality economy 2016 cannot be allowed to stand. This is one-off money, but if the Council of State really believes to advise the municipalities that those who had large disposable income in 2016 should contribute it to sustainable operation, the Council of State is out and provides very poor advice to the municipalities. I hope he doesn't mean it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1526	I had to speak to the Right's criticism of the Workers' Party in order to cut support for private kindergartens. There must be no doubt that the Workers' Party is positive to private kindergartens. They have made enormous efforts to meet the demand for kindergartens in Norway. What must be clear, however, is that when you pay for a service, you expect to get the same thing out of the funds you put in. Today we have a situation in Norway where private kindergartens, for example. in the municipality where I was rapporteur, may have an opening time which is considerably shorter than that of public kindergartens. You also have private kindergartens that can choose not to accommodate disabled children. The thing is, when you pay for a service, you have to get the same offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1535	I am recording that Lauvås is most busy looking back. I used my main post today to look forward. You can discuss who won the election. The reality is at least that the Lauvås and the Workers' Party are still in opposition. The Right Party and the Advance Party are still in government. We intend to use that government force, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, to implement more policies that are good for the inhabitants, good for the municipalities and good for the country. Then it's true, as Lauvås says, and I've also referred to many times before, that the municipalities have received additional tax revenue both in 2016 and 2017 during the autumn – that's quite right. At the same time, one cannot ignore the fact that the results we now see for the local economy are a combination of three aspects: one is a good economic framework that the municipalities have received after cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left. The second is that there has been good growth in tax revenue over the autumn, both in 2016 and 2017. And the third – and that may be the most important thing – is that the municipalities themselves have run well. That makes it good results, and that the number of ROBEKs has fallen sharply and is almost halved. This is a good starting point for the years we're going into. For everyone who sees, oil revenue is now falling, health and care expenditure is rising, and people's expectations continue to rise. This means that both we as national politicians and local politicians need to be more effective at prioritizing, streamlining and working smarter, so that we can continue to develop important services for the citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1546	I feel the need to follow up the representative from the Workers' Party, who points out this with private kindergartens and cuts. I think it's a little strange that you show a positive attitude to what private kindergartens contribute to Norway, by cutting 300 million. kr. If you really believe that not all kindergartens deliver what you have set out to be of policy objectives in terms of quality and content, you have the opportunity to set a framework for what is to be the quality and content of the kindergarten sector for all the approved kindergartens that receive public support – whether they are municipally driven, privately run or a foundation. There are private kindergartens, e.g. through the foundation of Canvas, which extends beyond municipal kindergartens. They have 50 pst. pedagogical density. They follow collective agreements. They have lower sick leave. They have higher user satisfaction. It's really like some things to do their social work in an excellent way, and they just contribute through this diversity to creating the quality we're out there giving our children. How to greet a kind of effort for our kids to give them a $300 million cut. I don't understand. From the four parties, we have entered into budgetary settlements which are now raising the pedagogical density of the nursery sector to 43 pst. We're going to go up. We're going to be involved in making the quality and content of kindergarten so that it helps us get better learning through play, that we get the early efforts that everyone is talking about, that we ensure our kids social mobility. Then we have to play with all the good forces that exist among all those who run kindergartens, and not go to the war statement against the half that has shown over many years that they can deliver very good quality and good content for very limited resources compared to very many within the same sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1553	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Part two. We are moving on to the debate on Part Two – immigration and integration. The President refers to the debate previously adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1562	Immigration, integration and asylum policies are among the major challenges facing many countries in the world. It's about the fact that very many people are on the run, either from war or from mismanagement and persecution, and also that many people want to move on, for good reasons, as people have made up through history, at all times, and so the nordic people today want to do. Then it's a little bit about meeting the enormous humanitarian needs that exist in the world, in a good way, that Norway has to keep up the fragile network of civilization that lies in our Convention obligations with regard to refugees, and that we have to have a policy that allows us to learn to live together sails if we are different. SV believes that the government is not on the right track at some of these points. The first is the great need to receive more refugees. The UN has asked Norway to accept 5,000 refugees, and SV believes that we should have. We should because there are now many fewer asylum seekers coming to Norway. This is primarily because the borders of Europe have been closed, not because there is a need for fewer. It is also because there is a serious situation in many refugee camps, with a lack of food, education and security, and because the large number of refugees in many neighbourhoods are involved in destabilising these areas. In addition, we now have capacity in Norway in the municipal sector – and this is the first time I have attended hearings in Stortinget where KS has come and asked to receive more quota refugees than we have now. Here, of course, Norway, as a very rich country, should also go ahead and show that we are listening when the UN High Commissioner asks us to make such a contribution, which is not very large. In terms of integration, there is one sentence in this setting that I became very happy to read, which is from the Advance Party and the Right. It's: ‘These members consider immigration to be a source of diversity, new impulses and cultural exchanges.’ I agree with that, but I have to say that there is a lot to hear that it is the rhetoric that the government – and especially the Advance Party – uses in these matters. That's where you're concerned about problematizing more than integrating, and you talk people down a lot. The last thing that happened was last week when crime statistics came. It shows that there is a sharp decline in crime also among immigrants, but it was made a problem by the Council of State. One of the serious things we heard was that the proportion of young people with immigrant backgrounds born and raised in Norway, who are criminals, is higher than among Norwegian youth. Then there might be reason to wonder why these young people react that way. Maybe it's because every day they hear that they never get Norwegian enough, that it's being spoken negatively in general about the whole group. What we know is that young people are looking for negative communities when they don't have the opportunity to be part of good. The government's cut in legal aid measures for refugees is also very critical. SV prioritises these areas highly, as well as giving priority to more minority counsellors in school, reinforced support measures for young people exposed to extreme social control, preventive measures against radicalisation directed by non-governmental organisations and a regional effort of more than 100 million. kr more than the government. And in reception there is a need to strengthen efforts, with child-care skills, that all children of kindergarten age are allowed to go to kindergarten, and not least we need to increase the living performance of families who are currently experiencing pure poverty and hunger. We now read in the paper that the families in the receptions do not have enough money for food. It's embarrassing, it's completely unnecessary, and SV suggests to increase these rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1579	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1584	That SV is in order to soften immigration policy is well known. They will receive more refugees and more asylum seekers. What's more unclear is what SV intends to do with people when they first get here. SV does little on the integration field. They opposed the government's proposal for integration, which is an action to make it easier for people to get into work and education. It may seem that SV is primarily concerned about getting as many people as possible to stay, but that there are not so many proposals or requirements to ensure that people are integrated. At the same time, we know that increased immigration combined with failed integration will increase unemployment and potentially impaired confidence in Norway. My question to SV is: why does SV want a policy that increases unemployment and weakens confidence among people?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1591	It was very strange here, and it is also clear that there has not been any involvement in the fact that EN early in our promotion of a whole range of proposals for good integration measures, which we are now following up. The reason why we have opposed the integration recipients is that we believe that all receptions should be integration receptions. We have been opposed to doing what the representative has been involved in, namely cutting Norwegian training at receptions. This government has reduced the number of women who are most remote from the labour market even in the job market, so that women who are the most distant from the labour market are not helped by this system. SV has strengthened this scheme. We strengthen the possibility of going to kindergarten, as we know is important – much more important than providing cash support, which is a payment to keep children away from kindergarten and mother away from education and work. It is a very poor integration measure, which the government stands for, and which SV does not stand for – so here it is probably a total misunderstanding from the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1600	I recognise SV's need to help. I think everyone needs and wants to show that you want to help people in a difficult situation. But it is difficult to see through the policy SV leads, that it will be the outcome and the goal. We know it's expensive to take people to Norway. We could help a lot more in the neighborhoods. We also see that welfare schemes are being put under pressure, and it is going to be difficult to get all those who come here into work. SV argues that there is room in the municipalities, that the municipalities have capacity, i.e. in the number of employees, and do not want to reduce it. But is there no limit to how many people we can accept without going beyond the labour market, with too many unemployed people – and also at the expense of those who need more help in the neighbourhoods?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1609	Here, too, there was great confusion. If you are under pressure from the labour market, you might have to be concerned about the high level of labour immigration in recent years, which has come from the EEA, which has really put pressure on the Norwegian labour market – and which is a much higher number than the number of refugees proposed by SV now. 2 500 more than the government has proposed. There is no doubt that Norway has the capacity to accept these, and there is no contradiction in any way to be able to increase aid efforts in the neighbourhood, which I see the government is talking about, but not doing. There is also a need to listen to what the United Nations says, that the pressure in these refugee camps is so great that they need to take out someone they cannot provide security, for example. women, Convertites and Homophiles. The United Nations has requested Norway to accept 5000. That's not a very large number. It has Norway’s capacity and ability to — and also the ability to further reinforce aid efforts in its neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1618	Every year by a civil majority, more quota refugees have been accepted than SV got to some year for eight red-green years. It's one of the possibilities that lies there, at least for the Left, to have a little bit more roughness and a little bit bigger heart layers. Then I see that SV suggests accepting many now and proposing an increase to the Foreign Directorate of 23 million. kr. The Workers' Party proposes 5.9 million, while the Center Party cuts 30 million, both to the Foreign Directorate and to the UN. There is no will to receive more. So the question is, who is SV going to cooperate with to accept as many people as you want?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1623	We are very happy to cooperate with the Left and Christian People's Party on this. It is a pity that the Left and Christian People's Party has chosen to cooperate with a government that has carried out tightenings in this field, in which I know the representative and his party deeply disagree, and which in our view, and I have also registered that the Left has agreed with SV in it, is not on the edge, but over with regard to our obligations regarding interpretations of the right of asylum and the conventions we are obliged to. If the representative believes that these are of the very important issues in politics, the representative's party should turn to SV and cooperate there, instead of giving back coverage to perhaps the most integration negative government we've ever had.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1630	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1635	The debate on immigration and integration touches on some of the major challenges facing the world. International relations are setting new precedents for what we have to deal with. Vulnerable and non-functioning states in Europe's neighbourhood are the site of war and conflict, poverty and humanitarian crises. People are moving – it's the time of the people's migration. Globalisation brings many dilemmas and paradoxes. We see large and increasing differences in income and wealth. Capital and trade exert pressure on workers' rights, and people in motion are being exploited in the most serious way. We also see it here in Norway. The climate challenge is a global threat, and international agreements depend on countries believing in and contributing to solutions. If not, climate change will lead to even more refugees because the basis of life literally disappears when the weather changes. Political persecution and lack of democracy and legal certainty make people unsafe, and many refugees from such regimes. The world is facing major challenges. Right now, there's fewer coming into Europe than we experienced in 2015. This is not due to the fact that the situation for people is better in 2017 than in 2015, mainly due to the strengthening of border controls across Europe. The action of the Red Cross on Saturday gave us a clear reminder of how many people are fleeing the world. Therefore, there is reason to believe that the immigration and inclusion field will continue to shape our political everyday life in the years to come, and we will need to look for new solutions for those who are on the move – not Norway alone, but with the countries of Europe and through international forums. The starting point for the Labour Party's policy on immigration is strict, fair and humane. Applicants for asylum in Norway shall ensure that the application is treated properly and that those who need it are protected. Several reports ask questions about whether matters are handled properly now, and there is a great deal of responsibility on the government, which assures the Storting that they will. A situation where many people are looking for Europe means that we need close cooperation with the countries of Europe. We must pursue a policy that does not differ significantly from them, but matters must nevertheless be dealt with properly. We assume that it does within our international obligations. Since 2015, many have come to Norway to be here permanently. The ambition of the working party is that we should be the best at inclusion. Then we have to have good systems that give those who come to our country the opportunity to gain enough skills so that they can contribute to society. The combination of older and younger people means that we need more people to contribute. This applies to all, but despite the increase in the employment rate among immigrants, it is absolutely essential that more people come into work. Therefore, our main priority in the inclusion work is to get more out of work. That is why we are strengthening Jobjessen as a tool to achieve this. In our alternative budget, we're going to spend 50 million dollars. kr more on the measure, because we see that it works. Work teaches Norwegian. It creates cohesion and friendship between colleagues, and it contributes to belonging to Norwegian society. In addition to strengthening Job opportunities, we strengthen the basic allocation of volunteer organisations, because we know that many contribute to getting more into Norwegian society through volunteering, and that is a good and safe haven for many who come here. One of the things that I think challenges us the most is that some people come to Norway who have education, maybe long education, but who lack evidence of it. Others have education but are not approved in Norway. That's depressing, and people who want to participate don't get to do it because they're missing some document. That is why we are strengthening the system of real-time competence assessment, and we are strengthening NOCUT, so that more people can get their education approved, which is not taken up in Norway, but which is nevertheless important in order for them to be able to contribute to Norwegian employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1656	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1661	The Labour Party has long agreed with the Right and the Progress Party in immigration policy. Under Jens Stoltenberg's leadership, the mantra was introduced: strict but fair immigration policy. The temporary residence scheme was introduced. But under new leadership, under Gahr Støre, and after the election we see a working party that is something different. Liberalisations are adopted in immigration policy, for which we do not know the consequences. So I wonder, where has it become of the Workers' Party? What is their approach to immigration policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1667	There is no doubt that we are going to have a strict, fair and humane immigration policy. However, it requires the government to ensure the justice that is important, to ensure that cases are dealt with in such a way that many organisations do not question what Norway is doing, where we see that young people who are being treated for their asylum application are not given child-care assessments – at least in many of the decisions are missing. That's what worries us. That is why we have had to correct the course, not our own, but we want to correct the government's course, precisely because we see that the procedure has been different from what we assume when we deal with matters in Stortinget. That is why we also saw the need to withdraw the authority that the Council of State had vis-à-vis its underlying offices, precisely because we saw that it was in a direction that was not in accordance with what we agreed when we dealt with the matter here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1674	It is then noted that the Labour Party is moving towards the liberalisation of immigration policy. But now it's like we've actually received over 80,000 refugees to settle in the municipalities. Only in 2018 there are 27,000 going to work. One consequence of a liberal line is that we get a greater pressure both on the asylum institution and not least on the municipalities. This again will lead to fewer people coming into work. How will the Workers' Party solve this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1679	Firstly, the representative Ørmen Johnsen cannot read me as if we were going in a liberalizing direction. That's not right. Her co-representative from the Progress Party has said that our proposal is like opening doors. It is an adjustment that is in line with the decision of the Stortinget when the asylum agreement was concluded here at Stortinget. Yeah, we'll make sure more people get to work. That's exactly why we're strengthening Jobjessen by 50 million. kr. It is absolutely essential for more people to get into work. And as I said at the end of my post: we have to make sure that those who have education can get their education approved, and that we can have real competence assessment of more, too many come to Norway and have education. I'm absolutely sure we can do that, we'll need a lot of them in the care of the elderly, in the public sector. Many of them do a very good job in private business as well. So here's a lot of ways to solve what's the big challenge for Norway in the future: that we have enough labour to do the big problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1686	I think it was quite clear to read from the previous row that there are just activists and organisations who have been out there and influenced the Labour Party's policy, that's why they now want to look at new changes. We can certainly promise that if the Workers' Party is to satisfy all the opinions that come from the activists and organizations in this field, they have a very long way to go before they are satisfied. I see in today's VG that the leader of the Workers' Party is looking to find a new immigration policy. It is a little worrying that, just after a choice, a new policy should be drawn up and a sample should be set up to propose a concrete and comprehensive immigration policy. I think it is alarming that the Workers' Party did not already have it. The question is then: is it such that we can expect new decorations from the Workers' Party, or have you carried out the decorations that you wanted, now?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1693	The President will point out that all speeches are to be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1698	I think the representative of Engen-Helgheim should think it's good, I, that we listen to the organisations that are working to take care of people's interests. This applies whether it is Norwegian-born people or people who have come to the country who need our attention. This would be a completely different society if we chose to ignore many of the volunteer organisations that have spokespersons for groups in Norway. I also thought the Progress Party, which was for the most people, it was good. With regard to our work on immigration policy, it is marked by a changing Europe. There are major changes in European policy. Among other things, there was a summit in the EU just a few days ago discussing completely new solutions for the field of asylum and immigration. It would be to stand at the very back of the platform if you didn't keep track of what's going on in Europe, and have policies that are consistent with what's going on in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1705	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1710	All applicants for protection shall be treated with respect and given adequate legal assistance. However, persons who do not have a need for protection must be returned quickly. Immigration into Norway needs to be regulated in order to put legitimacy behind the institution of asylum. A large number of asylum seekers, which we received in 2015, put the asylum system and the welfare model under pressure. The number of arrivals has now decreased, and by 31 August there were 2,862 asylum seekers and 149 single minors registered. There is a high contrast to over 30,000 applicants in 2015. The figures have decreased for several reasons, including: The EU agreement with Turkey, migration control on the Western Balkans and border control in the Schengen area, and not least have several countries, including the United Nations. Norway, in use. That's right. Norway is the country that has contributed most in terms of receiving refugees in the period 2015–2017. In addition to ordinary asylum seekers, we have received 8 000 Syrian refugees and 1 500 refugees over two years at the invitation of the EU Relocation Facility. The budget agreement now provides for an increase in the quota of 1 000 refugees in addition to those proposed by the Government of 1 120. It was claimed by the committee leader that Norway did not contribute in the world during the refugee crisis. I just remember that in 2016 Norway contributed as much as 2.7 billion. kr to Syria, and our own Prime Minister took the initiative of a donor country conference held in England, which gave great money. So the fact that we don't contribute is simply wrong. That being said, the Right is pleased that the government is now focusing on developing a good preparedness for arrival, not least in order to increase efficiency and control in the early days of asylum seekers in Norway. A large reception centre in Råde that is planned, we stand behind us. We are pleased with the budgetary priorities that will modernise the IT system in this sector, among others. in order to obtain a more efficient and correct registration. There has been a great deal of attention around single minor asylum seekers, and 50 million were allocated in May 2017. kr for increased manning and improvement of competence in reception. Single minor asylum seekers shall be properly treated in a manner that is appropriate to their situation. I am pleased that the Ministry of Budgetary Proposition writes that they are given priority at all stages of the administration of foreign affairs: by registration, by accommodation, by proceedings, by residence and by return where necessary. It is demanding to adapt the reception capacity to the number of arrivals, and it is the Foreign Affairs Directorate that needs to look up the need for the most cost-effective accommodation. Due to low arrivals, it has been necessary to reduce the number of receptions also for lone minors. In terms of integration, many are to be settled in municipalities, 27 000 in 2018. We're going to spend about 15 billion dollars. kr for settlement and integration measures. Since the chairman of the committee said that the government is anti-integrative, I would like to ask the chairperson of the committee to look at OECD statistics, where Norway is actually among the highest in the list of countries that have good measures for those to be integrated. That's good. We fully support the main objectives of integration. There is a faster settlement of refugees and higher participation among immigrants in society and working life. In order to achieve better and faster integration, we have committed ourselves to integration receptions for those who are to be settled and who are likely to stay. This will contribute to a faster integration into society. We are now also introducing 50 hours of mandatory cultural and social knowledge in asylum recipients, as well as competence mapping of individuals in reception. There is also a provision of resources to enhance the competence of Norwegian education in the introduction centres. Fast settlement is necessary to get started. We have also provided funds to non-governmental organisations that contribute to the integration process.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1735	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1740	By participating in the labour market, most people will be able to support themselves and their families and thus avoid poverty. That is why it is important to get more people working for the Workers' Party. We want to encourage more people to qualify for work, and we prioritise it in our alternative budget, among other things. by strengthening Jobjessen by 50 million. kr. In particular, we do this to strengthen the efforts to get immigrant women who are not working to work. Participation in the labour market also offers better opportunities for good integration. The right-hand side also says that it is important to get immigrant women to work. 27 000 who are now completing the introduction programme are going to enter the job market. Can the Right respond to where in the 2018 budget they have prioritised measures where immigrants are given the opportunity to qualify for work?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1747	Thank you for the question. In the case of qualification for work, the representative was in the position of Job. It's been reinforced by 20 million. kr in this budgetary agreement. Otherwise, we are busy starting very early, and we have now opened up the possibility for asylum seekers who are likely to stay to work while they are in reception. The establishment of integration recipients is a part of getting people to work quickly. You can also work there while you're in reception. Social and Norwegian education is also in place, and it will help people actually move in the labour market. Norwegian knowledge is one of the prerequisites for that. We also strengthen Norwegian education in the introduction system by getting better skills, because we see that even if many people come to work, it is actually a part that falls out of work after a short period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1755	There is strong criticism that the Trandum detention centre, which is a closed, prison-like reception with a very heterogeneous group, is also used to internalise young people. The right of the committee opinion states that the efforts to get young people out of reception at Trandum by establishing a family unit have been delayed. Reference is made to the fact that it has been difficult to find land and that acquisitions of housing units etc. has taken longer than expected. The establishment of the family unit has been promised for a long time, but the plans have not been realised. According to the Right note, not even an empty space has been found yet. It's shocking. It is clear that it has not been a priority on the part of the department to get kids out of the detention centre at Trandum. Is the right satisfied with the ministry's efforts in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1762	Firstly, it is clear that it is difficult for children to be in a situation where they are in a closed reception. It's really very rare to use it, but sometimes it has to be done because you have to force it back. Alternative arrangements are being looked at, and we feel that the ministry wants to do this, but it's taken time. It's also about not everyone wanting such a reception or such a unit in the vicinity of them. But I'm sure the department will find a solution to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1769	The representative said in his speech that Norway was the country that had received most refugees. I just have to make it clear that it probably isn't right. There are many countries that have accepted much more refugees than Norway. In Europe, Turkey is a special class, but there are many other countries that accept many more. But enough about it. It's important that those who come here and live here become well integrated quickly. Therefore, it was very sad that the government cut off Norwegian training at reception. The strengths for which the representative referred to in his statement are, of course, all. I want to return to the lack of effort, among other things. on women. It's just that the government cut off in Jobjeansen. They have also narrowed the target population for the social welfare system, and some of them are the furthest away from work. Can the representative explain why these women should receive less help, why does the government think it is right that they should have less opportunities than before?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1778	First of all, a clarification: in the case of quota refugees, we are the country that receives most quota refugees per capita. In the case of women and Jobjessen, the government has been busy feeding Jobjessen. An evaluation action has also been launched to see if it takes them. As far as women are concerned, there is nothing to prevent women from going to work, but what we have said is that women who are in other Nav actions – there may be redundancy money, there may be day money, there may be a lack of work – should not be given priority in this work. It is those who are not on Nav’s ‘budgets’ that are to be given priority in order to enter the labour market. We think that's absolutely right. We also have good results from Jobsjansen. In my own municipality we see that more people have come to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1787	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1792	Immigration has made us a more diverse nation, for good and for bad. The migration crisis in Europe led to Norway’s total residence to close to 80,000 refugees and family reunification in the last six years. The government has therefore worked to reduce the number of newly arrived asylum seekers without a need for protection, for the rapid settlement of persons who are allowed to stay, and for the faster return of persons without a legal residence. Time in receipt shall be used effectively, residence in the municipalities shall take place as soon as possible after decision to stay, qualification for working life must be targeted, and the competences and training provided shall be used. This budget strengthens social and cultural training in asylum recipients, in addition to Norwegian training, and measures to speed up the employment of refugees. Knowledge requirements for Norwegian language and Norwegian society are important for all parties. Those entering Norwegian society must be provided with incentives and opportunities to participate in the labour market and society as a whole. If new residents are to succeed, efforts are required from the authorities, the community, volunteering, the labour market and not least from individual immigrants themselves. The case-handling capacity in UDI has been significantly increased. The Asylum Institute is a very important tool to provide protection to people with a need for protection. Norway shall fulfil its international obligations and assist refugees. The government's commitment to integration is a good first step towards a more differentiated reception structure that takes into account the self-interest of residents and their needs. Through budgetary conciliation, there was agreement to increase the quota of transfer refugees by 1 000 compared to the government's original draft budget. As a result, several chapters and items have increased. Norway will continue to accept fewer refugees than in previous years, which is necessary for the proper integration of the large number of new arrivals in recent years. These are people who need housing, health services, kindergartens, school facilities and employment services. The number of refugees in Norwegian training and introduction programmes will be high throughout 2018. There are a number of appropriations for grant schemes for those living in reception. The support schemes shall contribute to child protection measures for single minors, child-care competences, kindergarten, volunteering, qualification measures, physical activity and cultural activity. I react to how some parties and individual organisations talk about the way asylum seekers are treated in Norway for the first time. Often you get the impression that what you're going to get is worse than what you're coming from. The fact is that from the very first moment, those arriving will be given a roof over their heads, food, clothing and health care. We spend a lot of billions of dollars treating these people in a good way. What you should criticise, however, is how random it is if you are given opportunities to have a good life in the municipality in which you live. Some municipalities have accepted people who are currently in a good job and have their own housing. Others come to a municipality where they still do not understand or speak Norwegian after 20 years in Norway. It is time for us to demand that the transfers received by the municipality be used for integration and not for balancing other budget demands that local politicians might have. The government therefore proposes that those with good integration outcomes should settle refugees. It is important to take account of job opportunities and outcomes in the allocation of refugees to municipalities. So it's not the size of the municipality that's going to be critical, but the result. Last week the Progress Party organized a mini-seminar. Three women and one man with different country backgrounds told about their experiences with Norwegian society. The feedback was clear: it is not the behaviour of the North that has corrupted their growth, but the desire of the immigrant community to care. Social control and culture of honor take place where immigrants live closely, and where they have time to keep up with what the other does – i.e. lack of integration. In this budget, we offer free half-day work space in kindergarten or SFO/activity school and increased grants for volunteering, language training programmes, self-help for immigrants and a number of other good measures to make integration possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1824	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1829	If we are to be able to include new people in the Norwegian community, we are dependent on seeing all of them as individuals and participants in our welfare society. This must be reflected in both the policy design and the way we discuss and discuss this policy area. At the risk of getting 26 questions back, I have a question for the representative, Kjønaas Kjos: I register that the Progress Party is very busy and eager to get the Left into the government. Is it to turn refugee policy, immigration policy and integration policy into a more social liberalist direction? Is that why the Progress Party now wants to get Left in?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1836	We have invited both the Christian People's Party and the Left into the government, from the very first time we came into government, to the formation of a broad bourgeois government. It is an invitation that has stood there all the way and that applies generally to all policy areas. All the parties are a little bit different, but we're going to find good solutions, as we've done in the budgets. But I'm recording that the Left is also very busy doing a better job of integration. It meets the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1841	In the comments of the Progress Party, it is said, inter alia, that:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘These members believe that it is obvious that knowledge of Norwegian and Norwegian languages and society is required for those in Norway over time. This requires a specific effort by each of those living in Norway.’» I fully agree with that statement, but I also believe that it is a requirement that must be met with active organisation from the Norwegian community. The centre party, in its alternative budget, promotes more money for Norwegian training in reception and disagrees with the cut that was previously carried out. Does the Progress Party agree with me that if we are to achieve the goal of integration from day one, we need a better offer of training in Norwegian society and, not least, better training in Norwegian language?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1853	Over the four years we have been in government, we have constantly followed up on the offer we provide, improved it, and launched new measures to improve Norwegian education even more. So much of what has happened has happened in recent years. I agree that we need to organise actively, but I would like to remind you that the immigrants who came to Norway 20-30 years ago had almost none of the offers we are making right now. There were people who worked hard to achieve their goals, who are well integrated, and who are some of those I showed in my post, who have a good job, and who have a house. So it's all about the fact that everyone has to want a very strong desire to have a good future in Norway. We're going to make sure that they don't get hooks in their wheels in order to reach those targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1861	I agree very much with the latter, and therefore it is very critical that the government has cut off Norwegian training – not reinforced it – and that we are still waiting for proposals to improve the introduction system, which everyone has agreed that it has been needed for a long time. In addition, there has been a reduction in reception that is good for integration. It's not particularly wise, if you're concerned with integration, to remove the receptions that get it. The representative of Kjønaas Kjos says that you should live in the municipalities that have good results. It sounds very lenient, and I don't initially disagree with it, but it happens that some of the residents have slightly worse assumptions than others. There are, for example: People who are very damaged and sick. If these are the parameters to count, how will the Progress Party ensure that there are municipalities that will settle people who are damaged by war and have major health challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1870	With so many thousands of people who have been moved to municipalities over the last few years, it is clear that all municipalities are experiencing high-educated and easy access to work, and others who are illiterate, or who have severe disabilities. So over the year, I think that having to accept different types of challenges will be the same for all municipalities. But there is no doubt that there are very big differences in the municipalities when it comes to how much they have spent on work. In particular, municipalities that have a very close cooperation with the business community in their municipality have allowed immigrants to try out work practices, so they learn the language very much faster when they use it in everyday life. I also think it's a little strange that you're talking about... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1877	That's it. Time goes fast, but it was out. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1884	The Central Party will conduct a responsible refugee and asylum policy based on our international obligations, humane traditions and our national capacity. It is important that Norway has a clear practice in asylum matters. It will help to reduce the number of asylum seekers without a need for protection and to reduce the duration of treatment in the management of asylum. Work on integration must start already on arrival in Norway. Those who receive a residence permit must settle as soon as possible. It assumes that municipalities are covered by the costs incurred. The state budget for immigration and integration is characterised by the fact that asylum seekers in Norway are now far fewer. We know that it is not because the number of people on the run is reduced, but that border controls in Europe are intensified to reduce the number of people on the run. The reduction in the number of asylum seekers is therefore not something we can guarantee over time. The size of the population has recently addressed several issues relating to the regulation of immigration policy. The restrictions in the Foreign Affairs Act introduced by the end of 2015-2016 were adopted as a temporary measure. The centre batch has supported the continuation of several of the contractions but, together with the majority of the population, has decided to abolish the Department's authority of instruction over the UN. We believe it is important that UNE can continue as an independent, judicially-like body. That's what UNE was set up to be. The Centre Party supported the introduction of vulnerability criteria in the treatment of the return of lone minor asylum seekers. The proposal for a temporary stop in all return to Afghanistan did not receive the support of the Storting, but we adopted four proposals to address the practice of the Foreign Affairs Act in this area. This matter is now being followed up by the Minister for Immigration and Integration. I and many with me have reacted in the way that the Council of State chooses to follow up the matter. Instead of returning to the Storting with measures to implement the decision, we are asked 26 questions. This is perceived as an attempt by the Council of State to maneuver itself out of the matter. My advice is that the Council of State is now maneuvering into the matter again by returning to Stortinget with the follow-up measures we have ordered. There is now a rapid reduction in the reception capacity of refugees. It doesn't happen without challenges. Municipalities that have undertaken large commitments by being hosts for reception are almost overnight excluded from this task. The host municipality grants disappear faster than the time it takes to reduce capacity. This must be compensated for by the municipalities. Of course, the centre party does not object to the need to adapt the reception capacity. We have to do that, but the adaptations have to be done so that we take care of important considerations. Among other things, we have stated that the previously expressed wish to have more municipalities and more ideals to start reception activities must be taken into account, so that these are not the first ones to be laid down. We have also asked that the reception capacity should continue to be spread to different parts of the country. The government has established so-called integration reception facilities. The centre party is included in a note where we disagree with this distinction between ordinary reception and integration reception. It is important to make provision for individualised follow-up of asylum seekers, but this must be done without the provision of much better services to selected groups than to others. The centre party also opposes the removal of the grant to volunteer coordinators in the receptions and the cut-off in Norwegian training grants. ‘Day-on-day integration’ has become a motto for more effective integration policies. Then we must not build up measures that can contribute to this precisely. The integration of refugees who have been granted residence is a demanding task. People who often suffer major traumas will learn Norwegian, find their way into Norwegian society and get into education or work. Overall, I think we should be able to say that the integration processes are going well. For all intents and purposes, that is an exception, but we must not allow the exceptions to premise for the integration debate. The centre party has been strongly critical of the omission of small municipalities as current settlement municipalities for refugees in 2018. IMDi must assess settlement municipalities by result, not by size. Many smaller municipalities can show good results both in terms of integration and in terms of getting people out of work. That is why we have made a proposal together with the Workers' Party and SV, where we ask the government to assume that the request to the municipalities for housing should not be based on the selection of municipalities by size, but on results.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1912	It's going to be line change. The President will draw attention to the fact that the speaking time during the change of line is 1 minute. The President has noticed that the Storting thinks 1 minute is very short time, but will club if you go over that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1919	We have heard that since 2012, Norway has received nearly 80,000 refugees and family reunifications. These are individuals who are to be settled in a municipality; they are to get a job, new friends and a connection to the Norwegian community. Both the Right and the Centre agree that this is a demanding situation both for municipalities and for communities if one is to succeed in integration. Nevertheless, in the autumn the Centre Party has arranged to liberalise part of the immigration policy together with the SV and the Workers' Party. Why does the Centre Party want to put a stronger pressure on Norwegian municipalities by opening up more immigration than we have today, and how far is the Centre Party willing to go?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1926	I do not know where the representative has come from that we have opened up liberalisation. At least that's not the case. All we've done is clarify the decision we made in the tightening up. In the case of the number to be settled, the representative shall be part of a settlement to have more transfer refugees than the Central Party entered into the budget. So, from this point of view, there's going to be a slightly more demanding task with the arrangements of the budget-mates than is going to be with the arrangement of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1931	The centre party has said that they don't want to go further with the integration reception model. This government has done a great deal of work to improve reception in the municipalities. The municipalities are better compensated financially, and we are now going to set criteria for who should accept and settle refugees. There are important steps that need to be taken to improve the results. One thing that has not been good enough and that no one has been able to succeed in Norway is to get good enough results on employment or education after an introduction programme has ended. There's a long way to go. I notice that the centre party writes in their comments that they believe that today's model is very successful, even though it turns out from several reports that it is too varied and too bad results. What does the Center Party justify this because the reception as it is today is more than good enough? What do they want to do to improve it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1940	Here it was a mixture of reception and settlement. When it comes to reception, we don't have any faith in integration reception. We believe that all receptions should be an integration reception, and all integration should start from day one, even for those who do not have higher education when they come here. The integration recipients are only for those who are closest to the labour market already, and then the others will be put back even further. In the case of settlements in municipalities, the smallest municipalities tend to have the best results, both in terms of language training, in terms of integration into the community, and in terms of getting refugees into work. I am therefore very surprised that the Progress Party is not also voting for our proposal, which says that refugees should also be settled in the small municipalities, which have very good results in terms of integration, and in terms of getting into work or education. That is why I hope the Progress Party will vote in favour of our proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1947	The representative, Mr. Greni, pointed out in his statement that our national capacity is important given how many we are going to receive. On the question from the representative Norunn Tveiten Benestad, who referred to the fact that the Central Party will liberalise parts of immigration policy, it is more likely to say that it is nationalistic, because the Central Party is the only party left in the Storting and will only receive 1000 more, while all other parties will accept 2 120, or more. Then I bump into the Center Party a little bit, because with regard to the national capacity, all the municipalities out there, all the receptions and everyone, that they have the capacity, that they can receive more. We should take advantage of that space of action. But the Senterpartiet also calls for a host municipality grant to the municipalities, and not after receiving more. What is the logic of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1952	I am not quite sure if I got the question. I understand that we have been criticized for accepting too many and too few – I have received that. But I can't figure out what reception capacity has to do with transfer refugees. For transfer refugees, live directly in the municipalities, so it has nothing to do with reception capacity. The centre party is concerned that we should have a good integration policy and that we should be clear that integration should be priority no. 1st@item: inlistbox The most important thing is that they get quick Norwegian training from day one. Unfortunately, the Left has also participated in cutting the number of hours of Norwegian training received. It's poor integration policy, it's expensive for society because it takes longer before they get into work, and it's very bad for the refugee, who then spends a longer time getting integrated into the Norwegian community. Then it's also very important that we live in all municipalities, and that we especially live in the small municipalities, which have very good results in getting people out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1960	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1965	Just under two years ago, our receiver was tested. More than ever before sought asylum in 2015, and it was demanding to put in place proper accommodation. But organizations, municipalities and private individuals stood up, and everyone got hold of their heads. Now the number of asylum seekers to Norway is record low, and reception needs to be reduced. It creates new challenges among those who have experienced the receptions as an enrichment of the community. And it shows that Norway is a rusty and warm society that sets up for those who need it. Now that the number of asylum seekers is record low, we have the capacity to receive more quota refugees. Norway has normally received 1000 more annually, while we are now to receive 1000 more. I'm glad, but the number could and should have been even higher. The number of refugees has not decreased even if the refugee route from Turkey was closed. Many are on the run, and Europe must jointly take greater responsibility. Regardless of inflows, we need to deal properly with the asylum applications that are coming and use the opportunity of low applicant figures to streamline the procedure. As a general rule, three weeks of proceedings are possible with better coordination of resources in the UDI and in the police. Fast clearance is good for those who get to be, and for those who get rejected. Today there is a very short procedure, but a very long waiting time. It has to be shortened. For the Left, it is obvious that efficiency should not be at the expense of legal certainty and that appeals should be made. However, we are not committed to maintaining the receipts for the receipts. A rapid clearance provides an opportunity for direct residence in a municipality after a short stay at the destination. It would provide a significant boost to integration. And if there's someone who deserves homage in the integration field, it's the municipalities that have lived more than ever in the last few years. Some municipalities are better than others, but everyone should contribute. Municipalities that are good at integration must share experiences with other municipalities. Ensuring good integration is one of the main challenges we face, and this job must be done in local communities. We need to provide kindergarten, school and work, but also include the other communities – the sports team, the community and the informal meeting places. Quality must be ensured through an independent supervisory system as long as the ordinary receipts are in place. The left considers that supervision should be under State control. The integration recipients have been an important grant, but they are only a beginning. The left considers that all ordinary receptions should be as integration receivers. The left has a special commitment to children. Children in exile are more vulnerable than adults, and we have a responsibility for the children who are here. That's why I'm glad we've strengthened the pediatric competence of our receiver. For children, kindergarten and school are the main integration arena. I am therefore pleased that the government has followed up the Left's proposals in the integration agreement on kindergarten for children in reception. The left has fought through a free core-time system in the kindergarten to ensure that all children are given the opportunity to go to kindergarten and now have an extension of the scheme. We are also concerned that all children should be given the opportunity to participate in SFO or activity school, AKS. We see those who need it the most fall outside, and SFO/AKS, in addition to school and kindergarten, has become an important community arena for children. For adults, integration is about lowering the threshold for participation in the labour market, including while waiting for the clarification of asylum applications, but also about greater opening of paid and unpaid work practices in order to gain a foothold in the labour market. Language is crucial, and we need to enhance both the quality of the offer and facilitate more arenas to learn languages. The left should also have seen that we had extended the number of hours for Norwegian training. However, we are pleased that TV 2 Schools can continue to provide both Norwegian training and not least knowledge of society. All surfaces must be used if we are to succeed in integration. Finally, two words about volunteering. Integration is completely dependent on voluntary forces. We have a number of resource environments in the immigration field, and I would like to be told in this room that the Left does not believe that the Human Rights Service is one of these national actors. However, across the country, we have voluntary actors who make significant contributions to integration, through offers such as refugee guides, sports activities, language cafes, homework and so on. We have fireshells that alone make invaluable individual contributions. Voluntaryness is an important pillar of society and an expression of the red and inclusive Norway that we are and will be. Without volunteering, we don't get to integration. Therefore, the subsidy items for volunteering in this field are so incredibly important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1986	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1991	Left and Ketil Kjenseth are associated with most of the parties here in Stortinget to ask the government to re-treat some issues. I record here that representatives of the government define it as a liberalisation of immigration policy. The representative, Kjeseth and Left, have previous experience in doing similar tasks to the government. In 2014, a similar settlement was concluded with respect to long-term asylum-seekers. Then there were about 330 families with children, and I registered that the then Council of State was able to do this in a reasonably good way. Then is my question to the representative Kjenseth: Does he consider what he was involved in in 2014, as a tightening of asylum policy or as a liberalisation of asylum policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e1996	Thank you for the question. The fact that several asylum-seekers have been accommodated probably sees the Left as a liberalisation of the legislation. I am sorry that the Labour Party never managed to do that liberalisation while they were in government. Rather, on the contrary, many were simply put on hold to stay there. After all, it was the Workers' Party that introduced the temporaryity condition for the lone minor asylum seekers, who must wait until they become 18 years old to be sent out. It's hard to compare these two things. It was the Workers' Party that removed the reasonableness condition and would replace it with vulnerability criteria, which it is a little difficult to fully understand what constitutes. I would have preferred to see the Workers' Party join the Left in reintroducing the reasonableness condition. We had then achieved real liberalisation also in the case of the lone minor asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2005	The left says in their comments that they have a positive view of migration, and that they have well 400 million. extra on the immigration field in its alternative budget. The Left has not promoted its budget, but is included in a budgetary agreement with the Government and the Christian People's Party. The left also has ambitions to become part of the government. I have gone through the budgetary agreement to try to find traces of the budgetary priorities of the Left. The tracks of bet are very hard to find. On the contrary, The appropriations allocated to the volunteer coordinator were considerably less, which the representative had in mind was very important in the integration work. Is the Left satisfied with the impact they have had on immigration in the budget agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2012	Firstly, the Left has promoted its own alternative proposal, which we have first voted in favour of. Then we have voted subsidiaryly for a majority budget with the government parties. We had in our own alternative budget proposals to accept 3,000 more quota refugees. Now there were 1,000 more than the government originally proposed. Unlike the Center Party, which did not propose any more, I would say that it is a significant breakthrough. It is also important for many district municipalities, which get new residents. Some of them also get some new jobs. In terms of volunteering, one might say that the volunteer coordinators are what we didn't get. We also did not increase the subsidy for families with children living in reception. However, we have had a great deal of impact in terms of other measures in the voluntary sector. We have e.g. has received 20 million. kr more for Jobbsjansen, we have activity grants for children in asylum recipients, we have grants to immigrant organisations of 12 million. kr. So I think it's good with penetration here for [[President clubs]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2021	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2026	I am pleased that the Left and also the Christian People's Party want to be with SV and ensure a reasonable condition in the assessment of refugees to be sent on an internal flight. SV and Left are probably also very much in agreement with many of the points that we have prioritised in our alternative budgets. There has been a lot of talk about the quality of the reception, and this is a point that I am a bit surprised at at at Left: Once you have built up the capacity on reception, you have had other criteria – you have put more emphasis on quality – than when you have built down. This means that you are at risk of eliminating some of the receptions that have been very good at integration, that have worked well for very many years, that have a very high level of competence, and that can indicate very high levels of participation in both education and working life. What is the reason why the Left believes that the job that the government is doing in this area is okay enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2033	Firstly, the left concern that SV has shares is linked to the receptions that have done a very good job. However, it is also a challenge that there will now be fewer asylum seekers in Norway. For this reason, we also have to look at the total capacity. Then there are also possibilities for thinking new. When we received so many in 2015, it gave us some new aha experiences, among other things. related to technology and how we organise the receiver. We see that there are opportunities to organise this for the future, as there are great opportunities for such inflows into Norway as they came in 2015 – either because of war and conflict, or that climate disasters simply lead to migration and refugee crises. We have to prepare for the fact that there are waves that will come back, and then we have to do things better. We're open to try out these new reception centers. We see that there are challenges with them, but we're going into that with open eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2042	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2048	We are lucky enough to be allowed to live in Norway, in a democracy based on the principles of the rule of law. But far from it all is as lucky as we are. 65 million people are fleeing the world today, people who are internally displaced, or who have embarked on a dangerous journey, away from war and persecution. Norway cannot help everyone, but we still have a responsibility to help some of the world’s most vulnerable. In this work we must have an overall approach. We need to prevent the need for people to move, to contribute to stability and security, to secure trade with vulnerable countries, to ensure assistance and to facilitate good environmental policies. In addition, we need to ensure that those who come to Norway and who have the right to protection are given the opportunity of education, school and work. All good forces must be united here. We need to facilitate good cooperation between the state, the municipalities and the voluntary and non-profit sector. The UN High Commissioner estimates that there are about 1.2 million people in need of protection in safe countries outside the neighbourhoods, so-called quota refugees or transfer refugees. That's an increase of 72 pst. since 2014. Quota refugees are the most vulnerable refugees. There are people who live in deep despair and who experience war and conflict, abuse and exploitation from authorities and criminal networks, people who we have a responsibility to help, especially at a time when there are far fewer asylum seekers than before in Norway, and because the capacity and competences built up in Municipal Norway provide the opportunity to help more people. When the government presented its draft government budget for 2018, it went back to the red-green level for the number of quota refugees. I am therefore very pleased that the Christian People's Party, together with the Left, was given the advantage of doubling the number of quota refugees for 2018. I think this is both right and important, so we want to focus on and thank you for that. That's good. For the Christian People's Party, it is also important to ensure good integration of the people who have the right to stay in Norway. We have to do what we can to prevent alienation and parallel societies. The civil sector and the voluntary nature contribute to providing people with the right to protection, just protection, networks and not least to a meaningful everyday life. I am therefore pleased that the Christian People's Party was given the opportunity to correct the cuts to non-governmental organisations that are engaged in integration work on asylum recipients and in the municipalities, as well as that we were given the opportunity to strengthen the activity of children in asylum recipients. These are actions promoted by a majority, and that is good. Integration work does not work on its own. There are many measures that need to be ensured, and strengthening the voluntary sector with a special focus on children will be important in the long term to ensure an inclusive society. The quality sign that we can be an inclusive and good society is that it focuses on the children. It is said that the government and the IMDi will reduce the number of settlement municipalities, and that this will particularly affect smaller municipalities in the districts. Many small municipalities have done a very good integration work and have contributed to the work of many refugees. There is still too little work to be done, and the key to good integration is to increase this proportion. Together with the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left, we have said that the size of a municipality should not be decisive for whether or not to settle refugees. Conditions must be possible for work and good integration. Work means that they do not go from action to action; they must be real, good jobs. It is important that integration skills are maintained in the municipalities. Finally, I just want to point out a little bit here, which is that someone has registered that there is uncertainty about who is going to manage the 19.5 million. kr included in the agreement under Chapter 496, item 71. This money is a reversal of the cut under Chapter 496, item 71, and the funds are to be managed as they had been managed if the cut had not been implemented. Has the Christian People's Party received everything we wanted through this budgetary agreement? The answer is no. Neither does any of the other parties – this is a settlement. Immigration and integration policies will provide us with ample opportunity to come back to the rest of the year, except for the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2075	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2080	Twelve organisations ask Norway to receive 5,000 quota refugees next year. The Christian People's Party Youth Organisation supports this requirement. The negotiations that have now been between the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Government's parties have made it possible to increase the government's proposal by 1 000. By accepting quota refugees, we give new hope to stateless refugees, politically persecuted and particularly vulnerable children and women who are entitled to and need protection. Does the Christian People's Party believe that this heart issue has been given enough room in the compromise that the Christian People's Party and the Left have made with the Right and Advance Party on the budget for 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2087	I'm very proud that we have a youth organization that is ambitious on behalf of these. I also note that, in a budgetary settlement, we have achieved exactly the same number as the Labour Party wanted in its alternative budget, so then the impact cannot have been so bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2092	As the representative said in his post, and as stated in the comments, the Christian People's Party believes that the size of the municipalities should not be decisive for the settlement of the municipalities. This means that small municipalities should also be able to settle, and that they will decide that those with a good record of integration should settle refugees. We fully agree with that. Therefore, I wonder whether the Christian People's Party is considering voting for the proposal of the rest of the opposition parties that go out on exactly the same thing: ‘The government asks the government to assume that the request to the municipalities for the residence of refugees shall not be based on the selection of municipalities by size, but on the results of integration into social life.’ Will the Christian People's Party vote for that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2102	That's a great challenge. Everyone agrees here, so it's easy for us to vote for a majority proposal we're in.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2107	The SV and the Christian People's Party also agree on very many points in terms of asylum and refugee policy, and in terms of integration policy. One of the problems of integration policy is the rhetoric that the Council of State, in particular, has had, which seems alienating, and which makes many in no way feel welcome or seen. But the second is some of the intrusions that have been made especially in family reunification policy, which in SV's view are very family indispensable, and which are devastating for integration, because you have to wait a long time and may not be allowed to be with your family until many years have passed – and no one gets it. Does the representative agree that there is a need to make changes to the family reunification policy in the field of asylum in order to improve integration?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2114	Yes. The representative Bransdal agrees that you need to keep your eyes up at all times to see how you can make the best possible arrangements. If we get knowledge that the way we choose is not good and is not the best, I owe it to people to look at it. In fact, the most important policy here is not rhetoric. The answer is yes, but one must see the frames and conditions around before one can answer unconditionally yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2121	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2126	The number of asylum seekers arriving in Norway in 2017 has been low. A total of 2 500 ordinary asylum seekers and 1 250 relocated are expected to arrive. No fewer ordinary asylum seekers have arrived in Norway since 1997. It is expected that the number will remain low in 2018. Few asylum seekers mean that the government can now reduce the appropriations for the reception of asylum seekers and the treatment of asylum cases. Overall, the government's proposal to grant the «Protection and Immigration» programme was reduced by 1.6 billion. kr, compared to the 2017 balance. These are funds that can now be used for other important tasks. Aid for refugee measures in Norway under the Ministry of Justice and Defence is proposed to be reduced by 850 million. kr and will include: be used to help more refugees in the neighbourhoods. The government will also give priority to return in 2018. The increased resources received by the police in recent years for the identification and investigation of illegal persons in Norway continue in 2018. Non-protected asylum seekers who do not travel on a voluntary basis will be forced to return. This is important in order to maintain confidence in the institution of asylum and send a clear signal to them without a need for protection that assesses travel. Several heavy criminals who have committed many crimes have been sent out of the country. These are complicated issues that have required effort over many years. We are particularly pleased to have sent out multi-criminal foreigners who have cost the state several million dollars a year. Due to a high number of shipments over several years and reduced asylum arrivals, the return target is reduced from 9 000 to 7 500. The government proposes to further develop solutions with a co-location of UDI and PU at Arrival Centre Østfold. This will provide for more effective treatment in the initial phase of asylum – shorter time in reception, faster residence of persons with a need for protection and faster return. The forecast for the number of asylum seekers in 2018 is uncertain. The Centre also provides us with the necessary preparedness to increase the number of asylum seekers. Since 2012, nearly 80,000 refugees and their family members have been granted a residence permit. I want to commend the municipalities for the efforts they have made to settle and integrate refugees, but at the same time I want to stress that this poses major challenges for our society. There has been a large immigration into Norway that not only requires financial appropriations but also puts pressure on our ability to integrate. Many have to learn the language, and a large number have to enter the workplace. This is not something that comes of itself. Dwelling needs and number of municipalities to settle refugees are halved from 2017 to 2018 and common criteria have been developed for the assessment and determination of the requests of municipalities, including population, level of employment and results of the introduction programme over time. Although there are now fewer residents, integration work will be one of our greatest challenges in the years to come. In the State budget, the Government proposes a number of measures to improve Norwegian skills for refugees and immigrants: obligation for asylum seekers to participate in training of Norwegian language and culture and Norwegian values, enhancing their competence and continuing training of teachers in Norwegian training and developing Norwegian tests for certification of higher language levels. Furthermore, the government will establish a mentoring system for young people exposed to negative social control, honor-related violence and forced marriage, in line with recommendations from the Government Action Plan ‘The right to decide on their own lives’. Some 27 000 immigrants will leave the introduction system and meet with a labour market where, according to Nav, there are about 64 000 unemployed. The next year and the following year some will come out. There are also regional variations in the demand for labour in municipalities. Central and local authorities must, through close follow-up, facilitate access to the labour market as much as possible. At the same time, each individual must take up his or her own life and make an effort. It is essential that as many people as possible come to work and contribute to society. The evaluation of the introduction system Fafo commissioned the Ministry of Justice and Defence, showed that the scheme has a great potential for improvement, and that is something we want to work with in the future. The Government in its 2018 state budget proposal provides for a strong stance on immigration and integration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2157	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2162	As has been said here in a previous line change, the Council of State and the Government have been overrun by their own majority on the Stortinget by increasing the number of quota refugees by 100 pst in the budget. more than what the government and the Council of State said was proper. Governments have followed up that message and have commented, among other things. in the newspaper, that it is not appropriate to receive more refugees, but now the Council of State has been overrun by the Right Party, its own party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party in this matter. Does the Council of State consider that the Progress Party on the Stortinget operates irresponsible asylum policies when they are involved in such an increase and are overstepping its own Council of State and Government, or does the Council of State now consider this to be a responsible policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2171	I am very pleased with the policies of both the Progress Party and the Right here in the house. They are taking a tough course in immigration policy. We've seen that in a number of cases where the other party, which is usually with us, has gone to other solutions. In the case of quota refugees, there will be a real reduction next year compared to this year. I'm very happy about that. I know that in such negotiations one has to give and take. It's part of what's the negotiating dynamics of all kinds of things. Then the signal outside is that there will be a reduction. After what I can see, it's probably at the same level as the Workers' Party wants for next year, so that's okay, right?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2178	I record that when the Progress Party is involved and increasing immigration, it is responsible. When others take hold, and that's a much smaller number, it's completely irresponsible. But to another issue that has also been raised from the pulpit here: there is now a debate in the EU on the distribution mechanisms of refugees. The EU is discussing and seeing this in the context of the Dublin Agreement. I wonder what position the Council of State has taken on behalf of Norway in these negotiations, because I expect Norway to be actively involved in that discussion. It would be interesting to hear the position taken by the Council of State on Norway in this discussion on a new distribution mechanism, in the context of the Dublin Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2185	We are concerned that we should get a fairer distribution in Europe and welcome all such initiatives, because what we saw in 2015, and what we have seen over many years, is that there are some countries that get very many, while other countries are not at all attractive to those who travel to Europe. That's why we're concerned about it. We are part of the Schengen cooperation. That means we can participate in these discussions, but we can't participate in the decisions. There is a great deal of disagreement within the EU, as the representative of Lauvås is probably aware. It's a pretty big split. But we welcome measures that can contribute to a fairer distribution. Norway is one of the countries with the highest pressures, along with many more. What characterises the countries that have accepted many over many years is that they have good welfare models, they are attractive, good societies to live in. And then one is also going to be more interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2194	There were strong reactions around the country as it became known that small municipalities would be excluded as current settlement municipalities for refugees in 2018. In the Central Party, we have difficulty understanding the reason for this, all the time there are small municipalities that have shown very good results in terms of integration and getting refugees into work. In a proposal we have with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, we ask the government to make a request to the municipalities that the settlement of refugees should not be based on municipality size, but on what kind of result the municipalities have achieved in terms of integration into society. Does the Council of State consider that this proposal is contrary to the Council of State's own assessment of what should be the criterion for requests to municipalities to settle refugees, or will the Council of State recommend the entire Stortinge to vote in favour of this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2201	When the municipalities are to be asked to settle, they are delegated to the National Committee for the Settlement of Refugees. There's also KS represented, along with the IMFI. I believe that next year you should live in line with the requests that Stortinget has now received. Then I believe that there is a need to look at whether to continue with the same model, because I agree with the representative, Mr Greni, that it is not the population that should decide whether to settle refugees, but the result of integration, which labour market is in the area, and how good the individual's ability to succeed in Norway. I believe that it is not right to settle people for unemployment – which you may in some cases do – or to settle people in municipalities where the results are not good enough. That is why this is something I want to look forward to, but I think we should first of all follow the requests made by the IMDI.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2208	I want to follow up a bit on the question that the Labour Party had, because I don't think the answer was very good. This is the cooperation in Europe to share responsibility for refugees. The Dublin Agreement is very unbalanced and distorted as it is now. We know that some initiatives have been taken, but the question was: What initiatives have Norway taken to achieve this? What we now know is that this government has instructed us to start resuming Dublin return to Greece – the European country with the most strained, refugees who are in refugee camps and who have untreated applications, who themselves have a deep economic crisis, and who are in a very different situation than Norway is in. So the question is again: What initiatives has Norway taken through this cooperation to improve the sharing of responsibilities between the different European countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2213	Norway is not a member of the EU, but we are a member of Schengen and have a place around the table. That is why we are involved in these discussions initiated by the EU, and on which there is a very big discussion, where several countries are opposed in the discussion. I would like to comment on the claim that is linked to Greece. It was the UDI that took the initiative in March to change this practice, and the background for it was a recommendation from the European Commission, which reported changes in Greece. It was on this basis that the Ministry of Justice in June of this year instructed the UDI to resume Dublin return to Greece in line with the Commission’s recommendation. As long as legislation is in force, it is indeed important that we follow it closely, and as of now it is the Dublin Code, which also contributes to the return to Greece, which is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2220	As the Council of State also pointed out, the influx of asylum seekers to Norway has been very low in the current year. But it's not given that it's going to be like this in the future. A few likely scenarios could be that the EU agrees on a much more promising distribution than it has so far. Some EU countries do not accept them. The second scenario, which is perhaps the most dangerously close, is that Italy and Greece stop paying transit countries to hold back refugee flows. Either way, both will be able to influence, but are there any of these scenarios that the Council of State fears more than others?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2227	I think it's very uncertain times we're going to meet, and a main reason for that is that we know that it's an industry that makes sure that people are transported to Europe, that's the traffickers. They earn huge amounts with little risk of punishment, little risk if anything happens, and they have huge revenues. There's something that makes us have to turn around all the time when we see that new flows occur, you have e.g. Spain has become more attractive again. I also believe that population trends in Africa and the conditions in many countries mean that pressure on Europe will be held up. That is why some of my concerns about the future are that the pressure on Europe will continue unless good solutions are found between the European countries. Fortunately, bombs are being used in the EU to put in place precisely these types of schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2235	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2240	By participating in the labour market, most people will be able to support themselves and their families and thus avoid poverty. That's why getting more people to work is so important to the Workers' Party. We want to make sure that more people qualify for work. We give priority to this in our alternative budget, including: by strengthening Jobjessen by 50 million. kr. About 5,000 children of kindergarten age do not go to kindergarten, only in Oslo. Many of them belong to families who receive NOK 7 500 per child each month in cash support. Cash support was introduced when Norway lacked childcare facilities. Now we're on our way to full kindergarten in Oslo. According to the government, the increase in the cash support rates leads mothers with children of cash-assisted age to work less than they would do without the bet increase. Cash support is a barrier to mothers qualifying for employment. This is what the Working Party will do. We therefore propose to give Oslo the opportunity to try out a part of the city without cash support. If the women receiving cash support are to be able to make free choices, they must be able to live on their own income. Therefore, the cash support is also an equal opportunities trap. Cash support is the main obstacle to integration into Norwegian society. It's time to stand up for these women. We cannot accept that parents or siblings exercise social control in their families. Girls are often hit. What is needed in order for men who lack acceptance for women's freedom and equality, who govern women's lives by balancing the border between forced marriages and arranged marriages with a high degree of pressure, to change attitudes? This is a governance that shows everything from childhood on, for example. by not allowing girls to participate in common arenas because they are denied association with boys and men outside their own family. We must dry to hold men who prevent women from living their lives as they themselves desire to be responsible. Social control is not good and must be prevented. It is serious when the NRC reports that many children are growing up in poverty and that juvenile delinquency is increasing on the island of Tøjen in Oslo. Poverty and the possibility of own income and work are related. Education is the key for young people who fall outside. Then the school must be a place for good learning. AKS is part of the school day for most students in Oslo School, but not for everyone. The Workers' Party has therefore introduced half-time free of charge on the AKS in many of the districts of Oslo. The hours at AKS and in kindergarten provide children with extra social training, professional challenges and experience. According to the evaluation of the Groruddalssatzingen, this appears to provide students with better school outcomes, and declines in high school dropouts were observed. Integration is going well in Norway. Many who have migrated to Norway live on their own income, and with their children, things are even better. We need to continue the work of strengthening integration. At the same time, we must cheer on those who are doing well and who are role models for all those who come after.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2255	Many have changed since the 21st century. Only in the last five years have almost 80,000 people – such as the Council of State here instead – who have been suspended and who are to be integrated into society. Next year, more than 27,000 people who have completed the introduction programme will enter ordinary society. It's going to be a big problem when we know that there are already over 60,000 unemployed. We know that current social exclusion can lead someone into radicalisation and even more into depression. We need to be able to recognise that over the years, Norwegian integration policies have led to both outreach and unemployment. At the same time, we see that the right side of Europe is emerging. There is great immigration skepticism and Muslim enmity. We have seen it in the Netherlands, France, Austria — in Gothenburg, nynazistars mobilised to march, and nordics also participated. We also think about the Nazi demonstration in Kristiansand this summer. We don't succeed in integration, we fail as societies. We all have a big job to do. We can't have a society where a large part of the newly arrived people don't learn Norwegian, get out of work and depend on social security to live – as long as they're working. It is not good for individuals, nor is it good for the welfare state. Integration needs to be improved, and it sets up the budget that we are adopting today. The government has also decided to launch a strategy for integration policy, which I believe will be exciting to follow. Erna Solberg was, after all, the first person to ask questions and put equality and the immigrant environment on the agenda. As a municipal minister, she passed a law on the right and obligation to Norwegian education. Yet, seeing the challenges we face today can be much better. An integration strategy will help us improve. The Perspective Communication, the Brochmann Selection and the recent Fafo Report on Introductory Programmes and Training in Norwegian and Social Knowledge show that the work of integrating both refugees and other immigrants into working life is not good enough. Nav numbers of first-time immigrants show that the unemployment rate is three times as high as that of the population. The participation of women from Somalia is down to 5 pst. Congratulation with integration and rapid building and good results in qualification work is important to maintain the Norwegian welfare model and trust in society. In order to improve integration work, there is a need to see both reception, composition, qualification and opportunities for work in a better and wider context. The budget we adopt today is important, and it goes in the right direction. It is about co-location of the UDI and the police in the initiating asylum phase in the showrooms and introducing obligations for training for asylum seekers in reception. Then, in my opinion, the time has come to make considerably stricter demands on the municipalities. Actually, it is strange that numbers of hours are required in a Norwegian course, not the result of the teaching. With the budget we adopt today, we get a knowledge boost among the teachers in Norwegian education, and we get to develop a public test at C1 level. We are also given the means to implement increased numbers of people trying in Norwegian training for adult immigrants. We also strengthen job opportunities, and we also strengthen the economy of voluntary organisations. Forced marriage and sexual mutilation are serious violations of Norwegian, international and fundamental human rights. Those who become the framework have the right to participate in society through work, education and voluntary engagement. The government has an action plan for negative social control. The action plan contains five lines of action and 28 concrete actions. The budget also provides for a mentoring scheme for young people who are subjected to such negative social control and honor-related selection and coercion. Refugee children are another vulnerable group, and children with a migrant background may face specific challenges compared to other children. Here you can also improve your ability to participate in kindergarten. The fight against child poverty is also strengthened. In some municipalities, it is proposed to balance the municipal budget by receiving several refugees. I think one did the same thing when I was a local politician, but I think that time must be over. Only those municipalities that have the capacity to succeed in integration should be allowed to be host municipalities. Rightly, we want a strict, fair and prudent asylum policy, but we must also continue to be drivers in order to get the most out of work and education.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2274	The Workers' Party is concerned with fair distribution in a world where we see that the differences are increasing, and in a world where we see that more and more people have to spend time on refugees because of wars and conflicts, and where you fear for your own and your family's lives. We also see that more and more people have to flee due to climate change. Either the crops dry away, or they rain away. The result is equal to. These people no longer get a basis for life, and what do you do? Well, you try to save yourself and your own as best you can. For some reason, over 65 million people are fleeing from their homes or countries of origin. The global refugee situation is serious for all of us. It affects us all, and it will affect us all. Norway as one of the richest countries in the world, as it is called, can make good contributions to the world’s refugee situation. There's no doubt about it. At the same time, in Norway we cannot help everyone. There's no doubt about it either. Then there's a greater lift, a greater lift from many nations. Here, Norway should put even greater emphasis on coordinated European action and have an even greater focus on how the United Nations system can become more effective. There are many possibilities in an unwieldy landscape, where there are many systems that have to work together. Here the Council of State and the Government should see the possibilities, take hold and work even more forward-looking, as it is called, towards our common European and international partners. The goal must be to get more help. The goal must be that people should not take refuge in order to save themselves and their own. Then we get to remind each other that we ourselves have been in distress and war in this country, which led to many hundreds of thousands emigrating to America, and during the last world war many thousand had to flee the country because they feared for their lives. It's our close story, but as we easily forget to bring with us when we have these debates. We can't really allow that. If we forget to have our own close story, there is danger in progress, and we must not in any way give ourselves or new generations the impression that we ourselves have not had challenges in this country, with hunger, distress, assault and war. That's the story. I see from the agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party that the number of quota refugees is doubled in proportion to that proposed by the Government and the Council. This is the Party of Advancement, and this is what the Council of State is going to do, even though the Council of State has said that it was not appropriate to do so. I'm just recording that there's a certain outrage between government-frp and government-rights and those that represent the same parties on the Stortinget. The Labour Party represents a long-term line in asylum and immigration policy. Not later than our last national meeting in 2017, the national meeting concluded that the Workers' Party will continue a strict, fair and humane asylum and refugee policy. This means that those on the basis of protection should be protected in Norway, but it also means that those who do not have protection are to be returned. Such an approach is essential if the institution of asylum is to be sustainable, both nationally and internationally. It also means that we have to have control of our borders, that we have to be prepared to deal with exceptional situations, and I still point out that 2015 is an example that the government did not have control. The government was unprepared to take the necessary steps when many came across Norway’s borders. Finally, it is possible to hope that the situation in the world can be improved, that fewer people will have to flee, and that more people can be safe in their home country, but unfortunately it is enough that the challenges of refugees will continue to exist in 2018. Then we have to prepare ourselves as best we can to handle it in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2291	We all agree that we have an obligation to accept people who are entitled to protection. Since 2012, we have given residence permits to about 80,000 people as refugees or through family reunification. Only next year, 27,000 people are going to work and education. The debate on immigration is too often isolated to become a question of how many people we are going to accept, and it is clear that this is a very important dimension, because how many we are going to accept is important for how well we are able to integrate. But it's sometimes too quiet about what we're going to do to integrate those who are coming, and it's often quiet both from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, and it might seem that the idea drought has taken them here as well. We live in a country that has low unemployment, small differences and high trust between people. That's something we need to take care of, but it requires that we succeed in integrating. If we fail, we risk people falling outside, and that is not acceptable or sustainable either for society or for the individual. The government's goal is that everyone who lives and lives in Norway will get a job, become taxpayers and participaters in society as soon as possible. In the municipalities there is now a daily effort to integrate the nearly 80,000 people who have come to Norway, and it is clear that rapid settlement in the municipalities is important for our success in integration. There has been a broad commitment to the integration field over several years from the government and from the cooperation parties. We have launched our own integration message with 69 actions. We demand training in Norwegian language. We increase the quality of Norwegian training, we have a work-oriented introduction programme, and we have established integration receptions – to mention a few things. Together with education, we also know that work is incredibly important for good integration. Having a job to go to has a self-esteem for the individual, but it also makes learning language easier. In addition, if you have had some work experience, it may be easier to get a job number two and three. Therefore, it is good that we decided not so many days ago that it would be easier for asylum seekers to get a job while waiting for a residence permit. At the same time, integration is not just about being in school or working and talking Norwegian. Integration is also about having an understanding and respect for the values, laws and rules in force in Norway. Everyone who comes here must understand and respect that we live in an equal, free and liberal state of law where everyone has the right to say, mean and believe what they want. Therefore, the government has introduced training in Norwegian culture and Norwegian values for asylum seekers. We're turning down negative social control. We have put forward a separate action plan against negative social control, and in the State budget there is also money allocated to a separate mentoring system. These are just a few of the measures taken by the government to improve integration. There's a lot that's been done, but there's also a lot that's left. At the same time, we need to constantly develop our policies to find the best solutions to integrate as much as possible. Therefore, it is good that the government has announced that they intend to launch a strategy on integration policy. In our society, all those who work hard and on it will have the opportunity to succeed. It shall apply irrespective of the country from which it comes. All children in Norway will meet a school that gives them good conditions to become exactly what they want. Adults should be given the opportunity to get to work and not be passive. But at the same time, we must remember that we cannot adopt ourselves for good integration alone. It actually requires each of us to make an effort in our neighborhood, in the class, in the workplace or in the municipalities. Employers have to give a chance to those who are now out of work. Together with the billions we spend on the integration of the state budget, which municipalities spend on integration measures, it is important that we remember everyday integration, for which each of us has a responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2312	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2317	The ambition of the Labour Party is that Norway should be the world’s most inclusive society, and we believe that work for all is the best solution to the challenge of integration as well. Only in this way will we achieve one of the most important objectives of our integration policy, namely economic self-sufficiency. In the future, the growth rate of the elderly will put the welfare state under pressure. To avoid this, we need more people working, and we need more skilled workers in the health and care sector. If we are to do this, we are dependent not only on increased recruitment to these professions in general, but that immigrants who come to Norway, who are in Norway, choose these professions in the future. Education and competence for all form an important part of the Norwegian model. It helps to ensure productivity, so that businesses can bear better real wages than in countries with which we compete, not least for low-wage groups. It is this line of competence that has given the Nordic region the unique combination of efficiency and smoothing. The pressure on the labour market must not be offset by light-wine solutions or by aggressions for low wages and the deregulation of Norwegian labour. The Labour Party will make it a primary task to enable municipalities and the labour force to get people into work and into society in the years to come. That's why the Workers' Party strengthens the effort to get domestic immigrant women to work through Jobjesen, which many people have been involved in. We want faster monitoring and recognition of the competences of those who come to Norway to get immigrants to work. If Norway is to succeed in integrating, we must also succeed in the big cities. Preventing social differences is important and necessary. Therefore, we will ensure and increase the area investments significantly also for 2018. If we are to be able to include new people in the Norwegian community, we are also dependent on seeing all as individuals and individuals and participants in our community rather than as participants in other and foreign communities. This must be reflected in the way we develop our policies and how we talk about this policy area in the future. Early efforts are essential for us as a society to succeed in this important task. It is not only important for us as a large community, but it is important for individuals, for families and for good neighborhoods that all those who come here feel that Norway is a good country to live in, and that Norway is a country where everyone can participate on the basis of their assumptions. Therefore, linguistic knowledge and early efforts are crucial for success in this area even in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2330	Norway is a country with small differences, good welfare and high trust between people. It wants the Right to keep. Our vision is to create a Norway with opportunities for everyone, including our new countrymen. That is why integration policy is so important to us. And although we are good at integration compared to many other European countries, we have failed to integrate the refugees into working and social life. This budget contains a number of good measures for faster settlement and better performance in qualification work. It's been up to both the state council and several others. I heard the exchange of lines earlier, and I have to say that in some contexts I have also wondered a little bit about a party like SV, which I believe is genuinely concerned with asylum and refugee policy, talking much less about integration. In the right, we want to change to keep going. If we are to succeed in maintaining the welfare model and trust in society, we must also succeed in integrating and creating the inclusive diversity we want. One of the most important measures of this government is the commitment to integration, taking more account of the self-help and needs of the inhabitants. In my town, Kristiansand, we have good experience with this, and there's a lot to learn here. We have heard several times that Norway has received around 80,000 immigrants through different schemes from 2012 and that 27 000 people are now entering the labour market. That's a big problem. It has been interesting to see that the Workers' Party in its alternative state budget has few measures for newcomers. Will refugees and immigrants really be out of work for years before action is taken by the State? For us in the Right, it will be a failure statement. We believe that one should be integrated from day one. Every day that is unrelated to work increases the likelihood of not getting in. Therefore, business needs to be brought into practice in the past. The introduction programme must be more about preparing immigrants for work, and we must be clearer to those who are coming, that we have expectations of great self-reliance. I am pleased that it is a civil government that governs the integration work. I am particularly pleased that the government and the Council of State are now embarking on a new strategy for integration policy. It is a loving measure, and I am looking forward to the further work in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2349	When the refugee crisis came to Norway's borders in the autumn of 2015, many showed themselves from their best side, for the government was paralyzed, but the people were not. All over Norway, people showed what lives in us and what the value of volunteering is. So a big thank you to all those who put up in the community with warm clothes, the ones who brought children to football training, the ones who met as homework aids, and the ones who set up as refugee guides. They are the everyday heroes of integration. Voluntary work must be safeguarded and appreciated. This government does the opposite when they talk it down and systematically suggest cutting off the organization life. Although it has become an annual budgetary process that the Left and Christian People's Party is cheering that they are being corrected, it is nevertheless sending a very bad signal to all those who are in the voluntary organizations or in civil society. In the field we are discussing today, it was proposed this year to cut to NOAS, to Juss-Bus and to legal advice for women. However, something that was not proposed was the Human Rights Service, the organisation that almost quadrupled the State aid almost four years ago, or as Hege Storhaug stated after the government change four years ago: ‘We don’t even need to apply for support. We just get the money after us." The Human Rights Service is anything but integration work. In the past, the IMFI Technical Council has been removing the aid, but it has been overrun by Sylvi Listhaug and Erna Solberg. You'd think there's a limit somewhere to what you want to be involved in financing. I thought that limit was reached in the fall, when the Human Rights Service invited to a photo project to document what they even called the ‘cultural revolution’, which is about taking pictures of Muslims in everyday life. This is the persecution of Muslims in Norway. It's harassment, it's part of creating fear and prejudice, and at least it's not good integration policy Human Rights Service gets support to operate with. All opposition parties have said that this should have consequences for their State aid. Many right-wing representatives have also said the same thing. The only people who left their hands over them were the Progress Party who wanted to protect their friends. It's nice that the Left says in the debate that they disagree that the Human Rights Service should receive integration support, but today they're actually in favour of it. I am disappointed that the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right are involved in letting the Advance Party decide. It's small sums, but the signal effect is very big. Today we had the opportunity to say that the harassment they're involved with is unacceptable and something that we big communities don't accept. Unfortunately, Sylvi Listhaug has received the last word.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2364	In the last few years, the refugee debate in Norway has been too much driven by the signal of how much capacity someone thinks it is in the municipalities, and then they think first and foremost about how many employees you have in the reception apparatus and the like today – not how many people have the capacity to integrate and provide work in a good way. It has to be that if we are to set a framework and create lines for our immigration policy, there has to be how many we are able to integrate, which will be crucial – nothing else. In this debate SV has said that the Progress Party is the most immigration negative or integration negative party the government has ever had. I think it's very special to make such claims. When the Progress Party and I think about integration, we think about being effective, taking people seriously and giving them a fair chance to succeed. When SV sat in government, the average residence time before residence in the municipalities was about eight months. We've taken clear and clear steps to improve this so that you can get a real chance to succeed in society by getting settled and getting out and getting opportunities. That's what's good integration, not all the rhetoric that SV uses, and that's really empty words and things they haven't been able to deliver in the past. SV also talks about rhetoric that creates crime among immigrants in Norway. I find it strange that there are the same challenges in several other European countries with much higher crime among immigrants, and there is no Sylvi Listhaug Minister, so you have to be able to limit the influence of Sylvi Listhaug. The Labour Party criticises the Christian People's Party for doing exactly the same thing as themselves in the budget, by accepting 2,120 refugees. I find it strange that the Workers' Party is so divided in its own policy that they have to criticize the Christian People's Party to do exactly the same. The Labour Party also believes that they are the party with the long-term lines, and it was mentioned from the pulpit that if you needed to stay in Norway, you would be, and if you didn't need it, you would get out. It is strange that it is not long since the Workers' Party adopted the opposite. They decided that those who do not actually have a real need for protection in Norway should be given a new chance to stay and not be sent out. It's suspicious. I would like to end by reassuring the Centre Party: we have made it clear in our remarks on the budget that we also want small municipalities to be able to live if they have good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2381	I also want to refer to the representative Andersen and these claims that you talk down. Then it is very strange that all other countries that have had large immigration have exactly the same challenges associated with the integration of the second generation. In Sweden, they have not talked about a problem, but they have swept it under the carpet. They have great challenges. In Denmark, they have talked even more about the challenges than what we have done in Norway, and they have major challenges. We're in the middle, and we also have our challenges. This is just something that everyone has to face, and it doesn't get any easier if you don't try to talk about it. So to the representative, Mr Greni, who made a statement here that integration reception is for those who are closest to the labour market. I do not know where this information has been obtained, but they are at least incorrect. What is the matter with the integration recipients is that this is for those who come from countries where they are likely to stay. Then they get a run at the integration receivers that make it possible to succeed faster. The preliminary evaluation that is coming shows that this promises well, and then it is strange that more parties here in the Chamber have simply voted against establishing them. If you want all receptions to be integration receptions, it is nice to have voted against starting with five. At least you should be able to support it, but I record that you do not. So to the Job Jansen: Those who are now to be included in Job Jansen are first immigrant women who are at home without social assistance, because with social assistance they are entitled to help from Nav's other apparatus. Then there are those with transitional benefits: we want young people with a right to secondary education, but who need primary education, to get help through the job, that is, part of the money, as well as those who need an additional year on the introduction program. The strange thing is – when you listen to all these objections and all the resistance to them – that when it was addressed in the integration message, there were no comments against this. Nor was it in the 2017 budget. Then I register that you are now suddenly very opposed to it, but it is a little bit recent. We're going to have an evaluation of this, which will look at this scheme over several years, and then we're going to conclude. If it turns out that what was done in the past was more effective, then we'll do it. No one has any prestige in this. What we want is for people, women and those who need to integrate into Norwegian society to do it faster. No one has found any magic formula to succeed in it, and therefore we must constantly look for new ways to ensure good integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2399	The introduction challenges are real. But what helps is to have good proposals for schemes that actually help people, and not to talk so unilaterally negatively – as the Progress Party in particular does – about refugees and asylum seekers. The rhetoric that has been led has led many of the young people born in Norway and raised in Norway to write a lot of blogs and posts saying that they are always told that they never become Norwegian enough, that there is always reason to suspect them, to read statistics negatively, as the Council of State systematically does. In the case of Job spirit: that's a good methodology. The problem is that the methodology is now limited and not made available to people who could have used it. The social assistance scheme could use the Jobjesen scheme, because it is about even going home to women who may not get so much support at home to be in the workplace. The point here is to limit the schemes that have shown good results. So to these strange statements about SV and integration: Yes, I understand that it's a new committee. But then I'd like to ask the representative, for example. to read Document 8:29 S for 2015–2016, where SV promoted 51 proposals for better integration. They are there, these proposals that the Councils of State and representatives of the Right and the Party of Advancement talk about, but do nothing about, among other things. The introduction system, which we have all said in the last five years, needs to be improved — but that does not happen. Instead, you cut Norwegian training. We have proposed combining the introduction system with formal competence to allow those who can do so to take it within the introduction system, for example. in the professional field. There are others who have done it. We have a lot of proposals, which are about the university and higher education sectors having to offer those with a high level of education, that the recruitment industry can be used by those who need special work training, that you have to have other and better systems to ensure that all children get to kindergarten and get to use the SFO scheme. SV has promoted a wide range of proposals that have been voted down. Then it's a little strange to criticise SV for not having suggestions in this field, when the same parties vote the proposals down.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2410	When two becomes three, there may be both a little noise and a bit of trouble, said the prime minister when we opened the Christmas eel today. Once we have heard the Left's representative explain here that the Left is still standing by the inclusion of the reasonableness condition in the legislation, we can see how two are going to be three in the government, and how the policy in that area is going to change. Although both the Right and the Advance Party had been sent out speech points where it was said that the Workers' Party's proposal led to liberalisation, Left's Ketil Kjenseth gave a rather deadly response to it in his reply to my reply. The Progress Party and the Right were on three years ago, a much more liberalizing policy was than the proposals that the Council of State is now running and clawing to put in place legislation in its own department. The Labour Party and I believe that one of the most important things we can do for those who come to Norway is to make sure that they get a job. Therefore, I was a little surprised at the posts of the representative Tveiten Benestad, where she said that we were not betting on it. Well, we're actually spending 50 million. kr more than the government in order to get people into the job, which we believe is a good measure. We also have far more measures in this area that are below the Minister of Labour, which can also be used. Then I think it's nice that no more reflect on the challenge many encounters in Norway when they come here with education. The adult training at Gran, where I come from, I had a meeting not long ago. There will be acids with higher university education. They learn Norwegian in record time. They have French, they know Arabic, they often know more foreign languages, but they don't know English, and that's the end. They do not progress in the education cycle until they have been able to learn English similar to what has been done after primary school in Norway. Such an example, I think, should be taken into account by the Council of State to ensure that more people could move forward, get the necessary additional training to work in the Norwegian community. That would mean that more people could be active participants, not just passive recipients of social benefits, and that's what we want. If the government feels that it's an idea-dryer, we'd like to contribute more ideas. There have been many good suggestions on this in the past. I think, for example, putting more emphasis on NOKUT and real-life assessments is something that could make more people come out in the past into normal work, and that would be good for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2427	I just have to say that the representative, Mr Engen-Helgheim, is very strong in the wild on several occasions here. I do not find the whole thread in everything he makes of claims, such as that the Workers' Party is no longer strict, because of a decision made by the majority on 14 November. But as I said and as we have been confirmed here today – the Progress Party itself was present in 2014 when it came to long-term asylum seekers, was seen as much more liberalizing. That the Progress Party is currently waving around in this matter, we're just going to take note. There is no doubt that the Labour Party stands for a strict, fair and humane asylum policy – and all three words must be included when you read what the Labour Party stands for. Therefore it was also quite correct and absolutely necessary to correct on 14 November in Stortinget, as the majority of people did. I record that the representative Örmen Johnsen is very concerned about the same wild trail and is trying to give the impression that the Workers' Party is liberalizing, etc. It falls on its own unreasonableness. What is a shame is that the ‘decent Right’, which is once hot, is about to disappear because the Right has found it too good to sit in a good place and blush with his tail in every matter that the Progress Party has an opinion on when it comes to asylum and immigration policy. It's a sad sight to see that it's become like this. That shouldn't be necessary for the Right. They could put their foot down from time to time for this. Then I'm happy, at least I think I am, because I understood it so that the Christian People's Party will now support proposal No. 4, that all municipalities should settle. I understood it this way in the line change, and I'm very happy about it. Then I also perceive, not to be too brutal at the end: there are many good intentions about integration, many good suggestions also from the right. We're actually going to be able to work on them together.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2438	The representative of Lauvås does indeed smoke his own uncertainty and wing of politics by attacking the Right. I see it as a liberalisation when it comes to looking at an increase in the number of lone minor asylum seekers in Norway. It is a liberalisation of the policies we have had so far. It is also a liberalisation when you remove the tool that you really should have as a readiness: a right of instruction that the government should have. Then I'm back to the Aukrust representative, who had a criticism of the government's handling of the big influx in 2015. You didn't have the right tools, they weren't there. The Storting has now been asked to do so, and you have not done so. I note that there is a great deal of anxiety about the budgetary process and policies of the Left in government, and how to turn immigration and integration policies in different directions. I must then replicate that it was not quite easy when the Workers' Party put SV in government. I think that also meant negotiations, but they were in closed rooms. Today, there is no majority, as it was last time, when the Workers' Party could bring a pre-negotiated package to the Stortinget – with the SV and the Center Party – and say: that's what it will be. It's not like that today. Today there are negotiations, and there is openness about it. So for funds to organizations you don't like: Yes, the Human Rights Service provokes. I personally have not supported their image project, I have distanced myself from it. But we can't give support just to those we like, and to those who agree with us. I hope that also the Labour Party agrees. In a democracy you have to have everyone's votes, and voices should be heard even if you don't really like them. That is why we have supported this organisation, even though I personally do not agree with what they say.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2449	What many people with immigrant backgrounds say is that they live a life in two worlds. We had an incredibly strong view here last week, where several young people told us about what they've experienced. They live one life at home, and they live another life outside. What they're very clear about is that when there are large environments, the level of monitoring and social control is getting stronger. That's why integration has something to do with how many we take. It is about the freedom in which they are allowed to live in Norway. That's why there's a lot of disruptions among those who live like other generations of immigrants. It is so fascinating to listen to the representative Karin Andersen, because it sounds as if everything could have been solved if you had had 50 extra hours of Norwegian training at the asylum desk. The major crisis is that it has been brought down and replaced by training in Norwegian values and Norwegian culture. I don't think so. Firstly, people are now much shorter on asylum recipients. It's going much faster, much faster than when SV ran this policy. There were actually eight lost years of integration, if I may say so. That's why the vast majority of people don't get all these hours done. There will be legislative proposals from the government on the introduction system, including: the elements set out in the integration message. But we have to do more, and the reason why we wanted a report on the introduction system, was just to look at what it is that works, and what does not work. In view of that, I will promise the representative Karin Andersen that there will be further proposals from us on what more we will do with this arrangement. I can assure the representative of Aasrud that I am not mistaken with this decision. I am going to implement it as quickly as possible, in line with what is in my proposal, which is outlined to the parliamentary leaders. We have to implement it as quickly as possible, because we need to clarify – for the sake of those who wonder – who are covered by it, and who are not. I would like to thank you for a good debate. I think it will also be a good budget for 2018, which will lead to us having a bad course. Integration challenges are far from over. We have to work on that all the time. There are not two lines below that answer. Neither is it just money that will solve it. It's more complex than that, but this gives us at least a good starting point for continuing the important job.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2462	Now I hear a lot of talk about what immigration and integration policy should be like. In this context, liberalisation is a very scary word. My wish after this debate is, in fact, that we should all have a policy of immigration and integration, which is a humane policy, designed for the best interests of children and the need we need at all times. It may be a great wish, but it must be a good goal, and I think that is actually a goal that everyone should – and can – sign. I want to replicate to the representative Lauvås: either I must have been incredibly unclear, or the ears heard. What I said in the change of lines was that I had no need to vote on another proposal, because the majority proposal said exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2469	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2474	I fully agree with what the representative of the Christian People's Party now said, what the basis for what we are discussing should be. But it's not like that, even when it comes to what the Council of State now said about social control. When dealing with the integration message, the Commission proposed inter alia: SV that arrangements had to be put in place to withdraw the state subsidy to religious organisations that preach religious control, extreme control over girls and youth. We haven't seen anything else yet. We are waiting for these measures. SV proposes reinforced measures for those with problems of social control, as it is a major problem. However, it is also a problem that government members talk about youth born in Norway, have Norwegian citizenship and have never been anywhere else, are not Norwegian enough and really not belong here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2479	Immigrant youth is told that they never become Norwegian enough. Yes, there may be someone who gives such messages, but at least it is not the Progress Party. There has never been a single Progress Party politician who has told immigrant youth that they are not becoming Norwegian enough. What is the problem in immigrant communities is that they are told that they have become Norwegian. It is a problem that the Progress Party takes seriously, and it is a problem that requires effort. It's about drying up to look at the challenges and drying up to touch what can be difficult. The Progress Party has certainly taken the lead, just to help young immigrant girls in particular, who have been in a very difficult situation in Norway. It is clear that when you have Sweden as the best example of how integration and immigration are to be carried out, I understand that such outcomes can occur. But for our part, it is to point to those who are responsible. We believe that if you're a criminal, you're responsible for it yourself, while a maybe in Sweden and in SV's ranks will always point out that it's the big community that's failed when something goes wrong. I don't think we're going to get anything anymore by not pointing at those who are actually responsible, and that's basically the criminals themselves. What I pointed to in my post instead was that we have actually taken good steps to cut down on time before you settled in a municipality. When SV and the Workers' Party were in government, the question was to what extent the municipalities could be forced to accept – because they did not have the ability to take the right action, so that the municipalities wanted to receive. That's what this government has done, and maybe it's one of the best things we can do for good integration. My question to SV was then why SV did not take such a grip when they put in government – not how many proposals they have made after they put in government, because it becomes a little less interesting. It's a double standard that you mean one thing when you're in government, and something else when you're not sitting there. The fact that today's Workers' Party is actually out saying that they're going to start making a comprehensive and concrete immigration policy should tell most people that they don't have it. Because if they had, Jonas Gahr Støre wouldn't have had any need to go out in the VG today and say it's to be made. The wing we've seen from the Workers' Party in the last six months is probably the reason why we have to sit down and reconstruct the policy. But this should have happened before the election, not just after the election – it would have been most fair to the voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2494	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2500	Finally, the Progress Party has announced that it will establish a new integration policy, and obviously they will have no such thing today if you are to follow that reasoning. I'm not going to blame them for that – they have a bad one, but at least they have one. But to the representative Örmen Johnsen: taking away the right of instruction from UNE, a complaint body, would not stop a single asylum seeker from coming to Europe. It cannot be seriously said here that the right of instructions to an asylum complaint body is what should stop asylum seekers from coming to Europe or from coming to Norway. You can't be serious about that. I note that the Right no longer has its own policy on this, they have abdicated in asylum policy and do as the Progress Party decides. It also carries the inserts of the Right now imprinted off.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2507	The representative Kristin Örmen Johnsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2512	The representative of Lauvås hangs in this respect that the authorising authority to the Study of Foreign Affairs does not stop an asylum seeker in Turkey from coming to Norway. No, of course not – that’s not what it’s meant to be, and I don’t think Lauvås himself believes that. The representative was at the immigration agreement in Stortinget to introduce this right of instruction. The point of it is that the government can act quickly and send people who do not have the opportunity to stay legally to the country they came from. That was exactly what the right was intended to be used for, that is, to send people to a safe third country. It sends an important signal that you should not come to Norway. It's a tool you should have, in the Right's opinion, and we've been whole-hearted about it. So it has nothing to do with preventing people from travelling.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2517	The president had some nice words to us representatives and others during the Christmas break today that when two are going to be three, it can go out on both the night sleep and – I think he actually said – the romance. The representative Rigmor Aasrud referred to it in a previous post, and I record that there is some curiosity about the new romance that might arise in the New Year. I want to say that essentially it's a reasonableness more than that there's some great romance attached to it. We've cooperated a lot over four years, and I just have to record that it's done a lot of sense. We've received more refugees every year than the red-green thing to do. Today's government has been very good at integrating and also very good at transporting – as opposed to what the red-green government was – something left seems quite right. Those who don't want to stay here are going out. It makes a lot of sense here, and I think we don't have much more to profit from going in than being outside just in this area -- a lot of reason is taken out. Then we'll see. There's always something to negotiate about. What surprises me in today's debate is probably more the Labour Party's attempt to be both strict and a little more liberal. It's more about what I hear you're talking a lot about, recruiting the workforce, and you're going to solve the challenges we're facing in terms of well-being, by bringing in more and getting them to work. That's very good. I'm glad that the Workers' Party is more likely to start talking about it, employing Job, getting people to work quickly and integrating faster. I hope that there are new tones from the Workers' Party, and that it is possible to get support from the Storting in some things in this sensible sector. At least there will not be some form of coercion, as I experienced that SV was in when a State Secretary from the Workers' Party spoke out on happiness and piety about how strict the Labour Party had policies. I think it is far more honest that we have a Council of States that is actually in charge of the policy of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2524	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2529	It was the representative Ørmen Johnsen who really made me take the floor, because it sounds as if the only possibility the government has to influence how its underlying bodies are going to handle the case is by instructing. I want to remind the representative, Mr. Örmen Johnsen, that there is something called regulation. If the government needs to make changes to its policies, regulations are required. But then you also have to bear that there are some people who have some opinions about how that rule should be. You don't have a chance to do that when you're instructed, as the Council of State has done. So to the left: it's exciting to see – after we've seen and heard the Left today, which is so obvious in terms of reasonableness – whether it's a reasonable marriage, or whether it's a forced marriage. At least the representative has made clear to Engen-Helgheim what the liberalisation of asylum policy is. We've seen it these four years, and we're going to see it in the future, too, with the Left in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2536	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2541	This is a reply to the Workers' Party. It is not unknown that the Left was never to lift the reasonableness condition. It was the Workers' Party that gave the government a majority in favour of it. That we're going into government and we think we're going to cancel it, isn't necessarily an ambition we think it's possible to get fulfilled in a minority government just. It's a call to the Workers' Party that you're in on it, and you're turning around. There's an opportunity, and you can use Christmas to think about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2548	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2564	So now we're going to have budgetary adjustments in some of the areas that we've now discussed in the knowledge and the broad. Here it turns out that the government does not have the power to use the Appropriations for Job, which could give more women the opportunity to get out of work, nor do they have the power to spend the money allocated to housing and support for people who have been subjected to forced marriage or honor-related violence. I have asked the Council of State what is the reason why you have not been able to use up this last one, and got an answer today that I have to say I am quite baffling about. In 2016, a professional platform was created for how this offer was to be developed, and everyone has now heard that there is a great need for this. So the Council of State answers me that it's right that it is. It is also true that those who work on this have asked for more money. So it's not like there have been no applications for this money, it has been, but they have not received the money. Instead, they are now sent directly into the state register again. So the reason why this work has not been done is not the answer from the Council of State at all, so the question is: what is the reason why this important work has been put at risk, when you have money in the budget for people who may be in a life-threatening situation and need safe housing and safe follow-up offers – that you are left with a budget that cannot be used up? It is not good for the work to be done in the future that there has been so little interest in using the money both for Jobjeansen and for the national housing and support services for people who have been subjected to forced marriages and honour-related violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2575	It was a reduction as a result of a delay in work, not because it is no longer being worked to expand the offer, so it will be done next year. It's like sometimes things happen that make it take longer to implement than you think. I can assure you that this is a priority and that it will be worked on, but that it will be done next year. Finally, I wish everyone a really good Christmas and thank you for this year. I look forward very much to the continuation next year, with many good discussions and debates and pleasant association.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2582	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2598	This case also shows an effect on housing support, which we have discussed before today, where the government claims that they have improved the housing support scheme, while in this budget they show that the rules are now such that even fewer people receive housing support this year than what was initially calculated – and then we know that there are several tens of thousands who have lost. In addition to that, I have recorded that the budget agreement has continued this tightening. This is an effect of the rules, it's not that you've collected any money, but it's a brilliant – or a sad – example of why these rules are now too tight, that there's too few people getting housing support, and that those who get are getting too little of their high living costs covered. It would have been better if it had been the opposite, because then we would have had a stronger commitment to social measures so that people would be able to live safely in their homes even when they experience income cuts, as many of those who have small incomes have done. This is an example of why the housing aid scheme should be amended and strengthened. I hope that the majority will be there in the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2607	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2619	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2671	A total of 27 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–5 and 7–13, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 14, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 15 and 16, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 17, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 18-28, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide amended housing aid legislation to ensure that the housing aid is at the level and volume of the user equivalent to the level in 2009.’» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2706	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22–27, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the restoration of competence grants for sustainable housing and construction quality.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: «The government is asked to set requirements for competence in the local government sector in the areas of environment, biodiversity and climate.» Proposal No. 24 sounds: «The government is asked to provide a conversion of the growth grant to the municipalities concerned, without any features in the income of all municipalities.» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a conversion of the metropolitan grant in such a way that it appears as a mark-up to the municipalities concerned, without any features in the income of all municipalities.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to increase the co-financing by the State of the scheme of particularly resource-intensive services and to propose a separate scheme to apply to persons over 67 years of age.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure a digital e-election solution at the municipal and county elections in 2019 and to establish a permanent system of local and city planning on the basis of these experiences.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2751	There is a vote on proposal No. 28, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to evaluate whether the scheme is adequately funded by the State and, where appropriate, to return to the Storting with proposals for improvements’. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2768	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18–20, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals for the necessary strengthening of diffi to ensure that new environmental requirements for public acquisitions are implemented in practice.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to maintain the possibility of cash withdrawals from payment cards for asylum seekers.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Council requests that the Government present, as soon as possible and following consultations with the Sameting, a proposal for a budget model for the Sameting, where the general rule is that the funds be transferred over one budget line, combined with the submission each spring of a proposal setting out criteria and indications for the budget framework for the Sameting and Sami purposes in the same way as for the municipalities.’.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2797	There is a vote on proposal No. Seventeen from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals for a scheme to ensure that Norwegian municipalities can obtain more reasonable loans by guaranteeing the debt to the State.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2815	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive plan for common ICT solutions in the public sector across departments and levels of government during 2018.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2832	There is a vote on proposal No. 16, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the government to investigate and submit a proposal for its own state top-level funding scheme to municipalities with particularly high child protection expenditure.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2849	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with an overview of how the appropriations for the Cultural Walk have evolved and to propose a scheme in which the grant is excluded from the Municipal County Framework.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e2866	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5 and 7–13, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the State applies tendering criteria which ensure that Norwegian companies become more competitive.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to give priority to equal pay in the State sector in future pay settlements.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the work carried out in all State activities is subject to concrete requirements for the use of apprentices at least in accordance with the requirements of State Building and diffi’.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assume that the request to the municipalities for the residence of refugees shall not be based on the selection of municipalities by size, but on the results of integration into social life.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to change the eligibility criteria for Part A, so that even women receiving social assistance can become participants.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals for a permanent solution to ensure that the victims do not lose their right to or receive less housing support as a result of the default reform.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to maintain grants for the establishment and adaptation of housing as its own grant and not to propose its inclusion in the municipal framework.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose the restoration of the housing social competence grant that is now gradually integrated into the municipal framework, as its own grant under the Husbank and to withdraw it from the municipal framework.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the government to return to the Storting with an overview of how the development of appropriations to the volunteer centres has developed and to propose a scheme in which the grants are excluded from the framework grant.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government requests the reintroduction of compensation for small operating expenses through a similar basic grant to all municipalities at the level of the grant granted until 2016.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a sample to be set up to propose changes to the legislation on the taxation of works and uses which ensure greater non-discrimination and predictability of business across municipal borders. The committee shall examine in particular how the regulatory framework for the establishment of data centres can become clearer than today.’» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose to wind up the scheme of regional centre grants and to include assigned appropriations in the framework grant in future budgets.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e4567	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e4843	It's going to add up to AX. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e4857	It shall be counted against A II to IX and XI to XII.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e6795	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e7485	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e7497	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e7511	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e7530	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-18.ana.ud139e9445	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
