ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e47	The biggest meeting is legally set – hopefully the last big meeting of the period! The representatives Freddy de Ruiter and Ulf Leirstein, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The representative, Mr Andersen, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e62	On behalf of the representative of the Grandfather Audun Lysbakken and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on the profit-free operation of asylum recipients. And on behalf of Snorre Serigstad Valen, Audun Lysbakken and myself, I will put forward proposals for a comprehensive housing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e69	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e89	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e118	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 25 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Advance Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party, Center Party, Left, Socialist Left Party, Environment Party Green and Finance Minister 10 minutes each and all other members of the Government 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to four lines of reply from the main speakers and parliamentary leaders of the parties and up to six lines of response from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e131	This is the last major debate in this period. There have been eight different budgetary procedures in total, the last of which is in this round. Since 2013, there has been a lot of influence on the budgetary procedures of this major issue. It is enough to mention a marked fall in oil prices, we have had a refugee situation that has sometimes been exceptional, and it is also external conditions that have affected, for example. defence and security policy more than usual over a period of time. In this revised budget, we are in a situation where the arrows point upwards. Unemployment is on the decline – employment is declining. But as we also see from today's numbers, it's a daunting rise. This increase, this majority, has had a very active approach to budgetary policy to counteract increased unemployment. I want to say we've used the opportunities we've had to do it. The revised budget shows that we are now facing brighter times. It is also reflected in a lower use of oil money. We had a perspective debate a little while ago, which also showed that the space for action will be different from what we've been up to now. For the Christian People's Party, employment is one of the most important things we can do in this room. Having a job to do is meaningful for the individual and important for the social economy. For us, the situation has been important both for the young unemployed and for those who are going to work. That is why, through this period, we have consistently increased the apprenticeship grant. We also do that this time, with a further increase of NOK 1000 per contract. There's been a lot of talk about pensions. The government has proposed a tax haven for pensioners. We, the Christian People's Party, have, through the last two budgetary negotiations, ensured – in cooperation with the other three parties – that the disposable minimum pensioners have had a clear increase in their pension, a total of NOK 8 000. The last increase is 1 September. In the context of the revised budget, we also increase the pension for married and cohabiting persons who have the minimum pension. We thus ensure that we raise those groups that may have the worst living conditions in the country. Then we have again promised measures to combat child poverty. There was one of those things that the four parties agreed on, and that we have implemented the budget, including this revised budget. We're strengthening preparedness. We also strengthen the courts and the work for which we have had our own action plan, namely to combat violence against children. Further follow-up is provided in this revised budget. The scope of action that this government has had, and which is also managed by a majority, has in particular been aimed at strengthening research, education and infrastructure — and tax incentives that have a positive impact on value creation in the long term. That's the big picture of what the space for action is used for. It's important to underline, because it's been a proper use. I am very pleased with many of the results we have jointly obtained. I would like to have more time to develop all the good measures that RNB represents, also from the Christian People's Party. This does not allow the time in the first place, but I have to recommend the suspension and address our proposals – also in the case that follows this, but that has speaking time in common with this case. Then it's a loose proposal, no. 104, in the hall, which I promote on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. It's distributed, so I guess I don't have to refer to it. But what I have to refer to is some changes in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e152	Please, the representative must be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e157	Thank you for that. First, it applies to Cape. 950 Item 95. In the government's proposal, the name of the item has been changed to ‘Capital deposits’, cf. proposals attached to Renewable AS. The changes in the postal name have been captured in the Innst mail review. 401 S for 2016-2017, cf. page 186. In the decision list at Innst. However, 401 S remains under the heading «Capital deposits with Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkkompani AS», cf. page 377. The name should be ‘Capital deposits’. Then we go to -- this is going to be very technical, but I've received guidance from the president that it has to be done this way, so then I obey -- Cape. 2421 Item 51. In the government’s proposal, the name of the item has been changed to ‘Taps reserve, seed and co-investment fund’, cf. the proposal to establish a co-investment fund. The changes in the postal name have been captured in the heading of the post summary in the Innst. 401 S, cf. page 187. The representation of majority proposals in the Committee’s notes on page 187 of the table continues to use the name ‘Såkornfonds ICT industries, loss provision’. Also in the decision list at Innst. 401 S remains under the heading ‘Såkornfonds ICT industries, loss provision’, cf. page 384. The name should be ‘Tap provision, seed and co-investment fund’. The last correction is under Cape. 2421 Item 95. In the government's proposal, the name of the item has been changed to «Capital, seed and co-investment fund», see: the proposal to establish co-investment funds. The changes in the postal name have been captured in the heading of the post summary in the Innst. 401 S, cf. page 188. The representation of the majority of the proposals in the Committee's notes on page 188 of the table continues to use the name «Såkornfonds ICT industries, equity». Also in the decision list at Innst. 401 S remains under the heading «Såkornfonds ICT industries, equity», cf. page 384. The name should be «Capital, seed and co-investment fund». You don't understand it's that the name doesn't frighten anyone, always. Sometimes the name has to be corrected. The President is here to receive the corrections. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee, that is the last debate, for excellent cooperation – I kept saying as a Prime Minister said – in peace as in war, but we might well minimize it a little and say: Thank you for the cooperation, both in terms of contentious issues and when we have agreed. At least it's been constructive, anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e172	The correctness shall be correct. The representative Hans Olav Syversen took up suggestion No. 104 in Case No. 2 and proposals Nos. 1 to 4 of case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e181	There is a lot I would like to ask the representative of the Syversen. I know the representative Syversen as a warm, thoughtful and inclusive man who is very concerned about the weakest both in our society and internationally. He thus represents some of the most important values we have, such as close love, solidarity and equivalency. Now that we are here today, on the last day of this bigotry session, the representative Syversen can then share some thoughts with us about what feelings he has today – after the Christian People's Party has contributed to putting the Advance Party into government and, not least, helped to make up four state budgets that have taken Norway in the opposite direction in several of the areas where he and the Christian People's Party stand?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e188	When we see the results of that cooperation, we are very happy with many of them. For example, the representative of Berg-Hansen mentioned: exposure internationally. Yes, we have jointly been able to deliver 1 pst. of GDP to the world's poor. This has happened in cooperation with the Progress Party. I can also take another matter, which was a struggle, and which goes on those who are perhaps the most vulnerable. Under the previous government, we had a major problem with how to care for asylum-seekers. We got a solution to that, for the long-term asylum children, not with the previous government, but with the Progress Party in government. I'm not sure they agreed, but we did, and it was important for us – just to take two examples.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e195	Yesterday, the forces in the Homeland had to hand in their weapons and equipment, and the Salamonds department was shut down. It's part of the dearming of 2,000 men in the Sjöheimewertel, and the weakening of their preparedness along the coast. In the revised national budget, there is a discussion on Home Affairs. We in the Center Party have allocated more money to the Home Office and expressed opposition to the closure of the Maritime Protection Agency, because we believe it is an important part of our national preparedness. Is the Christian People's Party familiar with what is now happening, putting down the preparedness along the coast, putting down the Sjöheimewertel, and why has not the Christian People's Party been included in the comments of the Center Party and the Center Party's appropriations for a strengthening, not a reduction, of the Home Office?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e204	Home protection was an important part of the work related to the long-term plan, where there was also a certain distinction here in the Stortingen in the autumn. One of the things we had to do last fall was to strengthen the defence budget by 300 million. kr in the budget agreement to meet our objective. We stand for the fact that Homeland Protection is an important part of total defence. The fact that we are not in a position to comment on the revised budget is also due to the fact that we are now in front of a study that has just been presented and will be dealt with. I can assure the representative, Mr Schlagsvold Vedum, that Home Protection is high on our agenda, so that we will also have operational protection in the future, when this is to be further debated.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e211	The forces of maritime protection were dropped yesterday. Then my question is to the representative of the Syversen: Do the Sevens and the Christian People's Party think that it makes sense that the forces of the Sjöheimeverterung are shut down now, and that they are delivering equipment before they have taken a final position on the estate, and why does the Christian People's Party possibly allow this to happen – that the government is now running down the Homeland Protection along our coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e217	Now I think maybe it's going a little far to say that the Sjöheimewert was dropped yesterday. I think we should have our own debate on that. If the representative has such information, I would like to have it followed until we get further out on the day. It sounds a little special, as I hear the representative now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e222	Is the representative of the Syversen satisfied with the government's efforts to combat inequality and poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e227	I see that the government, and I think I also speak for the four parties in this room, is concerned about counteracting increased inequalities and increasing poverty. This is not just a question of taxes, as SV often does. One has to look at what we do in the budgetary context of actions for those who have the worst advice. The revised budget is a good example of actions that we are strengthening, but that are not reflected in e.g.: A GINI coefficient. When, for example, ensure that those who have the worst advice pay less in kindergarten rates now than before, and when we ensure that resources are provided for leisure activities and holidays, it is also to lift many who would otherwise not have had the opportunity to do so. I can confirm that this is something we are concerned about, and I know that the representative Serigstad Valen is also concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e234	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e239	This is the examination of the revised budget for 2017, but it is also the very last debate to be held. Now I'm not going to stay for too long at just that, but the backstop here makes it natural that the debate on the revised national budget is not just about the attitude as such, but also about what the growth period we now have behind us has meant for the Norwegian economy and the way forward. The very last budgetary crossroads of this collapse deserves to be put into such a context. On 21 June 2013 – exactly four years ago today, it's probably a coincidence – the last big deal had its final RNB debate. At the time, 340,000 new jobs were created during the government period, two thirds of them in the private sector. Growth was above average in the OECD in recent years, and we had the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. But there were also some disturbing signs, as the red-green representatives in that debate were concerned about. Although much more employed in Norway during the period, both the financial crisis and high labour migration made the employment rate lower than the peak in 2008. The entire Western world has suffered from low productivity growth following the financial crisis, including Norway. The analysis by the Right and Advance Party of it at the time was that this was a red-green betrayal. The red-greens have failed, said Jan Tore Sanner, who was a fiscal figure for the Right. At the same time, he stated that Norway had become a more oil dependent country. Erna Solberg asked for trust from the Norwegian people on that basis. She was going to be prime minister to spend money better, make tougher priorities and raise productivity in the Norwegian economy. So now it's June 21, 2017. In the meantime, we've been through an oil price drop two and a half years ago. Although the acute fall in both employment and growth was even more dramatic when the financial crisis hit us in 2008 and 2009, there is no doubt that this has been a real blow to the Norwegian economy, and to the South-West in particular, how many are still struggling. I fully acknowledge that this would have been challenging for any government. Now there is a single sign of lighting in the Norwegian economy. That's very good, and we're all happy about it. The parties have taken enormous responsibility through moderate settlement, and I believe it is in their place today to thank for that. It has given industry increased competitiveness just when we needed it most. The monetary policy regime has worked; nothing has been more important to meet the economic downturn than the weakened dollar price. Targeted measures for the South-West are effective. We would very much like to have more of it at an earlier stage to slow down the decline in activity, but what was coming works. Then the oil price has picked up something again, and the investment fall on the base decreases. The growth rates are slightly adjusted up, and although the growth is still likely to be very weak in the future, it is good. The availability is decreasing, fortunately, but in its last business cycle report, presented a few weeks ago, the Statistical Central Bureau writes that the main reason for this is that the workforce has decreased. People go out of the Nav queue, but to a small extent into work, they disappear out of the labour market. The proportion of employed in Norway is the lowest in over 20 years, the inequality in our society is increasing, and productivity growth has plummeted. Now it's almost non-existent. This happens even if the use of oil money over the period has almost doubled. The tax authorities have not had the effect the government suggested to us, and they have not been funded by bureaucracy and tougher priorities, as Erna Solberg said before the elections. The government has paid for them by taking away those who come after us. They're going to have a far tougher job of making the budgets go up than what Siv Jensen has had, when pension expenditure really comes up in 10-15 years. As late as the 2015 national budget was presented, we received projections showing that there was room for gradually phasing more oil money into the Norwegian economy until 2035. Now the Perspective message says it's over now, not in 2035. Of course, both oil prices and lower expected returns are very central in explaining this, and it is not something we politicians rule. But the one size we actually control, the withdrawal from the fund, has made the situation even more difficult. In four budgets, the government has spent about 760 billion. oil crowns and increased the annual input to the State budget by 83 billion. 2017 krones. It is more than in the previous twelve budgets, including the financial crisis budget in 2009. Now we have to move from record-high phase-in to sudden stoppage. And here we're really at a nucleus. For well, it's the case that the business cycle shines a little bit and the short-term prospects are better now than when we were standing here and had an RNB debate a year ago. But the long-term challenges for the Norwegian economy have been reinforced – not what is about business cycle, which will always swing, but what is more structural. One thing is that we can no longer rely on oil money consumption as a share of GDP to continue to increase, but the combination of falling employment and falling productivity growth over a long period of time is scary. That's how much we work, and how we work, that determines the value creation in this country. Everyone who reads the Perspective Communication sees that there are these two sizes that need to be raised if we are to be able to finance the welfare state in the future in combination with more efficient public sector operations. The Labour Party is now preparing to implement new major reforms. The digitisation of the public sector goes like a red thread throughout our entire new party programme. This is one of the ways we are going to renew and streamline the public sector, and especially in e-health. Then there has to be a stronger policy to get more people into the world of work. That is why we need to implement an activity reform for young people and a major reform of labour skills. Now the RNB is not the place for the major reforms, but when I'm talking about this anyway, it's because our RNB priorities are a focus on the priorities that will shape the budgets of a new Labour Party-led government. We propose to use the limited space of action primarily to invest in competence and qualification to get people to work. We have built Norway on a work-life model that delivers decent wages for all and small pay differentials. Wages and salaries may be the most important tool we have to distribute. But this model also imposes very high standards of competence. There must be some skills to participate, and they increase rapidly with technological development. We see that more and more people fall out of work or never come in. Lack of skills is the main cause, and we cannot accept that Norway is running a low wage trail, as we see some European countries now do. There are enormous differences between people, and I am absolutely convinced that this is not good for productivity. But we cannot borrow back and let those who do not qualify for the Norwegian salary level fall out completely. New growth for Norway and a sustainable welfare country requires a working life where more people are equipped to get to work, stand longer in work or combine work and social security. Today, access to help, action and money for living is too much related to a medical diagnosis. It sickens people, and we have to think again, make sure that there are also opportunities for those who need some drag help to be able to qualify, without necessarily being sick. Several of the later speakers from the Workers' Party will discuss what our competence package in the RNB is about, but a greater level of competence will require that both the parties and the State take a greater responsibility than before. So many will probably agree that competence is important, but a reform on the scale we are talking about here requires the ability to carry out enhanced tripartite cooperation, and not least money. It does not have the Right Party and the Advance Party. The action space will be narrowed in future, with the national budget for 2017 estimated 6 billion–7 billion. kr annually, of which 5 bn–6 bn will be. • follow-up to the National Transport Plan and the Long-term Defence Plan – important issues. In addition, fiscal policy should continue. Right suggests the same magnitude as in this period, and we add up the tax cuts in the Progress Party program, they amount to 50 billion. kr. The bill does not go up, and it will not be possible in the next period to camouflage it behind even higher growth in oil money. In the future, it's even more important to spend the big money properly. And there's a difference between thinking that we should build productive, resilient societies by keeping the differences down and investing widely in people – in people's competences and people's health – and betting that at the top they'll lift us all if they just get even more tax cuts. That's where the most important dividing line goes. I bring up the proposals No. 1-10, 12-15 and 102.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e269	The representative Marianne Marthinsen then brought up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e276	The representative of Marthinsen mentioned the proportion of employed and inequality several times in his post. Right is dedicated to preserving a society with little differences between people. We know that inequality arises for different reasons, and the small increase that has occurred is mainly due to immigration and adjustments to increased dividend taxes, which the parties have agreed on in the tax settlement. We know that the greatest inequality exists between those who are at work and those who are out of work. The Workers' Party is making choices to promise tax increases in the future. I have never heard from any company or company that tax increases are what are needed to increase the number of jobs – rather on the contrary. So my question to the representative Marthinsen is, how do she and the Workers' Party think that increased taxes should be the medicine to create more jobs? Then I am talking about sustainable jobs in the private sector, not public measures that are the means to keep the wheels running short-term.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e283	Thank you for the question. I fully agree with the representative Meling that some of the things that create the greatest differences in our society is that people are being pushed out of work. This is precisely why it is so worrying both that we have the lowest employment rate in 20 years and that jobs are scarcely created in the private sector under this government. We have to do something about that. Neither I nor other Workers' Party representatives have ever claimed that tax increases in themselves are growth-promoting, but they are not particularly anti-growth if they are properly designed, in line with the proposals made by the Workers' Party, which means that they meet the very greatest assets and the highest incomes. I am fully convinced that the most resilient and productive societies are being built by investing widely in people's competences and health and by building the will and ability to transform from below. Let's get this done and get it done, for example. this great commitment of competence on which the Workers' Party is going to vote, we must have fiscal space to do so, and it has... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e292	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e297	The representative, Mr Marthinsen, was clear that the debate must be about the whole period, and I agree with that. Many people say that it doesn't matter who controls the country. The Progress Party is at the barricades for a strict asylum and immigration policy. Thanks, among others, to: Our impact in the asylum agreement at Stortinget before Christmas 2015 has been decreasing the arrivals of asylum, and we have now reached the lowest asylum figures since 1997. In the 2017 Alternative Budget of the Workers' Party, the Workers' Party proposed to reduce the appropriations for the return of asylum seekers with refusal. If the institution of asylum is to have legitimacy, those who are not entitled to asylum must be returned. Why is this a low priority area for the Workers' Party? Why does the Workers' Party want more people without a legal stay to be in Norway any longer, and so send out a signal that it is okay to stay in Norway illegally?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e304	Well, there was a slight interpretation of the proposal. There's a reported minor need here. I must remind you of the history here: when the refugee crisis hit us, the government lost control of the situation in Storskog. That was the situation we were in. The majority of the population set up and were part of a settlement that helped us to get the situation under control. I also think it is particularly important that the Progress Party now takes the credit that the number of asylum seekers is lower, when everyone knows that the main explanation for this is that countries by country in Europe have closed their borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e312	I think it was meritorious of Marianne Marthinsen to be quite honest about the employment share and when that fall began. I'll give her credit for that, in relation to some other debates we've had on this, where there's been a lot of strange numbers. The representative of Marthinsen also mentioned the NTP and the lack of action rooms in the future. We had an interesting NTP debate a few days ago, where it appeared that the Workers' Party lacks coverage for its proposals in the NTP. After criticizing what we, the government and the cooperation parties, have put forward, to be too ambitious, you might be missing around 100 billion. kr, without any coverage. Where was Marianne Marthinsen when the transport fraction ran with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e321	Well, I can assure the representative Syversen that the representative Marthinsen was very much present when we discussed the national transport plan and our plan for containment in the group. I would say that it is little irresponsible to point to the possibility that we can speed up some projects if, among other things, we. control cost developments in this sector. We put in our arrangement an increased frame for the period of approx. 7 B.C.E. kr. This will mean that you have to raise a few hundred million dollars in the next budget. We have room for that, for example. Because we're going to choose a different tax regime from what the current government is doing. But I want to add that the challenge for this sector in the years ahead is going to be to get control of cost developments. Now, when the government decides to push at intercity, it's not because you cut the appropriations, but because the costs are out of control. It has not been possible to make the project feasible within the framework foreseen by the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e330	In the setting, the Labour Party criticises the multiple to move only 0.3 per million from the expenditure page of the State budget. Irgo would think that the arrangement for the Workers' Party would be something completely different, but it isn't. The working party moves at an additional 0,2 per mille and has no realistic containment. Among other things, they cut the costs of the municipal merger, for which the party itself has voted. And cut the red tape at 0.8 pst. As the majority do, the Labour Party criticized the north and down in the fall. But not only does the Workers' Party just continue to cut, they're adding an additional, unspecified cut of 150 million. kr in the consultancy. As Marianne Marthinsen knows well, the consultancy is paid over the operational posts of the departments – the same posts the Labour Party was opposed to reducing in November, but as they now reduce more than the majority set up. How does Marthinsen explain this reversal and the slightly unprofessional budgeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e339	Thank you very much for your question. Firstly, we are not opposed to improving the efficiency of the public sector, as the representative Terje Breivik is now trying to present it as. During this period, we have voted in favour of the red tape, but we have been sceptical about the arrangement of them – that you have flat cheese needs such as. hospital operations are directly affected by operating budgets in hospitals. We have voted against that part. We've put in a government consulting cut of 200 million. kr. We think that is completely realistic. We just got a report from the National Audit Office that goes through the state consultancy. It's estimated to be up to 13 billion. kr. Only the implementation of the rail reform has the Stortinget budgeted to cost us 500 million. kr in increased red tape costs for the current year. Of that money, we know that a high proportion is going to use consultants. One of the Riksrevision's findings was that it is too little to be able to use the knowledge that the consultants take with them to build knowledge in their own organisation. We'll do something about that, and it's a visualization of... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e348	One minute is fast. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e355	As others have pointed out, this is not just a debate on the revised national budget for 2017. There is also a look back at an overview of financial policy in the four-year period that is now behind us. At this crossroads, there is evidence to suggest that the government, along with the majority of the population, has succeeded in this policy, in an economic situation that has been very demanding for much of the period. The summer oil price shock almost three years ago showed us that oil dependence was high, which it had warned against from the then opposition, in the previous period. The need for change and productivity growth requires a much higher rate than expected, and remained and is very demanding. At the top of it all we got an almost unmanageable influx of refugees, and the world around us was also troubled very many places. Now we see a light in the economy. There is no reason to attach the star to the top of the Christmas tree for the time being, but there is a frantic rise, as many report. Norway’s Bank network reports optimism, Norwegian Industry is optimistic, the NHO is optimistic, and optimism itself can be important. From the IMF and the OECD we get good insights into the way we've dealt with the situation we've been in. Unemployment is falling, growth is increasing, and employment is expected to increase for the first time in a very long time after the financial crisis. There is no doubt that budgetary policy has been a good contribution to reverse this trend. It has helped to increase demand for goods and services in the mainland economy, and it has been necessary since the fall in oil prices. In addition, a weak krone has been good for export companies, while cost cuts and new levels of cost in the petroleum industry also give this industry new hope and new investments even if the oil price would be somewhat around the current level. At the same time, we see a growth in our trading partners in Europe which means that their purchasing power and needs will once again increase in both raw materials and other imports from Norway. The important thing now is not to overheat the economy, so interest and exchange rates are under pressure. This is the way in which others, too, have been involved, and on which there is agreement, that the basis for a continued high level of well-being in Norway is the creation of more jobs that strengthen the foundations of the welfare society. I believe that the revised budget continues the course that we have been pursuing a powerful and relatively expansionary fiscal policy. The strong stimulus of the Norwegian economy has also had broad professional support. The Cappelen Committee of the Parties concluded last autumn that fiscal policy has dampened the decline in the economy. When the budget was presented last autumn, there was also a close-up group of bank managers and elsewhere agreed that the dosage for 2017 was correct, given the situation we had with the biggest setback in the Norwegian economy since the banking crisis in the 1990s. The use of oil money has not been higher than on average below 3 pst. over the last four years. I would also like to remind you that it is this government that has now proposed that the use should be 3 pst, which was on the contrary rejected by the previous government after the idea had lived only a few hours. We are also hearing today about the excessive expansion of the government's policies and the high use of oil money. That's a discussion we'd like to take. The practice has been necessary, and the Workers' Party's criticism is actually falling on the ground. It is a fact that the Labour Party has spent about the same amount of oil money in these years, in other words, there has been a relatively broad agreement on the level of use. What's important is what you spend the money for. We have given priority to knowledge, school, education and transport projects and with this have laid the basis for creating new jobs. There is reason to remember — as often as one can — from this pulpit that, without creating new private jobs, the welfare community is confused. It's not just about entrepreneurs, inventors and start-up companies. In practice, migration also means changes and extensions in existing businesses. Those who live in it often say that this is forgotten. When traveling around the country on company visits, which we are about to do all of us soon when we have avoided all the appropriations and legislative decisions, we should remember to ask those who own the businesses, what is important for them to invest. Then they will probably answer the following: more competence and better educated youth, who can fill challenging jobs in a rapidly changing society — as the majority of people have delivered. They will demand, as always, more roads, better roads, more and better railways that can link housing and labour markets and get the goods out of the country and quickly to the buyers – as the bulk of the population has delivered. Then some of those we meet would say that it is unwise to tax operating resources and values that make up the working capital, that it is cutting off the branch you are sitting on, and that the money should be used for investments in existing companies. But you don't want to hear it from everyone. A good number of enterprises, many larger — more and more — are owned by non-residents, who do not pay any tax on their ownership of the enterprises. There it is safe to travel both for the Workers' Party and for other parties. Then you will not hear about this extra tax on the investment of the capital that would create the new jobs, which would once again ensure that someone without a job got a job and could take care of himself and his family. A better contribution to the inequality, which we also often discuss, than establishing new jobs and getting more people to work does not exist. But then we must first recognise that new jobs in the private sector cannot be adopted in this Chamber. We can only adopt good framework conditions, that is. continue with what we've done in this period. I think that's some reason why unemployment is falling, and that we also see more jobs being created, even though the pace, in the situation we've been in, has not been high enough – but it's due to a lot of other things. Government parties and cooperative parties are united in this with taxes, to reduce the tax on working capital. It's no longer for the richest, it's more for those who actually don't have a job. Let me spend some time finally looking back. I would like to thank both the committee leader, Hans Olav Syversen, Left Terje Breivik and the Progress Party Hans Andreas Limi for their very constructive cooperation during this period. We have provided eight budgets, eight budget agreements, and it has given us an overall direction in the policy of our four parties that have brought us through the particularly oil price shock, which continues to have ring-fenced effects in the Norwegian economy. We have done so through budgets that have not only facilitated growth but also contributed to increased security in everyday life. We have a community economy that was predicted below and at home in the election campaign four years ago, but which has always been better and better, and which has made it not a pleasure, so at least relatively satisfactory, to listen to KS when they are at hearings in the financial committee. It has contributed to a massive investment in transport, where budgets have increased by 50 pst. during the period, crowned with an ambitious national transport plan for the further growth. It has contributed to a significant commitment to a modern defence of the new threat picture we are seeing, and a police reform with shorter response time rather than more office time some places, which also provides security in everyday life. Perhaps, first of all, healthcare is a good illustration, where there are now shorter waiting times, fewer in health queues and, most importantly, the patient has become the centre. I think it is well illustrated through the package sequences for the treatment of cancer, intoxication and mental illness. This is a good example of the fact that it is the individual that has been central to the government – but not just to the government, also to the majority who have made not only budgetary comparisons but also contributed to the budgets. These four parties have been able to gather in very many cases of putting the individual in the focus of their attention and of their affairs, and it has made us come through both crime and fire in a good way during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e374	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e379	The Prime Minister started the election campaign a week ago by claiming that the Right has the solutions in the fight against inequality. Firstly, it is a recognition from the Prime Minister that inequality is an increasing problem in Norway. Secondly, I can't help thinking that better ideas and new solutions were the slogan of the previous election campaign. So why hasn't she done anything about this before? Tax rates for the richest and an increasing proportion of young people who are not at work give rise to greater inequality — not less. It's a wild policy from today's government. Why should people believe that the Right will now pursue a completely different policy than they have been to date?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e386	We have led, and will lead, a policy to create more jobs. You can't measure the inequality through tax statistics. Giving people a job, which I was just about to do, is the biggest contribution you can make to eliminate the inequalities, to get something to live with and to create your own life. Nor is it that inequality can only be interpreted by differences in income, wealth, tax levels. They also ask what to do in different areas. See what this government has done with regard to child poverty, which the representative Syversen was in. See what we've done in the ru area, in the psychiatry -- all this lifting people up in a lot of areas. I find it troubling to hear that the Workers' Party when they talk about inequality is concerned with tax statistics and not what you do for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e397	Yesterday we could read on NRK's website that the Wolf camp had to deliver its equipment, and that we put down the action force Salamonde in the Sjöheimevertet. My question to the Right is, are they satisfied with the degradation of the Homeland Protection we are now seeing around the country? Do they think that it is a wise priority that the protection of the marine environment is now being laid down? Commander Svein Jacobsen called it a total error priority to remove that capacity with the coast that we have. Does Svein Flätten think that it is a right priority to build up Sjöheimeverten and that yesterday the equipment for the Western intervention force had to be delivered?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e402	I have not read the details of the delivery of equipment in the Sjöheimevertet, but I have been reminded of it earlier in this debate by the representative of the Schlagsvold Vedum. I have to say that in terms of our defence, which I was also involved in my main post, we have prioritised security and security in a very troubled world through the long-term plan of defence, by financing it. It goes in a lot of areas, and I totally support what the government is doing in this area, because I see that it gives me and our people total security, which is important to me. Violence Vedum tears out a small part, which he very often does in his political rhetoric, painting up a large picture, and then he loses the complete overview of what is the whole of the policy – in this case the security policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e412	For us, readiness is not a small part – it is a large part. Yesterday we had a debate in Stortingen about just object protection. We believe that Home Security is an important part of our preparedness, and we believe it is important to have a certain volume on Home Security. Then we've always been critical of and strongly opposed to putting down the Sjöheimewert, because we have a lot of coast in Norway, and we think it's wise to have an extra preparedness there. So my question to the Fleet is: Does the Right honestly think that it's wise to build down the Maritime Protection Agency, to put it down, and that's what's now happening, or should the Right have seen that it was a wrong priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e419	Now, the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, confirms exactly what I said in my first answer. He says yes, they are concerned about preparedness. No, Battle violence Vedum is occupied by a small sector, which can be popularised and sold out at any time. Ready for me is the total, that's how we're going to relate to the world around us, to our total defense. How are we going to finance it? How are we going to modernise it? How are we going to follow up on technology? Battle violence Vedum wants to lower that debate down to individual areas, such as Maritime Protection. You can subtract other things from it. I do not want to go into that debate, but I want to go into an overall debate on our defence. I see that Battle violence Vedum does not want.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e426	Few times Svein Flötten has taken the word to a line without being able to measure inequality in tax statistics. I think the representative Fleet has said that at least ten times during the period. To any conceivable question of inequality or poverty, the representative fleet answers that one cannot measure inequality in tax statistics. I don't remember him ever being asked about tax statistics, but he answers it anyway. I just wanted to ask about it, because when we're talking about inequality in the audience, we're talking about the established ways you agree within science and politics to measure income inequality. It's something quite different than tax. There are a lot of very good examples that the government's policy is misplaced in tax statistics alone, but that's not what we're talking about. We're talking about measuring inequality. So I ask the representative, Fleet, as I often ask Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen: does the representative agree that the differences in Norway are increasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e433	Yes, please, they're increasing a little bit. Gini co-efficient measurements, for example, show that we are among the world's most diverse countries. This is what the representative, Serigstad Valen, knows, but he's basically using tax statistics, which I always mention – that's absolutely right. I have said many more than ten times in this hall that it is wrong to use it! The right thing is to create more jobs. This is not done by compiling income statistics and wealth statistics — looking at what the money is spent on. If you can help one, two, or three out of the inequality by having an income, there's a lot, a lot more than standing here and saying that we have to tax more, because then we get a greater similarity by shrinking the statistics together. But there'll be absolutely no jobs of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e442	Then the representative fleet said it again!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e447	Let me start a little untraditional and not just boast of the revised national budget and what we – the four cooperation parties – have done in four years. After a pleasant conclusion to the financial committee yesterday afternoon and evening – of course also with the opposition – I tried to think through what the revised national budget really means to people most and to businesses, those who live out there in reality, who have been concerned, and who are not concerned about political rhetoric, but reality. Reviewed, some corrections and new initiatives have been revised, but mainly a confirmation that the budget adopted last autumn had a proper mechanism and ambition to strengthen the Norwegian economy. The main efforts in infrastructure, research, education and tax relief are determined, the strengthening of care for the elderly in the case of grants to new nursing homes are reinforced, pensioners receive an increase in the minimum deduction, which compensates for negative income development as a result of under-regulation, capital access for start-up enterprises is improved through the investment tax deduction scheme, it becomes more attractive to save on own pensions for both private and self-employed workers, and police districts receive more money while financing new police helicopters. Over four years, we have fulfilled the commitments on what should be given priority, despite the fact that these four years have been more challenging than Norway may have experienced in 30 years. The oil price fell like a rock in the summer of 2014. There were many who warned against oil dependence in the Norwegian economy long before that time, but everything was produced as a bottom-solid, for the Norwegian model was infallible. Then came the wave of migration in the autumn of 2015, and the need for increased appropriations and a more realistic immigration policy immediately arrived. We've managed both of these shocks for the Norwegian economy, and now we see the results. Despite accusations about too little and too much, too early and too late, the policy has worked, and the dosage has been correct. It is nice to note that the government parties together with the Christian People's Party and the Left have agreed on a budgetary settlement that strengthens the main profile of the government's draft revised budget. Better health pay compensation for self-employed workers, more places of study, increased minimum pension for married and cohabiting persons, strengthening police capacity and competence for investigation into issues related to violence and child abuse, increasing apprenticeship grants and more money for courts, and enhancing security and preparedness – all are important and clear priorities. That there will also be some money for good local purposes is part of a budget settlement in Stortinget. I note that the Workers' Party in its comments on the revision takes a look back at the four years they have been out of government offices, and of course they have full opportunity to do so. But the Progress Party would like to contribute to that history. All key indicators now show a strong rise in the Norwegian economy in 2017. The Norwegian economy is showing stronger growth in the first half of this year, and the forecasts from the Statistical Central Bureau and other forecasting environments indicate a clear cyclical upturn in the future from 2017 to 2020. The last of the SSB's GDP-Fastlands-Norway figures for the 1st quarter show a stronger growth than expected, and the SSB estimates that GDP-Fastlands-Norway growth is around 1.9 pst. this year and will rise to 2.4 pst. in 2019. According to Norway’s Bank’s latest report from its regional network of enterprises, the growth of production in Norwegian enterprises is better than expected, and today’s growth rate is the strongest since 2013. In addition, the report shows that investments in Norwegian business in 2017 are expected to increase to the highest level since 2013, when the level of investments in the mainland industry was the lowest in 40 years. We have a decline in registered unemployment six months in a row. There's a drop in the unemployment rate in all 19 counties. The number of registered total unemployed in May 2017 is the lowest recorded in a single month of almost four years, all since October 2013. In the last year there has been a decline in unemployment in all 19 counties. In addition, Nav has provided a forecast of a further decline in the year and next year, and the number of redundancies and lay-offs is halved so far this year compared to the same period last year. Then it's pointed out that the employment rate has fallen, but it's now stabilized, and we see that there's a cautious increase. It actually fell more under the red-green, and the fall is related to the oil crisis, more old-age pensioners and a strong increase in the proportion of immigrants. With the growth of the economy, especially in the first quarter of this year, there is reason for cautious optimism that the employment rate will also increase, because the economic cycle affects it. Several age pensioners, several students and several non-Western immigrants have contributed to reducing employment. The number of newly established enterprises has increased by nearly 9000 from 2013 to 2016 and there is a new record despite the oil crisis. During the years 2014–2016, there were 6 000 more start-ups than decommissioned enterprises, while 1 800 more closed than newly established enterprises in the previous period. Nevertheless, there is reason to stress that 85-90 pst. new jobs are created in existing enterprises through efficiency improvement, innovation and budding. We experience good results in key industries such as farming and tourism, and also increased optimism in Norway’s main industry, the oil industry. Last year salmon was sold from Norwegian farms to a value of 60 billion. kr. That's an increase of 35 pst. The tourist industry has good results, and there is new optimism in the oil industry. Although investments are stabilising at a lower level than before the fall in oil prices, the industry has also been reduced and cost control has been exercised. The local economy is record strong. Especially last year and in part 2015 it has been extremely good results for the municipalities. The average growth rate in the free income of the municipal sector per capita has increased six times over the period 2013–2016 compared to the previous period. Municipality-Norway had a profit, or net operating profit, of a total of 4 pst. in 2016. It's the highest level in the 2000s. At the same time, the local authorities' disposal fund increased by 8 billion. kr in one year. So there's a larger one-year increase than it was in the entire previous four-year period. And then we see a positive trend in tax revenue so far in 2017, where we have an increase compared to 2016. Moreover, the property tax, which is Norway’s most unpopular tax, and of course should be abolished, is only 2.9 pst. of the income of municipalities. We have a record drop in CO2 emissions from road traffic in the last year, and this is because we have changed the car charges, changed the one-off charge, and we have reduced the charges on environmentally friendly, safe, intermediate-class cars. Now we're doing the same thing with the motorbike fee. The number of full-time farmers is also increasing under this government. Under eight years of red-green, the number of full-time farmers almost halved. This means that in the eight years that the Central Party was responsible for the Ministry of Agriculture, there were more than 4,000 full-time farmers, and now it is increasing with the Progress Party in the same position. In addition, full-time farmers have also grown more in entrepreneurial income in just two years with this government than in all eight years with the red-green and the centre. The list of good results is not exhaustive, but I'll stop there. Then it just remains – before we can really fire each other up – to say thank you for four good and exciting years. Thank you for cooperation, thank you for insightful debates, and I had almost said a really good summer! But there might be more opportunities to say that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e487	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e492	This is, as the representative himself said, a test of these four years, and after the presentation of the Perspective Notice, representatives of the Progress Party have traveled the country and the beach around with a graph to show that the differences in Norway are not as large or growing as in the United States. The United States of America in the 1970s was moving towards smaller differences. Then came the right side, with tax cuts to the richest and trickle-down and weakening the trade union's role in society – actually exactly the course that the Progress Party has now set out for Norway. The question is: is Limi happy to represent a government that has contributed to increasing differences and put us on the same dangerous course that the United States set out at one time in the 1970s?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e501	The representative Limi is very pleased to note that the claim from Wickholm is incorrect. There is a need to look at the actual development of wealth in Norway. You can go back ten years and see that most of the groups have had a significant increase in real income, and that also applies to the poor. We see that there are fewer and fewer people below the poverty line. What matters to everyone in Norway is having the same opportunities, being guaranteed a kindergarten when you need it, being guaranteed equal rights to education and having the opportunity to have a job and income. Then we also have to facilitate that we have activity in the economy and that we contribute to the creation of value in the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e508	I was a little inspired to take a line when the representative Limi spent so much time on the farmers, because it's not that often I've heard before. Limi boasted that the number of full-time farmers is now higher than when the Senter party was put in the government offices. I thought, does this reflect anything about the effect of sitting in government? So my question is basically, that's what the representative Limi put on, for example. agricultural policy, is it a symptom that it has done something about the Progress Party to sit for four years in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e515	It is not unnatural that sitting in the government and in the position has a certain influence on a party's politics. I think that also applies to the Progress Party. At the same time, I would like to stress that we have always been very concerned about the farmers and food production. What we have focused on is that the farmer is a self-employed person. The farmer must be allowed to develop his values so that it is possible to live by being a farmer in Norway. And we see that we've done that. We have a positive development. There are more and more full-time farmers, and the entrepreneurial income of farmers is rising. It is very positive because we have a lot of quality in Norwegian food production that we are going to take care of, and it is important that the Norwegian consumer is also allowed to participate in it. So we have a positive approach to agricultural policy, but we are also concerned that it should be profitable for those who produce food in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e523	The representative, Mr. Limi, was busy in his speech that one should not talk about political rhetoric but about realities, and that is what I intend to do, because after four state budgets, four revised government budgets and four years of government Progress Party, the reality is that never before, in four years, people and businesses in Norway have paid more in tolls, never before, in four years, has a government come to the Grand Government and suggested more in tolls than has happened in a period of time with the Minister of Finance and Minister of Transport from the Progress Party. So in my own county, Rogaland, the government has proposed tolls of almost $100,000 per rogalending in these four years. Then is my question to the representative Limi: has a fulfilled pledge that there should be «free» on the toll sign?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e530	Let me add in the long line from Pollestad: Never before have more roads been built in Norway. And that's what we promised in the 2013 election campaign. That's what we went to elections on. We wanted to significantly strengthen the infrastructure and increase investment towards road and rail. And during this period, the budget for transport has increased by 50 pst. There is more road construction and, unfortunately, there is also more toll, but the state share of road investment is increasing. And in the national transport plan that was dealt with two days ago, there is actually a stake from the four cooperation parties of well over 1000 billion. New infrastructure in Norway over the next 12 years. Yes, there are some tolls in that bet, but tolls are falling, and the option from the opposition is to significantly increase tolls. We just have to admit, we're against tolls. It's a majority of the Stortinget who's for tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e537	In his reply to the representative, Wickholm, the representative, Limi, said that there is fewer living in poverty now than ten years ago. However, according to the SSB report Economics and Living Conditions for different low income groups in 2016, both the proportion and the number living on persistent low income in Norway are increasing. «Standing up numbers have low incomes for at least three years» is the heading, where we can read the following: ‘From 2006 to 2011, the trend was a falling low-income share. In the last years, however, the proportion of persistent low income has increased again.» That's the opposite of what Limi just said. I have often wondered what it was like to discuss climate in the 1980s when you had to argue with people who wouldn't admit that climate change was a problem. It's a little bit like discussing inequality with the Right Party and the Advance Party. Whatever you put on the table of facts, you hang yourself in little detail and say that no, that's not true. Is it the SSB or Hans Andreas Limi who is right in how many live on persistent low income in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e549	I also deal with what is publicly available statistics, and what we see from the statistics is that there have been increasing income differences in Norway. At the same time, looking back and comparing with the starting point ten years ago has been a significant increase in wealth for all groups and all people in Norway. But there's someone who's got a little bit more than others. The fact that there are differences in income is not something that has been reinforced during this government; it was also the case in the preceding period, at least at the end of the period. So we know that this image is very complex. Unfortunately, we have some immigrant groups that are going to be hanging after. Very often, they have a low level of participation in the labour market and, unfortunately, those in the labour market quickly fall out again. There's something that there's reason to take seriously and focus on, and I also think that this government and the Progress Party are doing at any time, because we need more people who are actively participating in the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e558	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e563	This has been a big period in which we have really seen the dividing lines in Norwegian politics, but also the strength of the Norwegian Stortinget, and that we gather when it is the most demanding. Differences have been evident in the various government centralisation reforms. Because there has been one common denominator in almost all the government proposals, and it has been magnificence, while we have believed in proximity. We've seen it in Nav, we've seen it with taxes, we've seen it with the police, where it's called the near-police reform, but what you've experienced is that it's become a remote police reform. There is great disquiet in the Joint Police Association, where the government's own directorate lamented the use of the word närpoliti, and said that their feedback has been that it has become a remote police reform. We've seen it in Homeland, where it's now called a bet – but equipment is delivered, like yesterday in Wolf's camp, where the intervention force Salamander was put down – to the goal of getting a strength of 35,000 men instead of 45,000 men. You strengthen your presence, you strengthen your centralization. We have had a regional reform that was described as one of the four parties that wanted it, that we have got a solution no parties want. It was the description from one of the four parties that voted for this reform, where you have a region from Halden in the south to Hardangervidda in Buskerud. It's a completely dysfunctional region, but it's been given, and it was described as a solution no parties want. It was called a local democracy reform, the community reform. It ended with coercive mergers and the use of participatives, and finally also with individual representatives resigning because they followed their own convictions in the matter, that they were against coercion and for volunteering. So the line has been ready. It's been magnificence and centralization, they've called things near-police, it's become remote police, they've called things local democracy, it's become coercive reform. The positive is like what we saw in the autumn of 2015. When it really was a crisis, it became a national settlement on immigration and integration policy, which we in the Central Party believe was crucial, because the Progress Party and the Left blocked each other, and thus it was important that the Storting took responsibility with the government to resolve the situation and gain control. We did it. Then we've had oil price falls in this period. The IMF clearly described it earlier in ours, that weaker crowns and reduced wage increases have been the main act that has enabled us to stabilise the situation in the way we have done. What is it to say about that? Yes, point one: we have our own currency. Who has opposed Norway's having its own currency in recent years? Indeed, the Right Party and Prime Minister Erna Solberg have been a clear spokeswoman against Norway having their own currency and for us to adopt the euro. The right has also confirmed this period by the foreign policy spokesman. But thanks and price have not been passed on to the Right for that. Point two: the Norwegian model, reduced wage growth, that we have a tripartite cooperation where we have a responsible trade union movement. Who is it that has been against the Norwegian model? Well, Finance Minister Siv Jensen, who said when she was an opposition politician in the spring of 2013: The Norwegian model stands in the way of common sense. Now the Norwegian model has saved large parts of the Norwegian economy. What's the third point? Well, we've had the opportunity to pursue an expansive fiscal policy because we've had the wisdom of managing oil money over time and have a good and well-functioning rule of action that has given flexibility. Minister of Finance Siv Jensen said at his meeting in March 2013: then the model stands in the way of reason. The model is in the way of reason. There has just been a responsible use of oil money over time that has given us action, and Finance Minister Siv Jensen instead of softening the rule of action tightened it up. So there are two quite different realities in the opposition and the position. Then there is another matter on which there has been a lot of debate in ours that is creating a lot of unrest, which has now also made more proposals on the table today. It's about taking the locals seriously, and it's the so-called wolf case. I note that Mr Gunnar Gundersen's right-wing representative has now tabled two proposals, proposal No. 115 and proposal No 116, here in the hall. We in the Central Party are going to support the two proposals, because it is a follow-up to Storting's will in the big deal last year, and it has been a main problem that we have had a government that has not been able and did not want to follow up the Storting's policy, and I hope that the Right's own representatives also support Gunnar Gundersen's proposal and support the proposal of the Central Party to do that when there is a wolf coming into a sheep flock, it will immediately become disbanded, not that you should wait until all suffering takes hold. I'm dealing with the various proposals of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e586	The representative, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, has taken up the proposals he referred to, in both case 2 and case 3. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e593	Partisan Trygve Battle violence Vedum wrote in a chronicle this year: ‘To sum up the blue government in one word, it must be ‘centralisation’.’ The central party has promised the voters to pursue a policy of reversal if the central party comes into government. When Battle Violence Vedum was put in the red-green government, it was a fact that several gardeners were laid down. The operational size of the agricultural area which disappeared during the eight red-green years was nearly 500,000 deches. There were fewer small puddles. There were more people in the largest cities, and fewer government jobs were moved out of Oslo. How does Schlagsvold Vedum explain this imbalance between his birthright and what he can actually refer to from the government in 2005–2013? Does this not show that the central party's policy is primarily rhetorical and empty words?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e605	These are tough policy priorities all the time, and there have been completely different priorities for the Right and the Centre throughout this period. When there have been discussions about where to locate services, we have been clear all along that we want services to be close to people. There have been discussions about the police, which have caused a lot of concern in the representative's own home state of Telemark, where we thought it was wise to have it close to the different local environments. There's been a discussion about Homeland. We believe that it is wise to have a certain volume of Homeland Protection, not the reduction that today's government has set up, and that is going to go beyond the so-called area structure. So there's a completely different view, and we think it's right to prioritize resources so that we see the whole country, and where we believe in the whole of Norway. As far as the last point is concerned — the debate on regional reform: we do not think it is wise for Telemark to become part of Westfold. We think it's wise that Telemark evolves further as a separate state, and if we get the power, we're going to make sure that Telemark gets that opportunity if they want to. I hope that the representative Sundbø Abrahamsen when it comes to the play, is more concerned about listening to his own people than to sound his own partisan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e614	The Battle of Vedum and the Center Party have now become very concerned with Homeland Protection, and I note that in that area too, there is quite a long way between life and learning in the politics of the Center Party. In the eight years of the Central Party took part in government, the Home Guard got 300 million. kr less. The command structure of the marine protection system was laid down. Two HV districts were closed down. In 2009, there were no exercises in the area structure and the effort forces were reduced from 5000 to 3000 people. At the same time, there was a general underfinancing of the defence. Then I would like to ask Battle Force Vedum: Can he confirm that this information is correct, and what is the reason why the Center Party is now so concerned about presenting its time in government as a time when there was a significant reinforcement to both the Defence and the Home Office?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e619	The centre party is very concerned with the country's preparedness, and we think it is wise to use resources to build up the Homeland Protection and not build down. We think it is wise that Norway, as an independent country, should have different capacities in the different sectors of defence. That is why we disagree so much with the Progress Party and the Right now. You build capacities, as you see in the Maritime Protection Agency, and that's what happens now. It's not about building up, it's about building down. The equipment for the intervention force Salamonde in the West was delivered yesterday – it was delivered yesterday. You have to take away 2,000 soldiers with the capacity that it gives. We think it's very unwise, and I think one of the reasons why, for example. The former head of the Heimevertet General Broholt has joined the Center Party, is that he sees that we've talked about it, we've been clear about it, and we've put extra money into our alternative budgets for it. There is also extra money in our alternative budget – in the revised national budget – to the Home Security and Maritime Protection. Because we think it's wise and not unwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e627	The centre party and the Christian People's Party agreed not to shut down the Sjöheimewert when we dealt with it before Christmas. But it is a fact that on the watch of the Center Party, as it is so well called – in government, it was actually a reduction of the Defence. And not just that: there was a bigger problem, it was a beauty painting, you let it operate capacities that you couldn't actually operate when it came to the problem. Where the present government deserves praise for having the realities on the table. The EEA Agreement is an important agreement for the Norwegian economy, and we know the views of the Central Party on that agreement. I'm sure Battle Violence Vedum reads the nation. There we saw yesterday that the support for the EEA Agreement is very high and increasing. What does the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, think is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e634	What we have been involved in defence policy is: 1. strengthen preparedness 2. Convert Norway from a mobilization defense to an intervention defense and arm the defense for the future We believe it is very important what we also do in our revised national budget, where we prioritise more resources for defence, not less. We think it is unwise to reduce capacity when it was clear last night in Stortinget that there were challenges in securing the various features that the country should secure. With regard to the EU and the EEA, I am very pleased that Norway did not become an EU member. We believe it is important that we have good agreements with the EU, but our view of the EEA is that it gives too much power from the Storting to bodies that we cannot hold accountable for elections – precisely the bureaucracy in Brussels. So we think you have a lot of space for action if you're willing to use it, like that. when I myself was the Council of State and improved customs protection and secured the interests of the Norwegian food industry and Norwegian food production, which was also one of the reasons why some industry has been built up instead of being built down.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e652	The center part rarely talks about what it wants. In its alternative RN, the Senterpartiet e.g. fresh in the case of bureaucrats. This is where large-scale, fast-moving and crazy jobs are to be lost: the County Administration, the Health Directorate, the Police Directorate and the Environment Directorate. The only peace is the Ministry of Agriculture and the Directorate of Agriculture. In sum, it has to be cut about 0.5 billion. six-monthly kr. If this option is closed, employees will have to be told above a low shoe. Most have a period of notice of at least three months. In addition, we know that there are special rules in the country when it comes to job protection and pay. In order to get the math to go up, the sum of about 3,500 must be added to the department and the directorate. There was an added cost of NOK 70000 per month. How can the Central Party defend saying no more than 3 500 people per night than that the Centre Party would rather use payroll funds on state roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e659	First of all, it's interesting if you start looking at the numbers. When the Center Party was in government, for example, it went. the number of bureaucrats in the Directorate of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture, when we crashed. We cut there, and we thought it was important to have an effective Ministry of Agriculture and an effective Directorate of Agriculture, as opposed to some other departments, as most of the way out. There has also been a problem during this period that there has been a violent growth in departments and directorates. According to Diffi and the Aftenposten, there are 1,018 more employees in central departments and directorates today than it was in 2013. It is on Siv Jensen's watch that this has happened, that the cost of red tape has increased. It has been our criticism by the government all the way that economies of scale lead to bureaucracy, not simplification. When we see that e.g. The police directorate after the last figures I've seen had a growth in the number of bureaucrats with 60-70 pst. From 2013 to today, it has been a wrong priority – a priority we are opposed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e666	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e671	I'm going to use the measured speaking time to almost inconclusively talk about what we're actually dealing with now – the revision of the state budget for 2017. A good budget has been even better, partly through the proposals made by the government itself, which is to a large extent a follow-up to the decisions of the Stortinget, among others. through the Government Budget Agreement for 2017 and through the negotiations and the negotiation of the RNB between the Government Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. Isolatedly, we haven't moved more than 400 million. kr. I'm saying that this isn't all the world in dollars and cents, but we've spent the money well. It also shows the setting. All the important grips that are done are joined by a broad multiple in Stortinget. Today's events include: a highly targeted historical boost for entrepreneurs and self-employed people, making it easier to create jobs. The left has an impact on the strengthening of social rights for self-employed people when it comes to both pensions and sick pay. We are seeing the establishment of a tax incentive scheme for long-term investment in start-up companies – «Capitalfunn», which Left divulged it the first time we proposed it, back in 2010. And the left comes through for better option tax rules for founding companies. In total, these schemes will have a full annual impact of about 700 million. kr in light for founders and self-employed. This comes at the top of what the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Government Party have done in recent years for increased entrepreneurial activity, innovation and new green jobs. The left has had a significant impact on the cooperation we are part of. There was almost nothing happening during eight red-green years when there were improvements for founders, self-employed and business owners. Proposals for proposals from the Left and the other parties making up the plurality of the day were voted down. Now there is a completely different will and another ability to do something for Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs. Only today is a great deal happening – and much more than what happened in eight red-green years. The agreement on RNB also leads to some other important additions and reinforcements: We have strengthened efforts to combat child poverty. The income limit for free core time in kindergarten is increased to NOK 450,000, meaning that between 2000 and 3000 more children in low-income families come under the scheme. The anti-poverty system is greatly strengthened. There will be an additional 250 new study places before IT, and there will be more money for encoding in school. The government will also help, in conjunction with the State budget for 2018, to enable more teachers to undertake further education, especially teachers in the social field. In general, the effort towards sea litter, and plastics in particular, is strengthened by a new 20 million. kr. More money is spent on cancer research. And there's to be a resource center for self-organized sports, so that an ever-increasing proportion of the kids can get help and guidance to run their physical activity. In sum, as I said, a good budget has been better. Finally, I would also like to thank the colleagues in all the parties for their constructive cooperation. The changes we have made in the extraction criteria for the Oil Fund, especially for companies with coal in whole or in part in the portfolio, are one good example. The tax reform we have jointly put in place is another. In this context, there is also reason to highlight the contributions and the proposed recordings SV made, even though they finally chose to leave the negotiation room. In particular, I would like to thank the representatives of Syversen, Limi and the fleet for their time-consuming, but mainly constructive and good negotiations on four government budgets and four revised national budgets. If I have to add that from my stand he has been the most important person for the cooperation between the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Government Party has gone so well in this period – with your good results for society out there. Even when one has toiled in the cooperation agreement so that the founders of the ark for the longest time are stretched to the breaking point, he has had the ability to let us through in his wise, constructive, impressive, declaration way – and with great integrity and trust in all party and environment. The fleet is going to be missing in the work here on the house, and lucky are those who are now benefiting from his capacity and abilities. Marit Nybakk had taken over the president's office here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e703	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e708	After four years I have some sympathy with the Left, because I see that it is not easy to be a supporting party. The left agreed with the Right Party and the Advance Party on one thing, and then the government does something completely different. Breivik had a long list today. In the fall, for example, Breivik boasted. of 500 places to study in ICT. It was just 140. Breivik drew seed funds for the ICT industry in the autumn. It's now canceled. The left has long demanded a targeted tax cut for start-up companies, to which I have agreed, now the Right and Advance Party put forward a general scheme to hit a whole 40 pst. of all enterprises. The left was full of praises for renewable AS, and we are still waiting for concrete results and progress. My question is therefore as follows: Does the representative Brevik feel safe after four years of cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e713	The representative Breivik and Left are very pleased with what has happened in the field of industrial development, employment and the improvement of job creation, but also to secure existing ones. What the representative Tvedt Solberg now listed is turning things completely on his head. These are several examples of a coherent effort on short-term emergency measures in most deferred municipalities in the South and West, and not least on long-term measures to contribute to new business, entrepreneurs, but also in existing businesses. Consider, for example, an entirely historical effort such as Renewable AS, which Tvedt Solberg's representative has been delighted to accommodate in the city of Stavanger, which will just enter into existing business, existing supplier industries and help them to transform even more of the exciting technological developments that are taking place, in order to enter new green markets.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e718	Car charges have been an important topic in all these four years and in all the budget negotiations, because the Progress Party and the Left are very concerned with the car. The left will often have car charges greener, and the Progress Party will have them lower, and then we have managed to deliver on both parts. During the period, the one-off fee has decreased on average by NOK 25 000. At the same time, we see that emissions from new cars are now actually below what is the EU's 2020 target. So we've got the emissions down without punishing the drivers. We've used the carrot, and we've made changes that have given good results. The question is: will Left and Terje Breivik help us to continue this positive development even in the next period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e723	Yes, I can confirm that with a great pondus that we want that. What we have done jointly on car charges shows the genius of using the market, i.e. using taxes and charges as a tool to make it cheaper and more attractive to make climate-friendly choices in everyday life. What is probably a little under-communicated is that we have done together with the single entry fees, but also what we have done with better depreciation rates for the heavy transport industry, in sum, has had a net tax relief in the transport sector in a place between 2 and 3 billion. kr, which really shows the importance of a green tax change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e729	Officer Svein Jacobsen pronounced to NRK Hordaland yesterday: ‘Coastal safety is getting worse. Politicians have chosen to assess it differently, but I am deeply professionally dissenting.’ So he disagrees that the Sjöheimewert's intervention force is being laid down in Hordaland, and that of a government that supports the Left. Among other things, Mongstad has been one of the responsibilities of that intervention force. Now that effort is gone. Does Terje Breivik think it is a trifle, or does the Left think it is important to have a standby along the coast, and that it is unwise that the government is now implementing the actual dismantling of the Sjöheim protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e741	I didn't think this was any trifle in any way. The representative, Battle Violence Vedum, is well aware that the Left was outside the agreement on the defence's long-term plan here in the house. As I see it, I am more concerned about the grips of the party that Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has said that he will eventually enter into a post-election cooperation, including in a defence case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e746	I would like to thank Mr Breivik's representative for his nice words and to reproduce them. There has been a very pleasant acquaintance and a pleasant cooperation in this period. Then it's like the representative Breivik said, that we in SV took part in the negotiations on tax reform for a long time, but left the negotiations afterwards. That is why I would like to ask the representative Breivik: does the representative Breivik agree that there are major unresolved problems in today's tax system, where too little money is redistributed, and where too much money finds the way into passive property assets rather than being able to go to the fact that ordinary workers are left with more of their work, and that more money could be invested in new jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e753	The short answer to that is yes, and that is why we are today, for example. adopt a new tax incentive scheme that makes it more attractive for private investors to invest in Norwegian jobs rather than in ownership. Since the Serigstad Valen has given me access to it, I can also acknowledge that the Left is not satisfied. We are very pleased with what has been done, but we are very close to re-establishing the tax system, both to make it more profitable and attractive to make green choices in everyday life and in the boardroom, and to make it even easier for Norwegian business owners to compete with foreign owners. That means that in the tax reform that is now well under way, there are still things that have to be done, not least when it comes to taxes on wealth, how I think we have a lot to get a significantly larger deduction that will very well hit small business owners and others with small assets.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e760	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e765	Four years can go quickly. They're going fast on the Stortinget, they're probably going even faster for government councils. But it's also because this life is a little bit of a bubble. Four years is not the same for many other groups in society as it is for a big business representative or for a finance minister. Four years may go quickly for some, but for others it may be very long. Four years is a long time if you're a retired person and for the third year in a row you have to tighten your lifeline. Four years is a long time if you try to get into the housing market for four years but don't get it done. Four years is a long time if you live in a family with persistent low incomes. It's a very long time if you go to school every day in most of the elementary school, or if you have to know every day that you're closed from the same possibilities and the same activities, but not least the same dreams that most around you have access to. Four years is a very long time if you don't have a job. This is what politics is all about. It is about opportunities, distribution of opportunities and power — not school discussions about whether individual items in the working party’s alternative audited budget are properly managed in order to save some consulting expenses, not detailed discussions about what kind of coefficients are best suited to measuring inequality between people. That's how we're going to fight the inequalities that are politics. Politics is not a point of reference as to who has made the most bids in the national transport plan, or who suggested what last year. The mandate we have been given to manage is to ensure that people get better and make an effort for those who have voted for us. In that perspective, this debate is strangely self-referencing. It's probably so much about the relationships between people and parties here in the hall, as it's about the promises given to the voters, and the challenges that are the most important in our time. Policy is about the distribution of opportunities, the distribution of money and the distribution of power between women and men, between majority and minority, between city and district, and between poor and rich. In turn, the ruling parties recognise that differences, inequality and poverty are a problem. Best in the class is perhaps the representative Terje Breivik and the committee leader Hans Olav Syversen. Discretionary acts go to Minister of Finance Siv Jensen, who is still unable to stand on this pulpit and without anything about and but say that the inequalities are increasing, and that it is a problem. The Minister of Finance seems to be in touch with the growing differences in Norway. It may be said that differences are smaller in Norway than in other countries, so there is no problem. Well, in that case, it's not thanks to the progress party's efforts over the last 40 years. You could say that inequalities are increasing even faster in other countries. Yes, that is also true – but we are not wholesale representatives in other countries. We're big-time representatives in Norway, and we have a duty to make sure that most people in Norway have it as well as possible. Then we have to act. Four years is a long time to propose policies that can make a difference in the lives of people. We have had time to ensure that fewer live in poverty in Norway. We have had time to make sure that ordinary people and people with low incomes are left with more of the fruits of their work, while those who have the most should contribute more. Now the four years have passed, and the fasit is that the differences have increased. The fact is, we're about to probably pass 100,000 children living in persistent low incomes. The fact is that several people lack a job, and the fascination is that pensioners have lower purchasing power for the third consecutive year. The government has not been busy. For them, four years has been a momentous period of inequality. The government has been busy in other areas. They've been busy making sure that the richest prom in Norway each on average gets 264 500 dollars in tax cuts, and that's what they started pretty fast. I think they did – they should. They were to cut the taxes of the rich. They promised, and they did. But for most people, the government hasn't delivered. That is why SV 30 is promoting proposals for inequality, and I am addressing these proposals as well as all other proposals from SV, with the exception of proposal No. 108, which is taken up later, and paragraph 108. 111.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e793	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e800	One of Solberg's first governments was to abolish the inheritance fee. It was actually something that was very popular among most people, and not least the many small and medium-sized business owners who were suddenly able to make a generation change without the family being skinned. Now I see from the comments on SV in this case that they suggest that a highly redistributive inheritance fee should be imposed, just as it says, with a ‘high deduction’. I would like to hear from the representative Serigstad Valen how high this deduction should be, and if so, it will help small and medium-sized business owners to make a generation change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e809	This concern for small and medium-sized business owners is largely rhetorical on the part of the government. They have reserved the great tax cuts and the great grips of the largest owners in Norway and those with the greatest wealth. A government that cares about industrial change and small and medium-sized enterprises does not climb to 1.8 billion. kr in the initial write-offs for investments in machinery and equipment. But I'm going to take Hille's intentions seriously. The inheritance tax is the most redistributive tax we had in Norway. I'm not interested in taxing people's houses and cabins when they're inherited. What's important is that 77 of the 100 richest in Norway are heirs, and inequality is inherited. Therefore, an inheritance fee is important. The bottom subtraction can be as high as just that. I would rather ask that question to the Workers' Party and the Centre, with which we will negotiate after the election when we have won, and I am absolutely sure that we will agree on a new and more redistributive and fair inheritance fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e816	I record that the representative often talks about increasing inequality, but never about the reason why the inequality increases, namely high immigration. But I want to grasp something that is in the media today, namely that SV believes ordinary people have been eaten with crumbs. So we've reduced the abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners, which means $8,000 more a year per couple. We've increased the minimum pension by $8,000 in this period. An average family pays NOK 8 000 less in taxes in 2017 than they did in 2013. What makes it a little surrealistic is that SV calls this a crumb when they simultaneously increased the tax for the same average family in their reign. If the reliefs they now get are crumbs, is it right to call what they got from SV for moldy bread?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e823	The Party of Advancement shall be responsible for its efforts. After four years of saying that the inequality doesn't increase, and that there's no problem, the inequality is now increasing all of a sudden because there's an opportunity to blame the immigrants. There is no such debate as the Progress Party is unable to deal with immigration. First of all, I have to ask: because many of those who live in persistent low incomes in Norway have a migrant background, is it less of a problem? Are they poorer? Are we going to do less to make sure they don't live in poverty? Because that is the consequence of the rhetoric of the Progress Party in this matter. I think it's the other way around. It is more important to combat inequality and poverty if those who are poor are immigrants, precisely because a good integration policy is important. That's not the first thing you do when you get into a refugee crisis, cutting Norwegian training, for example, to those who arrive. In the case of crumbs and muffled bread, the Advance Party may ask the Pensionist League what they think about the mild gifts of the Advance Party stands and boasts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e833	I never doubt the energy of the representative of Serigstad Valen, and I understand that he has had time to also be at the press conference before this debate, where he has described a little about cooperation, etc. – that the friendship on the non-socialist side is a little weak, whereas the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, they like each other. So it's going to be okay. He also referred to that he was going to negotiate now after the election. Then it's a little interesting – and now I ask out of curiosity – that when Kristin Halvorsen in his biography talks about the Workers' Party, she uses an expression, and that expression is "the Lord's people". So my question to the representative Serigstad Valen is: why do you think Kristin Halvorsen used that expression, and why does the representative Serigstad Valen think it's going to be so much better this time?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e840	During our reign, we doubled the assistance. There is something Christian People's Party has never achieved when they have ruled the country, nor will they ever do anything similar. We put in full babysitting. The inequality went down in the course of our reign – not at very close to as much as it should, but it did. We introduced a more redistributive tax system, where many of those with low incomes were left with significantly more, while those with the most contributed more. What previous managers of SV write in their autobiography is almost asked the former leaders of SV about, but I think it is illustrative that this is what is raised in the last line of this last debate in the Stortinget, and not a political question with a background in e.g. our alternative budget or the policy on which we are going to vote. I would like to thank the committee chairman for his cooperation for four years. He is cordially welcome to extended red-green cooperation on the right side after the election, whether the Christian People's Party should come up with better thoughts, but until then I would like to thank for the follow-up and say that it is possible to reduce inequality, and I want the Christian People's Party to experience that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e849	A little question that is just about inequality. I've used a part of my main post to say that this is a very good day for self-employed people, where today the Storting is deceiving the social systems that are not least indebted to female businessmen. These are proposals that are supported by all the parties in the Storting, except for the Socialist Left Party. It is the only thing that will not affect the health care system before self-employed and self-employed women. Why my SV, which is a heavy head defender of 100 pst. sick pay compensation for our employees, that it is quite wrong that the compensation rate for self-employed persons is increased from 65 to 75 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e858	We are highly dependent on as good welfare schemes as possible for all citizens of society. The fact that we disagree with the majority today doesn't mean that we're opponents of it. I would say that this is not primarily a good day for the self-employed, as a result of the revised budget. It's primarily a good day for investors, who get huge tax cuts almost regardless of where they invest. The left has given its honour to introduce a system adopted today, which, unfortunately, is so broadly defined as to include 40 pst. by all Norwegian companies. That's good news for those who have half a million left to invest in a virtually any business, but it's probably an example that if you're not targeted enough in business policy, it's usually just the ones that serve it, and not the ones that were meant to hit.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e865	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e870	Let me start by thanking the cooperation parties Left and Christian People's Party for constructive cooperation. We also reached agreement in good time this time, and we have come up with good solutions for several common goals. Today Stortinget deals with its last case in this session. It could be a time to look back at what this period has been characterized by. Three years ago, the Norwegian economy was hit by the most severe fall in oil and gas prices of 30 years. Our oil-heavy economy in the South and West was hit hard. Many lost their jobs, both in the petroleum industry and in other industries. There have been some demanding years for many families. Having a job to go to is important for the individual. Safe jobs level up differences, provide freedom of choice and greater opportunities for all – it is important for both value creation and well-being. The government has taken the challenges on the labour market very seriously. We have put in place targeted measures to create activity and jobs in the regions and industries that are hardest hit by lower oil prices. Now the growth of the economy is on its way up, and unemployment is on its way down. More people come to work. It's very joyful, and it's a sign that the government's policy is working. The improvement we now see in the Norwegian economy is supported by a powerful economic policy. Weaker crowns help export businesses, while low interest rates and expansionary fiscal policies attract domestic demand for goods and services. The package of measures adopted last autumn supports employment in the areas and industries most hit by lower oil prices. In the revised budget, we are stepping up further efforts to combat unemployment. We increase the supply of labour market measures by 500 places, strengthen the follow-up to the long-term unemployed and increase the follow-up resources of job seekers under 30 years. It is also helpful that the oil price has risen from the bulge levels last winter. High effort in oil companies to cut costs and drive more efficiently has also produced results. Many projects on Norwegian soil have become cheaper and the prospects for oil investment have improved. However, the Norwegian economy is still affected by the fall in the oil price from the summer of 2014. Economic growth has so far been moderate, and employment has not kept pace with population growth over time. Since the turn of the year, there have been signs of a new rise in employment. Nevertheless, it will take time for employment to rise as a proportion of the population, because the population is also growing. In addition, ageing makes it more demanding to keep the employment rate high. The same applies to increased immigration from poor countries. The revised budget is primarily an update of the budget in line with new information. The growth in the Norwegian economy is expected this year to take on some of the land that was set aside last autumn, and the unemployment rate is lower. The financial framework we put in the national budget for 2017 is meeting well. In the last few months, both the IMF and the OECD have agreed that fiscal policy is well adapted to the economic situation. According to these organisations, growth in Norway would be lower if the government had not pursued an expansionary policy. The government uses fiscal policy actively to counteract unemployment. At the same time, we cannot go too hard on the throttle pedal – it may get in the way that the interest rate and the exchange rate are done in the job. Less aid from the oil industry cannot meet with short-term measures alone, or a large-scale expansion of the public sector. Lost jobs in the oil industry cannot be replaced by jobs in the public sector. In the years to come, Norwegian business will need more legs to stand on. We know from experience that big changes in the economy are demanding. The weak rate is a welcome drag, but it's also important how we spend the money in the budget. If we are to succeed in creating new jobs and bringing about long-term growth, we must give priority to measures that can increase the growth capacity of the economy. This government has done so in all the budgets we have put forward. In the 2017 budget, the government is strengthening its commitment to innovation, knowledge and infrastructure. It reduces the cost of transport to industry, strengthens innovation and enhances the competence of the population. At the same time, we continue to implement the tax reform in line with the tax settlement. Recent changes in the tax system promote investment in Norwegian business and provide the basis for increased employment. In the revised budget, we strengthen further efforts and introduce a tax incentive scheme for long-term investment in start-up companies. It makes start-ups more profitable. I must say that I heard the representative Serigstad Valen in the debate earlier today. On the one hand, he has been critical of putting too many of his capital into commercial property. But when he was going to answer why he was opposed to this incentive scheme for long-term investment in start-up companies, it was almost a problem that people with profits and capital put their money into businesses that might be viable and create new jobs and tax revenues for society. I can't join the SV's reasoning. We also want to facilitate increased private savings for pensions. We want to introduce a new tax-advanced individual savings scheme for pensions, at the same rate as for deposits and withdrawals. The system replaces the current IPS system, and we will be sending a proposal for consultation in a short time. The government also strengthens the finances of pensioners in this budget. In the revised budget, we give a tax relief to the pensioners. In agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, married and cohabiting minimum pensioners will also get a boost. From the outset, lone minimum pensioners have increased their pension by NOK 4000 twice. The last NOK 4000 will enter into force on 1 September of this year. In some other areas too, we have seen the need to make adjustments in the revision of the budget. Among other things, we improve the conditions for lone minors in reception through faster settlement. We refund the one-off fee for the purchase of new motorcycles in an environmentally friendly way. The change means that the one-off fee will make it profitable to choose low-carbon motorcycles. For most light motorcycles, the change means that the one-off fee falls away. I am pleased with the agreement we have reached with the cooperation parties on the revised budget for the current year. We agree on a budget that is well adapted to the challenges facing Norwegian economy, Norwegian businesses and ordinary people. The government has staggered a course that responds to the challenges of the Norwegian economy in both the short and long term. We have implemented measures to facilitate the transformation of the economy and to contribute to growth and new jobs. In the revised budget, we are keeping to this rate. Finally, since it is the last day of the Grand Duchy, let me take this opportunity to thank the Financial Committee for its good and constructive cooperation. We have had many important debates.Many of the issues we have dealt with have been agreed on, but there have also been many debates where the lines of Norwegian policy have emerged clearly and clearly. But first of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its constructive cooperation and for having had good debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e908	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e913	I would like to start by returning the Minister of Finance's thanks for the cooperation. Thanks to her, too. It's been an exciting journey in many ways. Recently, we have heard many representatives from the government parties almost deny that increasing differences in Norway have anything to do with politics, but it is quite obvious that the fiscal policy that has been implemented in the last four years has contributed to strengthening that development. We have now received the programme of the Progress Party for the next four years, and the new 50 billion is promised in tax cuts, which has been calculated by the Minister of Finance's own department, among other things. through the complete elimination of taxes on wealth. And not enough with that: the collective wage making, which is even more important than tax to distribute, they're going to remove the Progress Party. So the question is simple: if the Minister of Finance party is given the opportunity to implement its programme, will the differences in Norway be reinforced, or will they be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e922	I disagree with Mr Marthinsen's claim that members of the two government parties are not interested in combating differences. Rather, on the contrary: we have done a lot of action over these four years just to do so. We have had targeted actions aimed at poor children; we have made changes to the scheme for the grant of kindergartens, so that those with the greatest financial challenges are more likely to have children's gardening. I believe that we have taken a long series of steps to reduce the social discomfort it is to feel that you are outside. I got arrested by the post of the representative Serigstad Valen, and I share many of the reflections he had about how time can be long if you are on the outside. That's exactly why it's important to do something about it. But the Labour Party's only answer to this is about taxes. I disagree. But I believe that a redistributive tax system helps us to have good welfare arrangements in Norway, and that is what we have strengthened under this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e929	Distribution is about much more than tax, and it also bears the character of the Labour Party's policy. Wages and salaries are important, what is happening in the labour market is important, and therefore it is so serious that we now have the lowest employment rate of over 20 years. It's very worrying, at least when we see it in combination with the fact that the number of young people is growing dramatically, that we have more on persistent low incomes. So I would say this is extra serious for the country when we see it in the context of very weak productivity development. In 2014, this so-called red-green gap, which I am absolutely sure the Minister of Finance remembers well, would be close by increasing productivity growth. Now it's almost zero. And it's not only low in oil-related industries, but also in industries that have had large investments, for example. in construction. So I just want to ask whether this combination of low employment and very weak productivity development is something that worries the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e938	Let me first say that I agree that the labour market is perhaps one of the most important tools we have to combat inequalities in a society, because having a job to go to is perhaps one of the most important things for each of us. What we pointed out in the Perspective Communication is, in particular, two areas where there can be great potential in relation to future work developments. One is to reduce involuntary part-time among women, which is a major problem in Norway and with which we can do something. The second is to increase employment, participation in working life for many immigrants who are not in work, and there has been a continuing problem for many, many years, as this government also inherited from the previous one. We have to do something about that. It's about good integration, it's about language training, it's about qualification, and it's about facilitating more jobs. And then it is important that we organise – through fiscal policy, through innovation policy – for more jobs to be created, so that more businesses can be born.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e946	I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for a good cooperation on the revised national budget. The finance minister started his post by making this a little wider by looking back on what we've got, and forward. What I want to challenge the Minister of Finance is that the Land Meeting of the Progress Party chose to adopt a circumcision ban. Should Jewish good children be circumcised in Norway? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Ervin Kohn, leader of the Mosaic trust society, has said that it is to ban a religious practice and a Jewish tradition. He went so far as to say that it is a signal that Jews are not wanted in our country. I don't think that's the intention of the Progress Party. But when a person experiences such strong reactions, I would like to ask: What does the Minister of Finance think? Is this decision unwise?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e953	From one party leader to another, I believe that at least one can safely say that a party leader is not going to judge. It's the national meetings that are the sovereigns to make decisions in all parties. But what I can assure the representative of is that I have met with Ervin Kohn and many others to tell us what is the position of the Progress Party. I also believe that the representative Hareide is very well aware of the solid support that the Jewish communities have had from the Progress Party over all those years. We've been busy fighting anti-semitism, we've gone into a rush to strengthen their rights. We have really been a strong speaker to strengthen the rights of the Jews in Norway, and we intend to continue that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e960	In four years, the Finance Minister and the Progress Party have demanded more toll than any government before. So they haven't achieved their goal of removing the tolls at all. What is perhaps more eye-catching is that the Minister of Finance and the Progress Party have adopted more new toll crowns than any government before. In my own country, Rogaland, the population has been charged almost $100,000 in tolls from the Progress Party for these four years. So my son, who goes to kindergarten, has to pay tolls, introduced by Siv Jensen and Ketil Solvik-Olsen, until he is 25 years old. Then the Progress Party now says that tolls are necessary to get built roads. Yeah, that's the Center Party, too. We have tolls to get built. My question to Siv Jensen is whether it can now be established that the Progress Party and the Center Party are some in the view of tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e967	It was the end of the line I was waiting for, namely that the Central Party admits that yes, the government has presented many important matters of transport to the Stortinget. The Central Party has adopted them. So when the Center Party tries to create the impression that everything that's happened on the toll side is not related to the Center Party, it's directly wrong. But what has happened, and that didn't happen to the Central Party in government, is that we have increased the government's contribution. The state share of road projects has increased. We've laid down several toll stations, we've reduced the rates of the bomb projects outside the big cities, and that wouldn't happen to another government. We have taken our responsibility and tried to take care of our election promises, but we have recognised from day one that this was an area where we stood completely alone. But we've done what we've been able to do to reduce tolls, and increase the state's contribution. And I'm quite satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e974	When we sum up four years with a new civil plurality, we can establish, as the Minister did, that Norwegian policies in important areas have changed for the better. This is not the least the case in Norwegian business, research, innovation and knowledge, it is the case in several motivated, knowledge-rich teachers, and it is the case in climate and environmental policy. What everyone said was impossible, simply that the Left and the Progress Party in cooperation should strengthen climate and environmental policies, has happened. It does not show at least the climate message that the government submitted last Friday. The message shows that we can reach Norway's climate commitments by means of the decisions and instructions made by the Stortinge, provided that they are put to work. For the decisions and decisions of the Grand Duchy, the implementation of these decisions lies in the Ministry of Finance, among others. through the charging policy. My question is whether the Minister of Finance can confirm that she is behind the message and the instructions the message provides for future policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e981	The representative of Breivik knows very well that all the members of the government are behind the announcements made by the government to the Stortinget. I agree that – against perhaps many predictions – there has been good cooperation between the Left and the Advance Party in many things where many thought we were not going to make it. One of the areas is the climate area, where we've done the trick of being concerned with using carrots in many contexts where other parties are talking about whips. The car charges, which were the theme of a previous line change, are a good example of that. We have changed the charges in a positive direction for the drivers. This means that the replacement of the car park now goes faster than ever. It becomes more reasonable for ordinary people to buy new cars, which pollute less, but also contribute to increased safety for families with children. I believe that this is the result of good cooperation, the aim of which is also to reduce the tax burden on citizens. By introducing such an overall framework, good solutions can be found.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e988	Principles must be measured on what practical consequences they actually have. You can have the best principles and the best intentions, but if the outcome gets right, it doesn't matter what purpose you had. I understand that the government's intention to cut the children's allowance for disabled dependants was to ensure that – to quote the government itself – ‘always pay off to work’. Everyone agrees that working will pay off, and that is also how it pays to work. The problem is that these cuts by the government are extremely severe for some families. We're talking about thousands – and in some cases tens of thousands – of dollars a year. This is a cut that has a negligible budgetary impact – it is in the context of government budgets talking about small money. So is there any chance that the Minister of Finance and the Progress Party on the last day of the Grand Duchy can change and vote to reverse these cuts, which hit some families very hard?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e997	I am not primarily concerned with principles. I am committed to implementing policies that contribute to making everyday life better for the inhabitants of this country. It's about making arrangements for more people to come to work. Therefore, it has been important to make changes to the tax system, it has been important to strengthen the transport budget, it has been important to do something about the school, it has been important to strengthen research and education, and it has been important to use the instrument in a good way. Then I would like to remind the representative of Valen that it was the previous government that presented the misguided reform. It was this government that discovered that there were significant injustices in it, which we corrected by making changes as soon as we discovered this. It's a fact. Then one can well discuss whether we should do more and twist this further, but I think SV has to admit that there were significant weaknesses in the bad government of SV, and in which this government has corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1004	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1009	Today's budget debate is the last in this four-year period, and then the question is, What will the government's economic policy be remembered for? The Right Party and the Advance Party have chosen from the outset to focus on tax cuts as an important strategy – their solution to the challenges facing Norway. The availability was among the most important. The Minister of Finance stressed that a lower level of taxation was ‘the main measure to promote conversion, value creation and employment in business’. But it didn't. The results of economic policy have been weak and have been weak for a long time. The government itself shows that the unemployment rate has fallen somewhat recently, and yes: we see some positive signs in the Norwegian economy, and we are going to enjoy them. The working party hopes they continue. Because that's what it takes. The availability is still high, we've done a lot of work, and historical tasks are waiting for us. But when I hear from the Right that the Labour Party must have lost a election campaign card because unemployment has gone down somewhat, well, it reveals first and foremost that unemployment for the Right is a political game. The right is saying this at a time when unemployment is clearly higher than what we've been used to in the last twenty years, and they're saying it at the same time as the Statistical Central Bureau writes that the reason why unemployment falls is probably primarily because people are withdrawing from the workforce. And when unemployment falls because more people withdraw from the labour market, the Labour Party has not lost its main cause. Norway has had an even greater problem. And the revised national budget shows that the proportion of people in jobs is estimated to fall further. That's the big problem we have to solve. It is serious that this government has such weak results in the area that counts the most – the economy and the labour market. We see weak job growth and high unemployment, a weakened organised working life with a lower level of organisation and a weaker labour environment law, weaker productivity growth and increasing disparities. The weak results have been achieved despite a record high use of oil revenues. In four years, the Right and Advance Party have increased oil money consumption more than in the previous twelve, including the financial crisis budget in 2009. Siv Jensen has become historical in this period. She is the first finance minister to withdraw from the pension fund. Yes, the withdrawals have been so large that in the coming years there is no room for further escalation of oil revenue. Erna Solberg and the rest of the government have failed to make the necessary priorities. This is how opportunities have been lost, both for people and for society. In turn, the Labour Party will make Norway the most important part of Norwegian policy. We will build on the best we have in this society: small differences, safe working life for everyone and strong communities. That's what brings development and conversion. The budget that was finally adopted for 2017 is not the Labour Party budget, but we have many proposals that could improve the budget. In the revised budget, we propose a stronger commitment to competence and qualification to get people to work. Education is essential for creating a society with opportunities for everyone, work for everyone and well-being for everyone. Few societies demand as high a level of competence as ours. The competence of workers is crucial for the success of creating new industries and developing the private and public sectors. This is why the commitment to competence is so important for the Workers' Party. We are proposing a large-scale investment in vocational training and more apprenticeships. This is necessary to ensure the professional skills that Norway needs more in the future: skilled workers in industries that build the country and health professionals in many of the care professions. We have to turn the decline to a rise. We are proposing a value creation programme for our marine industries. Norway has great opportunities for growth and job creation. Now there is a need for political will to bet and point out a direction. Our proposals don't get a majority right now, but for the autumn it's a choice. And the Labour Party is ready to create budgets that put Norway first: work, opportunities and security for all. Then, since I started this period as a member of the Financial Committee, I will join the Committee, which thanks the Minister of Finance for both cooperation and settlement. In the period after I joined the Financial Committee, I also have reason to thank the Minister of Finance for both cooperation and duel and honest political equality between men and women on important issues for the country. And since I am on this platform, I would also like to thank the President for the long-standing work she has had in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1032	The President then thanked him for that and expected the representative to also put forward proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1038	He has also made suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1043	The representative Jonas Gahr Støre has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1050	I heard in the post of Gahr Støre that he was concerned about the use of oil money, and historically, the Right Party and the Workers' Party have agreed on an economically responsible line in Norwegian policy. We have agreed on pension settlements, partial privatisation of heavy-duty state enterprises, the establishment of the oil fund and responsible budget settlement. But after spring's many curvatures from the Workers' Party, there's a reason to ask if this line is now abandoned. I ask after hearing Jonas Gahr Støre in the debate on NTP, where the Labour Party lacked well over 100 billion. kr to finance its plan. Here, in the revised version, he would have 1000 new places to study, but would pay for 500. He says on the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee that he wants to keep a helicopter on Bardufoss without taking the bill of $3. kr, and all students shall receive the iPad, etc., etc. Gahr Støre compared himself to Harry Potter in the NTP debate. Can it be confirmed that Jens Stoltenberg took the Labour Party calculator to Brussels, and that Jonas Gahr Støre has replaced it with a magic wand?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1059	It was the Minister of Transport who gave me that appointment, and I don't want to talk down Harry Potter. I also appointed him to be the Norwegian version of Humlesnurr, Harry Potter's teacher. The working party has the sheep full of calculators. I am absolutely sure that Jens Stoltenberg has with him – I have the impression that when I hear him speaking in private channels about what he thinks about Norwegian politics. But the Labour Party uses sound political discretion when it comes to taking political responsibility for the economy. Our budgets are going up. In the national transport plan, we've added 7 billion. kr more than the government of a frame of about 1000 billion. kr. The right added over 30 billion. kr more than our proposal in 2013, Progress Party over 400 billion. kr more. So they really have something to learn about surrender, if that's what the representative is worried about. But he does not have to be, as far as the Workers' Party is concerned, because we are to provide responsible budgets, responsible policies and make Norway the most important in Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1068	Let me also go back a little bit to what we treated on Monday, the national transport plan. The most perceptive thing then was not that the opposition had no clear common priorities, but lack of funding. The Workers' Party has now refuted the fact that they have a magic wand, and then the question is, how has the Workers' Party planned to finance its promises in the future when the tax increase of 15 billion kroner was made. kr is disposed of? The wand isn't there. To make it more effective, cut, and in the event of what cut and what efficiency is the Workers' Party planning? That was not answered by the debate on Monday.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1073	I do not want to reproach the representative Limi for not having read our National Transport Plan proposal – he is sitting in another committee – but this is thoroughly explained, and our estimates are coming up. What we've shown is that if we make savings in projects, if we make technological breakthroughs, if we do what the industry itself says, to build more efficiently, and funds are released, then we point to projects that we can implement, and we've put a pot on it. Then we will be able to deliver on it in the budget. So we're assuming that we can get to things, we can do more. But the interesting thing about this election is that we're facing a government that says there's no more freedom of action left in the economy to spend more oil money, increase the use of oil money, and then they have one party that will increase the tax cuts by 20 billion. kr, and the representative’s party that will increase the tax cuts by 50 billion. kr. Then, for the first time, do we have a real debate: tax cuts or welfare? That question is going to come then, because then you cannot compensate for even more oil money. The Workers' Party chooses well-being, not as a cost, but as an investment in people's ability to benefit themselves in their own lives and in work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1080	I'm sure the Labour Party will deliver the responsible budget, but when it comes to the National Transport Plan, to which I've read the Workers' Party's input, I see that there's a pot of money here. And that's 5 billion. kr extra on the road, while the roads that indicate that you want to do something with it get a sum of 50 billion. kr. It's said that InterCity should be in place in 2030. We know it will cost tens of billions, and E39 along the coast will also have significant sums of the ambitions of the Labour Party. My question is: do I think the Labour Party will provide responsible budgets, but will they deliver on the projects that they have given the signal that they now want to be built?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1091	Let me distinguish something very concrete. We are going to complete Arna–Stanghelle, for which we have investigated and were in favour of our period, but could not afford money, because it was not fully determined. That's very concrete. Then we're going to be here in 2030, Knut Arild Hareide and I, still active in Norwegian politics, either on the rise or in government, and look back at 2017 and say: Think about everything that happened in the transport sector, think about the technological breakthroughs, think about everything that was possible to do that we didn't see for ourselves in 2017. We're going to see that. And that's where the Workers' Party has said we're lifting broadband bets as part of the National Transport Plan. These are the new transport routes. And we say, if we can build more efficiently – 30 pst. The industry says they build more efficiently in other countries – if we can achieve this even more effectively than the representative is proud of in his or her approach, then we point to alternatives that we can accelerate. And we maintain the goal of InterCity and believe that if we can make progress in the way we build, we can also achieve that goal. The budget shall be decided on and the Workers' Party has always delivered in line with its commitments in relation to the national transport plan and the individual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1096	I admit it's been a while since the Left had the Prime Minister, but one of the last things the last Left Minister of State got in place was tripartite cooperation in Norway. It has been a great advantage for Norway. I also believe that one thing the Labour Party has printed to its heart and that it has seen how important it has been for our competitiveness, for cohesion and for all the good solutions we have developed. I also believe that tripartite cooperation will be very important for Norway as a nation. That's why I was a little surprised, or actually a little anxious, when the representative Gahr Støre went out a few days ago and said that employers have far too much power in tripartite cooperation, that we have to restore the balance of power in the world of work, when we really see that tripartite cooperation works very well. It has also worked under different governments. So what power is he afraid of? What balance is crooked, and how is it going to be in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1101	I did not say that the balance of power was about tripartite cooperation, but in Norwegian society and working life that balance has tipped under this government. When the government with Left's support introduces more temporaryity in working life at a time when the labour force is experiencing pressures for temporaryity from global developments – 60 pst. of new jobs in the OECD are now temporary – once the workers’ protection laws have been weakened, and when major reforms are carried out in many areas without consulting the social partners, well then I find that this is a good thing, that the balance is ticking. We think it's crucial that it tip back into balance. Tripartite cooperation is to be practised in the context of working life, but in many other areas in order to achieve our goals in our society, we are served with it. We want a higher degree of organisation, among people at work and in companies, and we want to stimulate both because it's an investment. With bourgeois government, with Left's support, it taps towards those with the strongest participations and the strongest technological interests. We want that balance back, and that's why we're at a party with people at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1107	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1112	At the end of this ageing period, it is good to be able to determine: the availability goes down, the growth goes up, and more jobs are created. Absence in high school has fallen sharply, and health cows have become shorter. The four years that are soon to come have posed quite different challenges than what we saw when we took over – the strongest oil price drop of 30 years with subsequent unemployment, a cruel war in Syria with a refugee crisis that no one had foreseen. We have gained control of immigration through broad agreements here in Stortinget and hard work by the government. We now see that it shines in the Norwegian economy. Today we are discussing the revised budget for the last time in this period. Throughout all the budgetary procedures, the four cooperation parties have come to an end, not always as painless, but we have agreed – and it was very easy to agree this time. It shows that the four parties gather to find good solutions, for the good of the country. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Advance Party for their good cooperation, which has produced good results for all four parties, individually and collectively, but most importantly, for Norway. Today’s revision supports migration and growth in the Norwegian economy. The large amount of money in the budget is used to develop more pathways and pathways, to strengthen efforts towards youth and long-term unemployment, to improve the framework conditions for entrepreneurs, to boost business life – to give everyone the opportunity to get a job. The choice for the harvest will be a choice between modernisation and reversal, regarding the changes needed to take care of Norway as the world’s best country to live in. In the revised budget, we continue to focus on job growth and employment. We're increasing the number of action sites by 500. We're going to increase the apprenticeship once again. We strengthen the follow-up to the long-term unemployed and expand efforts towards the unemployed under 30 years of age. The most important thing is that we now see that the policy is working. Freedom goes down, and growth goes up. We've spent about the same amount of oil money on both sides of the line in Norwegian politics. The difference is what we've been using them on. Before this period, the Right was clear on what we would prioritize. We'd bet on infrastructure, we'd bet on growth-enhancing tax incentives and research and education. And that's what we've been betting on. We've laid the foundation for new growth, and we see that it's going well in more and more industries. The country of travel Norway is a fantastic product, and travel life goes down. Fishery and aquaculture industries are going better than ever, and exports have increased rapidly. It goes down in the interior, it goes down in the north of Norway, it goes down in the east, and it shines down in the west. The growth goes up, and the time off goes down. We are faced with a campaign where there will be two main directions: modernisation or reversal. The newspapers are an overview of a lot of things. The list of reversals to be performed if the Workers' Party, Centre Party, SV, MDG and Red take over the control becomes long. The funny thing is that the old reform party Workers' Party has now become the big brake block. The working party gave the Right a brake block for 100 years – but now it is the working part that has become the brake block. All new ideas are focused on how to go back on reforms undertaken by the Solberg government – the border of absence, road and rail reforms, community mergers and free treatment choices. It is quite incredible to hear Jonas Gahr Støre stand here and say that they should streamline the transport sector for tens of billions of dollars, when the only thing we have heard in this period is a complaint about the efficiency measures and change measures that this government has taken – New Roads, railway reform, etc. I'm happy – or I'm afraid, really – to see the proposals the Workers' Party has been planning to make. Where are the visions? Where's the news? It seems that the sole aim of the Workers' Party is to reinstate the government offices and reverse reforms – lean back and hope that things will go well. I am pleased that the government parties and the cooperation parties have contributed to the conversion of Norway, led by a sharp fall in oil prices, a historical refugee crisis – while at the same time contributing to the decline of unemployment and growth. We have started the conversion of Norway. Thank you to all good colleagues who are coming out of the Storting for good cooperation and good debates over many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1135	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1140	I heard the representative from Greece say that unemployment went down, but despite all the figures today, it shows that unemployment is rising. But something that actually goes down in this country is the level of organization of work. This is quite serious, because a well-organised working life makes workers safe, giving them more influence over their own working day. In addition, it is profitable to be organised both for individuals and for society. The working party will do more things to improve its level of organisation. The only thing we want to do is change the purpose of the Work Environment Act, so that we also establish that a well-organised working life is part of the purpose. The other thing we want to do is to give professional organisations a stronger position, for example. through collective redress, and we will also increase the trade union deduction. In the latter case, this government has let the trade union deduction fall through the entire period because they have not adjusted it. So my question is, how does Right intend to contribute to a well-organized working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1147	There is no disagreement that a well-organised working life is a strength for Norway. It contributes to better harmony in the determination of wages and salaries. It helps us to have a positive development on all indices that go on inequality and on economics – I kept saying – development and ‘advancedness’. So I'm positive with that. But it's not like the only tax relief, which the Workers' Party prioritises, I understand, is to increase the trade union deduction. That's not a way we want to go. We want a working life where people are free to organize, but where it can be an advantage for many to be organized. We want a working life where employers organise themselves and can negotiate with the LO, the YS and the Academics and other important trade unions. But making a special policy aimed at one trade union is not our line.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1152	There is a number of examples of initiatives that the Labour Party will take to contribute to an organised working life. The representative of Greece only chose to focus on one of them and to try to ridicule that measure. But the sum of what the representative of Greece says points to the fact that the Right believes that one should not take political initiatives to help bring up the organised labour market. At least he gave no example that the Right wants to actively do anything, except to use a number of positively charged interventions about the organized working life. Does he intend to do something active himself also to help us still have the Norwegian working life model that we have today? Or is he just going to stand here and talk nice about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1157	But it must be a big misunderstanding, for all that legislation, all that – I was saying – the dialogue with business, with working life, with employers and employees, it has continued. Under this government it has been strengthened. Among other things, we have an action plan on social dumping and crime at work, to which LO was very positive. We have a number of initiatives. But it should not be that we develop our own policy for trade unions and for the LO. It's not our wish. What we want is to have good tripartite cooperation and to continue it and to involve the parties strongly when there are laws to develop. The representative of Hadia Tajik knows very well that LO, NHO and other organizers have their mouths in direct dialogue with the government, they are in law and have a number of possibilities to influence. We want a balanced policy, where the social partners are taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1166	Some of the posts here today are going to be a kind of summary of the period. And at the beginning of this period, the Center Party invited the Right Party and the Advance Party to cooperate on a new predatory policy. There we got a blank rejection. So the government led a rather defensive policy in winter, which has led to us now having far more wolf than before roaming around, and which has taken a lot of sheep in ours. The Prime Minister has shown touching concern by coming on a helicopter trip to Hadeland and visiting the farmers and telling them that we are going to do something here. There have also been many proposals in this area that have not been followed up. Today, Gunnar Gundersen's representative is promoting an interesting proposal for a study by the Research Council on the genetic origin of the wolf tribe, and we are promoting a proposal for a standing breeding permit, which could actually help extract the wolf found in the grazing areas. Will the Right support these proposals and thus contribute to a better predatory policy and give the Prime Minister an extensive hand when she says that she should help the farmers in Hadeland?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1175	I believe that we have come a long way in terms of predatory game policy, during this period. There has been an impatiently broad majority in the Great Britain who have wanted to get the momentum both to look at genetic research of wolves and to trap several wolves, especially those who are outside the zone – they should share as quickly as possible. However, the representative, Mr Gundersen, has presented a proposal on his own today. Everyone knows Gundersen's commitment to the wolf. It's an engagement I share far on the way, but I don't think it's a good idea to go into the middle of a process where the department is now working on bids, working on collecting different actors that are going to be independent, to map the genetic origin of the wolf. So we're not going to support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1182	For SV, a key policy issue is to ensure that everyone can have a safe home, and then housing support is important, because many people have poor advice. In the last three years, however, there have been over 15 000 fewer people receiving housing aid in Norway. At the same time, the population has increased by several hundred thousand, the bouts have exploded, and the income of those with the lowest income and social security has remained almost silent, and for some it has fallen. The bank says why this has happened. One is that you haven't taken back a gap that's lying there. The other thing is that the failure falls out due to changes in the rules. Now we just heard the Minister of Finance say that this was a good change, as if one had corrected an injustice. Then I also have to ask Greece: Does the Right and Greece really think that it is unfair for the injured who cannot afford to live to receive housing, as they were given before?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1187	I believe that the most important thing about housing support is that it is targeted at those who need it the most, and that is what we have done. There has been a strong improvement for those who have the greatest needs for housing support. I can add that it was just now published statistics that show that the number of homeless people in Norway has fallen sharply, for the first time in many years, and nothing happened under the red-green government. So the number of homeless people, i.e. people who have had to live on the street, has fallen sharply under this government. We take people seriously by targeting those who need it the most. We have also done that with regard to the housing support.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1195	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1200	Initially, I will be allowed to thank good colleagues for many debates over the 20 years I have been given a big representative in this house, and I will now conclude with my last post in this room as a big crowd representative. In this regard, I would just like to say the following: for the Progress Party, security is one of the most fundamental elements of a human life, security of life and health, especially in a world where we now see a variety of uncertainties both related to terrorism and not least that many experience major changes in everyday life. That is why the government has had a great deal of focus on strengthening defence, through the long-term plan of defence adopted by the Stortinget, we have chosen to strengthen the police significantly, and various measures have been taken, including within the judiciary, to meet the future that is to be seen. In this respect, armored cars were made available in each police district, and three new police helicopters were acquired. In addition, there has been a significant increase in the number of police officers in the districts during the period, and provision has also been made for 300 million. kr in earmarked funds to the police districts in the current year’s budget. In addition, you have now actually granted 100 million. kr, just earmarked for police cars and other equipment, in connection with the revised budget of the year. These things are very important, because if the police districts and the police don't have the resources and equipment they need, you won't be able to give the people the security they need to have in their everyday lives. Then it's a little strange to hear the representative Jonas Gahr Støre here instead talk about the broadband as the transport solution of the future. I expect that there was a communication solution he talked about, because it is still very difficult to transport salmon through broadband. We actually need infrastructure in place to get our goods into a market. Safety is also about life and health. It has been important for the Advancement Party to provide assistance when you need help, whether it is your own need for help or your closest relatives who need it – be the care of doctors, psychiatrists, psychologists, specialist health services or in the care of municipalities. That's why the government has used the really big money, the big money, to reduce the health cows, which grew to record heights over the eight years the red-green fell. That is why we have given priority to making significant commitments for the construction of lucky days' places and rehabilitation in lucky days' places in the care sector. Yes, only now that you've been revised, you're offering 1 300 lucky day care places, and there's twice as many places that the red-greens got in place in their eight years. They delivered 567 new places, despite a promise of 12,000. That's what I call poor achievement. There is much to be done in the revised national budget, including: 1,300 new places in the care and care of the lucky day, but if we see the period as a whole, this government has provided a tremendous amount in the health and care sector. We have significantly reduced the number on the waiting list. As I said, we have ensured that quality indicators are introduced in the municipalities. We have introduced that those who live in double rooms against their will will will be reduced in payment, precisely to provide incentives to ensure that they get the most in one room. From 1 January 2020, day-to-day services for residents with dementia will be regulated. This government prioritizes health and care, prioritises security, and that's where the big money goes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1217	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1222	We're at the end of a four-year period, and that's the time of the accounting. The Progress Party got a pretty brutal experience in 2013, that politics is actually choosing. You can't promise everything to everyone and keep all the promises, many had to run from. You had to choose between tax cuts and money for elderly care and school. You had to choose whether those who had the most would get more, or whether those who had the usual income would get more. One had to choose between investing in businesses, building Norwegian industry and selling the heirloom silver. On region by region, selected Progress Batch Error. My question is, when you give 25 billion. kr. in tax cuts, most of which go to those who have the most, where in four years the 50 richest people in Norway have received 1 billion. SEK – 20 million. kr. each – and disabled person loses car support, pensioners lose earmarked grants for cultural services, sufferers are cut: what is behind the type of priority on the part of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1229	It is sad to hear that the representative Giske continues on that track. He has obviously learned a sentence that he will take in every single debate. With regard to the tax, it concerns whether more people should retain more of their own income, and it is important to provide an incentive to work, and with regard to the income tax of persons, it is where the largest sum has been used. In addition, this government has taken care to reduce health cows by 80,000, which were on the list, while the previous government has allowed more and more of them to appear on this list. Yeah, that's right, we've removed the inheritance tax, or the death tax, because we think it's important. Yes, we have also done something in a number of other areas, both within the TaxFUNN and in other business taxation, to create new jobs, to create the jobs of the future, to generate growth – and it is important to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1240	I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank Mr Nesvik for his cooperation. It is a capable parliamentarian who takes office as a staging representative. And with the capacity he is, I can challenge him on something I haven't quite understood. The Progress Party programme states that the principle of the Progress Party is that weirs must pay. At the same time, they say elsewhere in the programme that they will not increase taxes, taxes and costs for citizens and businesses. How is it a good thing to let the trout pay if the lot is opposed to the means to collect the money? Or, for example, when it comes to municipalities: one says that municipalities should have the possibility to control and expand their incomes, while one at the same time prohibits it in other parts of the programme? That's my last challenge to Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1245	It could be tempting to leave it to the party leader, who is responsible for the party organization, I have been responsible for the big group, and we have worked very closely with the Christian People's Party through these four years that we have behind us now. We have done a lot within what is just about the environment and climate, for example. by changing the car charges, which is absolutely such that it is now profitable to buy cars that pollute less. It's been within the electric car system, for example. within the area in which the polluter should pay. Take, for example: within the farming sector. These include: of course to ensure that, in the event of evacuation from a farm, one must pay for the cleaning which must take place in such a setting. So there's a lot of ways to do it without using the tax slip on everyone, and I think we've also benefited very well when we've worked together over these four years. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Hareide for his good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1252	I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Nesvik for his good cooperation and to wish him every success. The representative, Nesvik, was very concerned with the question of preparedness in his speech, but most of the changes in the police appear, unfortunately, to be a mere centralisation, a kind of'remote police reform'. The most striking thing in this period has been the growth of the Police Directorate, which has doubled from 2013 to 2016. But preparedness is important, and it must be more about content and quality than it has done in this period. 20 pst. the country’s population is not currently subject to police demand for emergency response time, i.e. mission related to life and health. The centre party will propose to extend these requirements later today, so that the response time will apply to the entire population. My question is, Will the Advance Party support it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1261	The Progress Party, together with the rest of the government, has presented a very good budget proposal, and in recent years we have shown that we have just given priority to the police and preparedness. It's done through the conversion of the whole system. You do it, among other things. by involving more people in police work on the ground, i.e. training in the police, so that we can get closer to the population — and get to grips with this — and become more effective. Provision has been made to allocate funds directly to the police districts. In addition, you've made sure to label 100 million. SEK to, among others police cars and other equipment, just in order to become more effective. When the near-police reform begins to work – it will be fully developed and fully in place in 2020 – it will also ensure that we get more police out there where people live, in the districts, and we will not get the starvation that the police experienced under the red-green.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1268	A property the Progress Party has, and for which they got good use when they became a government party, is the ability to owe to others. When the representatives of the Progress Party are challenged in the child supplement for disabled dependants, who have hit many families very hard, the usual answer is that it was part of the miscarriage reform. But it wasn't. It was an active political choice that the Progress Party in the government, together with the Right and Cooperation Parties, chose to implement. There was nothing to do, but there was something you chose to do, and that means that over a year ago, 367 families were taken from an average of NOK 29 000 each, according to the government itself. It's a brutal cut against some of the most vulnerable people in society. Why was it so important for the Progress Party to implement this cut? And I'm asking why it was important for the Progress Party – I don't want to hear any excuses about past reforms that were about other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1275	The problem is that reforms actually affect the policies you come with, and it is also important that what we do is earmarked. It ensures that as much as possible of its own income can be lived. We have to make sure to have a policy for those who are disabled and who do not have their own income, that they have a good offer and opportunities to cope. And then it's the totality, through what you've added up to here now, that's crucial. It's about changes in minimum pensions, supplements and development, and there I think the government has provided a policy that is forward-looking. So it will always be that we have to look at different measures as things turn out, and that will also be considered in the future, but it is important that we have clear and targeted actions that help as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1283	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1288	This is the opportunity to look back, and it is important to look at what we promised the voters in 2013. Then the Christian People's Party said that a voice in the Christian People's Party was a voice to a simpler everyday life for family members and that we first saw the most vulnerable children. We said family and human dignity. Over these four years we see that there has been a red thread in our priorities. The Christian People's Party has invested in children, family, and human dignity. I want to point to some of the things we have achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1293	We've got an escalating plan to protect outlawed children. We know that in each classroom there are on average two or three children who have experienced serious assault or violence. The only hope these children have is that someone around them sees them and can do something. We therefore increased the appropriations in the budget to more than 500 million. NOK for this escalating plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1296	We have prioritised early efforts and systematic efforts on several teachers in school to ensure appropriate training, reduce the need for special education and prevent school drop-outs later. Bn. 1,3 kr has gone to get more teachers in 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th classes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1299	We've got an action plan for child psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1302	In the cooperation agreement, we were also given an assurance that early ultrasound would not be a public offer to all pregnant women. It was an important saying in the fight against the sorting society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1305	We got together, not least with the Left, in place a one-time solution for the long-term asylum children. What was impossible to achieve under the Labour Party regime, got us together with Right, the Progress Party and the Left. Mr. Arild Humlen has referred to the change that we are now out of an ice age when it concerns children's independent courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1308	I mean, the main steps that the Christian People's Party and the Left have been taking have been important. In 2014, we received a budget that was unsocial. We made it significantly more social. We stopped the government trying to send the largest bill for the refugee crisis to the world's poor. Together, the four cooperation parties in 2016 agreed to make the budget of the current climate budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1311	Another example is climate law, a proposal from the Christian People's Party came in the previous period, for which we have now received an impact. We are forced to reduce global emissions. We're not faced with dramatic and unbridled consequences. Through climate laws, which were adopted in the spring of 2017, we now have an important journey to reduce our emissions – a matter for the Christian People's Party, therefore, proposed in the previous period, and which we have now adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1314	The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) has increased the pension to a minimum of one-off pensioners in the 2016 budget by $4,000 plus $4,000, making a total of $8,000 more for the minimum pension list that has the least, the minimum single pension list. Many of them live below the EU poverty line.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1317	We've secured that we'll get the K back in the religious discipline. Someone wants to say it's a symbolic thing. Yes – I want to say it is an important symbolic matter. It's about what values we want to shape our society, and the Christian People's Party will make sure that the Labour Party and the Left's proposal to remove the K does not become a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1321	We have a certain reduction in taxes on wealth on working capital – ensure that we do not pay taxes on wealth when we participate in job creation. On the other hand, if we use the wealth of luxury, it must be taxes on wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1324	Christian People's Party received 6.5 pst. by votes in 2013. We thought we had been well paid through participation, and I believe that I have been good for Norway. But, of course, we want to move on. We'll bet on early school effort, with more teachers. We want to make everyday life easier for families. We don't want a society where people are selected or sorted out. We want living districts and active farmers all over the country. We do not want to hide the Christian values that shape our society. We want a policy for those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1327	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1332	Among other things, the representative Hareide took up values, and that's what I want to ask you. We are seeing more and more cases of elective extremism, and in recent years Europe has been the frame of several terrorist attacks, both in Copenhagen, Stockholm, Paris, London and Brussels, just to give some examples. History has shown that extremism exists within almost all religions and with various ideological foundations, both on the right and the left. In recent years it has been our particular Islamist extremism and, at the same time, a certain growth in the right-wing extreme power that has dominated the European threat picture. There's something that can cause people to worry, and an experience that we are in the midst of a campaign of values today. The most important answer is, of course, strong preparedness, availability of police and rapid response capabilities, but an important part of prevention is also the conversations we have about values and what we stand for in this country. My question is how the Christian People's Party as a religiously conscious and value-oriented party will contribute to these debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1337	I want to thank you for the good question. I think it's very important that we are aware that the debate we have is part of shaping the society we have. The representative Tajik said that the most important thing is what security and preparedness we have, but I think perhaps what is mentioned in the next sentence is even more important: prevention. With the last event we now see in London, we see that love, but also the evil, is fairly equally distributed, from different environments, and I don't think we should say that there is one environment that only stands for the evil. That's why we just have to be involved in building. I also mentioned from the pulpit, which I think is a part of it, when I say what values we have built our society on. The Christian values characterize our country. It's about next love, it's about human dignity, it's about trustworthiness. What I mean is good values we have to take with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1342	The representative Hareide and his party are usually referred to as so sought after a day, but when SV gets a line number. 2 on the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, it may indicate that the Christian People's Party is in some descending direction – we are waiting far behind in line. It is also related to what I intend to ask for. I have a great deal of understanding that the Christian People's Party needs to show what they've done – in cooperation with the Right is now one thing, but perhaps especially with the Advance Party. I want to praise the Christian People's Party for having gone ashore some important victories in what has certainly been tough negotiations, especially with the Progress Party. So I just want to ask: if there will be a new majority at the elections in the autumn – knocking on the table – will the Christian People's Party oppose correcting the unsocial and unfair cuts in the children's allowance for disabled dependants? And if the answer is no, does that not mean that the Christian People's Party has gone down in this matter during the period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1347	First of all, I want to say that it's a honor to get the Serigstad Valen as a replica no. 2 - one of the best replicators in the storage room. But to his question about the children's supplement: We helped improve the child supplement through the budget negotiations in the autumn of 2014. We got a lot of improvement, but we didn't get all the way to the goal. At the same time, it is also a challenge not to give people who are in social security better conditions than those who are in full employment. But the Christian People's Party took part in a proposal that SV came into this big room, that we should evaluate just this. Unfortunately, that proposal was not adopted by a mere majority. That means I'm very sorry, because there's something to know the consequences of that proposal. But we have also said that we are open to change that can make it even better, and we were also concerned about the effect already in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1354	I noticed that Serigstad Valen was so worried that Hareide would not get any lines, so I had to take some responsibility. I have several in stock, and the representative can choose to answer whomever he wants. Then it's line number. 1, which he can answer if he wants to. Christian People's Party representative Tuskedal said that the regional reform was a reform nobody really wanted – we got a solution no parties would have. Does Hareide agree? He may choose to answer, or he may answer question No. 2 – this is the last day. Yesterday, the Home Security intervention forces in Lake Home Protection in Hareide’s home district were laid down, and the weapons – this is the intervention force Salamander – were handed in, and the Christian People’s Party did not choose to add more money to Sjøheimewert’s alternative revised national budget. Does Hareide think it's wise that that readiness in the Sjöheimewert now disappears, and that 2,000 soldiers should bring in their weapons?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1361	I thought it was such a good line that I wanted to respond to both parts. We agreed with the Center Party against putting down the Sjöheimevertet, and the Left and Christian People's Party also secured 15 million. kr to continue the operation of the Sjöheimeverterung in 2017, so that it was possible to make a real reassessment after the election. Then I also see the developments that have taken place in the Sjöheimewert, which I think have been too dramatic – not least when we look at Homeland Protection, where the government has stopped after pressure. They haven't done the same for Maritime Protection. That's what I'm sorry for. When it comes to regional reform, I believe it is a step on the road – perhaps not towards the perfect, but it is not perfect as it is today. I believe in larger regions that get considerably more tasks. But as long as we don't get more tasks, we don't need bigger regions in itself. So the Christian People's Party's assessment is that happiness in getting more tasks for the regions must be the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1370	Replicate cord shift is over
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1375	As many speakers have pointed out, this is a sort of summary of the ageing period and thus a debate that is also much more than just the revisions of the revised national budget. It was a representative earlier, from the Progress Party, who said it plays some role who controls the country. In one area, I agree: it is that we have had a government that has had a completely systematic programme for centralisation of Norway. It has been systematic in areas by area. It has been systematic in terms of budget and economics, legislation and mechanisms. We've seen it in what we usually discuss: police, preparedness, municipalities, hospitals. We see it in the case of Nav and the tax office. But we also see it again in the budgets that this government has provided in the last four years: all the measures relating to rural policy or regional deforestation are consistently cut off from the government – small and large. Some of the most problematic thing about it, I think, is that during this period we have lost many debates that could be about quality and content. All debates – almost without exception – have been about large units being better. Just one gets stuffed together, it gets better. We have lost some of the debates we could have had on the quality and content of the service offered to people, on the welfare of people. I think the government at first might have thought that this centralization wave would go unattended – but it doesn't. People respond. They respond to an unwise centralisation, which neither contributes to better content nor to better welfare services for citizens. Nearly two thirds of the over 200 municipalities that had a referendum on the merger responded no in the referendum, because they believe it was not appropriate for their municipality – and for the welfare of their municipality. Only 4 pst. In a study from the University of Bergen, the police are saying that they do not believe that the so-called near-police reform will not contribute to centralisation. So they do not have the faith in the reform, they believe that the risk of centralisation is high. In the Heimevert and in the Defence — especially in North Norway — there is great frustration over closures and savings. When we point out the closure in the Center Party, we're called old fashioned – but we all know that it's largely about savings. It's not so strange that people might then see that there are alternatives to this one-sided centralisation policy. I have to take up some of the line I had with the representative Nesvik, because it's an important topic – and it's coming up in Stortinget later today. The question of the security and preparedness of citizens and the question of introducing a response time not only covering 80 pst. by the population of the country, but covering everyone in the country in terms of urgent tasks related to life and health. The response requirements that you have today are not good enough and not all. We in the Center Party therefore propose that they be expanded to include the entire population. On the other hand, we have had a big period when bureaucracy has increased – despite the fact that one had to expect the blue-blue parties to be very busy with it. There were more than 1 000 employees in the Departments and Directorates in 2016 than they were in 2013. This provides a significant additional cost, including: for the State. Government consumption as a share of GDP has also increased during the period. The representative Marianne Marthinsen mentioned earlier today that only the rail reform itself has led to an incredible growth in consulting expenses and in state bureaucracy. So a little bit about a proposal that the Center Party has – and that we have distributed here – about wolf. We register the touching care that many have for the farmers who have now lost many sheep to the wolves during the spring and summer. Our perception is that there is a result of a lack of will in winter to take out enough with wolves. We think it's possible to do something about it. Today, we give the parties the opportunity to do something about it through the proposal we have made, to ‘put standing permission to kill the wolf’. We hope that more people will see fit to join – not least those who have now visited the farmers in Hadeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1393	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1398	In Norway, we have traditionally had small differences between people, between women and men, and between cities and countries. The Labour Party has worked for a value creation across the country, so that we actually have values to divide between us. This is what characterises Norway, for the most important tasks will be solved in the community. The last four years have gone a lot in the wrong direction. Differences between people are increasing. The employment rate goes down. Norway is now to be sold and not developed. Taxes to the richest have gone up, and efforts for a better school and health have fallen. What does Arnstad's representative think is the most important job to reverse the negative development that we've seen in the last four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1405	I think the representative is very right that we have some important qualities in Norwegian society that we have to take care of. The quality is about Norway being a society with high confidence in the population. We're not going to take that for granted. It's not going to happen, and it's not going to happen in the years to come. I believe an important condition for maintaining trust in Norwegian society is that one has a balance – a balance between social and geographical in society, a balance where the differences between peoples do not become too large economically, and where one also rates across the country and sees the population across the country, values what they do with business activities, and also the welfare offers they demand around the country. I believe that focusing on a policy based on reduced differences and where a rate across the country is important. I've noticed that now it's so very popular to talk digitization. That's what I think is good, excellent, but the infrastructure for digitisation is absolutely crucial. Broadband for all is the basic condition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1410	Under this government, municipalities have improved their finances. More investment is being made in transport, twice as many government jobs are being moved into the districts, and fewer farms are being laid down than when the centre party was in government. Forestry, fishing and travel throughout the country has had record years. The police are now reporting that better organisation has given local presence, the response time decreases, and the clearance rate rises – quality over decentralised quantity. Nevertheless, in the revised budget, the Centre Party will reopen the Länsmannskontoret in the 72 municipalities that have complained of mergers. Nor were these staffed to operational level with the Centerpartiet in government in 2013. Can the representative Arnstad confirm that they will undermine the police reform by reopening all of these and perhaps provide a small estimate of how much it will cost to mannify all of them to operational level?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1417	I notice that the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party are not so much concerned with the last four-year period. On the other hand, they are very busy with the time before there again, preferably what happened eight years ago, ten years or twelve years ago. But in the last four years, we haven't heard much about it. The centre party is concerned that if we were to have the opportunity to come to the government offices, it would have to be a different direction. The big problem today is that part of what this government is proposing is going in the wrong direction. Police reform is an example of this. It's just a centralization, and you have to change your direction. Now it is not that open offices are a phenomenon that existed only before the Right introduced the police reform. 50 of those offices shall be retained and shall have an opening time between hours. 8 and 16 per day. Is this a bad office? Is it like you've made an arrangement with A- and B-politics? That's what I think Right should answer, instead of challenging us in the direction. We've been saying clearly from time to time that we need a different direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1424	After decades of growing maintenance kits, the trend has now turned around. All figures show that maintenance was a theme that the previous government didn't care much about. Why else would the Central Party have to ask a budgetary question this year about the development of the maintenance set-up in the years before the government change? Had the centre party been only a little interested in maintenance, they had followed developments closely. They would have known that the maturity increased. They had not even dared to ask the question, for they had been ashamed of the answer. Most farmers have a decent delivery gel, and it is that one should always leave the farm in better condition than when one took over. This isn't a delivery gel the Senterpart lives on when they're in position. They saw us in government. We see it in Troms, but we note that the Center Party is now adding a little more funds for increased maintenance of county roads in revised form. Does the representative Arnstad think that this is credible when, in her time as Minister for Transport, she strongly downgraded her priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1431	Then we're back: we're not talking about the last four-year period. No, we're talking about the time back again in history, sail if we're really going to sum up the last four-year period today. That's weird. At the same time, there is a seaworthy question asked by the representative. There was a strong growth in the whole road and rail sector while the red-greens were sitting, especially in the railway. I think one comes up in the 200-300 pst. course if one takes the railway bet. It is very good, the Central Party believes, that the national transport plan adopted in 2013 has been followed up by this government. We were a little uncertain because the Progress Party was so against tolls. We thought that maybe one would destroy part of the road projects by not accepting tolls. But it's fully accepted by the Progress Party, and we think that's good, because it's necessary to build part of the roads and the railway you're going to build in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1438	I listened with interest to the introduction to Arnstad, and one of the points she made was bureaucracy. I'm not going to talk about eight years ago, but about the next period, because when one reads the perspective message and sees the prospects we have, we go into tighter budget hours. I believe that one of the important steps we must succeed in is still cut in red tape and more efficient use of resources. It's an exposure that the Center Party shares. I listened to the NTP debate with great interest, and the Central Party also pointed out that it would be important. As far as I remember, the Center Party was against, for example. New Roads, which I think has become a very great success, so I'm excited about what the Center Party chooses to do with it if you want to get in position. Actually, my question is what the representative Arnstad thinks is the most important steps we have to take to make better use of the resources. What can be done to let go of well-being, but as one can solve in other ways?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1443	Firstly, I would like to make it clear that the Central Party decided at its national meeting that New Veger should be able to carry out its investment projects. So the representative doesn't have to be in any doubt about it. I think that is a good reason to go through the state bureaucracy in particular. The centre party has pointed to the growth of some directorates and departments, which I was in my post. We have also pointed to some of the things that the government has created, to which we have been critical, for example. this Governing Council appointed during the period. I think you have to go through it thoroughly and critically, because I think more of the money has to go to welfare and welfare offers and less to bureaucracy, especially at state level. Then I also want to mention that I believe that centralisation in itself produces bureaucracy. Instead of doing tasks locally with less resources, one will have to set up resources centrally and red tape to solve these tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1452	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1457	This is not only the day to discuss the revised national budget, but also to sum up a little – and someone to end it, but I don't intend to do that in any way. But I have after all been in this house for 16 years today and seen both majority governments and minority governments come and go. I've seen how it's been kind of mantra that you need majority governments to have power of action, you need majority governments to implement reforms, and you need majority governments to make big changes in society. I have to say that we have refuted in this period. Because we barely saw a reform in Norway the last time we had a majority government. Now we have implemented community reform, regional reform, police reform, child care reform, rail reform, road reform, work environment reform and a very large health reform. It is being reformed and amended in many areas. And we who are happy in the welfare state we have, we who are happy that we have strong welfare arrangements, must constantly be involved in reforming them, developing them, helping to find out how to tackle new challenges and developments in society. Then I see that there are many who dream back and will stop them, and want everything to be like it was before. But society goes on. Everything won't be like it was before. We are facing new challenges. Society is changing all the time. And those who are happy in the welfare state we have managed to build up must actually be willing to reform it, develop it, make sure that we reach those who need it the most, always, but also make sure that we have the momentum of a new economy, with new technologies and new opportunities, which means that we are involved in developing our society. One thing is at least clear to the sun, that as long as I've been sitting here, the left has never had as much influence as now. The 5.2 pst. who voted on the left last, has got an incredible amount for his voice. And we've kept what we promised we'd do when we went into this cooperation. We've gone from a break in research to a three-billion-billion-dollar bet. kr. It is a different tone when you visit the university and higher education sectors and research environments now than it was in the previous period. We have been given a business promise – all the arrangements we have made that we should manage to create more jobs, to facilitate more entrepreneurial activity. These include: as simple as social rights for those involved in the creation of jobs should be a little more equal to the rights of those receiving the job from others. It's an important step we've been taking, but it's still a lot like at least I'll fight for further into the next period. After many years when the school discussion was about fruit or hot food, where the school discussion was about the framework of the school, we have actually got the teacher promise some of us have been fighting for for for many years, with a triple in continuing education for teachers. It's going to have consequences in the future. We've got a baby hail that's made sure that over 50,000 kids, those who need it all the most, get free core time, get cheaper kindergarten, get the start of life they need in order to take advantage of the social mobility that actually exists in Norwegian society. We received eleven months of student support, and we have built many new student homes. It's also social cohesion. There are people who think that all social cohesion is going above the social security budget. No, one of the most important social cohesions we do in society is to give all kids an equal start, so they get to develop their potential, so they get to be what they want to be, and that they get to use the potential that lies within them. It's one of the important tasks for us at Stortinget. Now the government has also submitted a climate report, and I must say it would have been very different if it had not been for the left. It could have been a short twitter message. All the measures that lie there have been achieved through budgetary negotiations – sometimes with blood, sweat and tears, but sometimes also through the fact that we have found the good breaks between us. And it's obvious that if it hadn't been for the Left, the Lofoten and the West Pole would have been expanded now. Now SV has stopped it twice, the Left and Christian People's Party has stopped it twice, and we want to do it again. We said we'd get a lot. We've managed to get a lot. It has sometimes been a bit tougher fight than we should really want, but at least we don't want to go back.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1477	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1482	This is the day for both summarizing and looking forward. The left is the party in the Stortinget that makes sure that the Right Party and the Progress Party have their policies implemented. It's a little hard to figure out whether the Left Leader is satisfied with his budget friends or not, because on March's question about cooperation with the Right and the Progress Party, the Left Leader said that she wanted the Left to force itself into government – a blue-green government without the Progress Party. This week the beep has received a slightly different sound. At NTB on 15 June, we can read that the Left wants – or goes a long way in suggesting at least – to support the sitting government after the election. So my question is, what are the voters going to do when it comes to budget cooperation for the house? I think there's a lot to say for the Left voters where you're going to vote on a government with the Progress Party, or if it's so that the Left insists that they want a blue-green government without the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1487	When I hear the Workers' Party talk about cooperation, I understand why they always eat up those they sit in government with, because there's little respect for diversity. But it is clear that there are two government options on the civil side. On the red-green side, there's an incredible amount of different government options, and there's no idea what the voters are. I think the voters can relate to the fact that there are two alternatives on the civil side, but we're going to cooperate, we're going to talk. I think everyone understands that the Left is running an important electoral campaign to secure a civil majority in the Stortinget. Then we need a strong Left, a strong Left that stands on both for the environment, for small businesses, for enterprise and for school – which is going to be our bet, as it has been in this period. We are not at all in the goal of creating jobs or raising the school in Norwegian policy. We're ready to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1492	I almost said, we've been fighting together for four years now, and sometimes the Left and the Advance Party get the worst in both parties, but very often we find good solutions. National transport plan is a very good example of a common project: clear priorities, sufficient funding, car charges mentioned earlier in the line change, where we have got a lot. According to Trine Skei Grande's opinion, what is the most important thing we've done in these four years – not despite the Progress Party, but because of the cooperation between the four parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1497	I think that NTP is a very good example of that breakage – we actually get something constructive. We have achieved a very good and good NTP, which is also quite large and ambitious. But we don't fool with money, as we see many other parties do in the hall when they're going to budget here. We have the biggest railway effort since the Left had a clean majority here and invested in the Bergensbanen, while we see that some of the other parties we're going to run election campaigns against tell us that their lives last they put in government were about an eternal struggle against the railway. Liv Signe Navarsete says that her entire life as a Minister of Transport was about to fight against money coming to the railroad. I have experienced a completely different tone in the Progress Party. In fact, they have realized that building good railway infrastructure where necessary is an important key to tackling transport design for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1502	The left has taken on being government support wheel No. one and the government's leading supporting party after all. That's the whole election strategy. The Left and the Centre have had quite different views on immigration policy in the last four years. Where the Left has almost blocked opportunities to get a responsible policy, the Center Party has been an active driver for it. My question to Trine Skei Grande is: when Skei Grande has become the leading support party of the Progress Party, will the Left as a supporting party become a liberalisation of immigration policy in the next period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1507	It's sometimes hurting by the wall, as I see that the center part beats one way or the other. I remember Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, who was really involved in fighting for a humane refugee policy. The Centre Party is now competing to be beyond the Advance Party in asylum and refugee policy. What we've been fighting for are children. We've been fighting for kids to be treated properly. They mean that the vast majority of the long-term children that the Workers' Party was supposed to throw out in the last period, we've made sure to stay. But we've also provided wise restraints. But some of the intrusions about children, where the Center Party has been fighting with the Advance Party about being at the extreme, we have not agreed. We've been involved in a lot of tightening up this period that's wise and sensible in relation to the challenges we're facing, but the Left is always going to fight for the kids. We're going to fight for the kids to be treated fairly. We're going to fight for kids to also have the human rights that we've actually agreed on. Then it is shameful to see that the centre party competes for lying on the edge of the case as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1514	Can the Left really support that the Progress Party has government power for an entire growing period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1519	My driving force in politics is to have policies implemented. My driving force in politics is about raising Knowledge Norway. It's about combating poverty among kids, making sure that everyone gets the same start. It's about addressing the climate challenges we're facing. Then we would like to spend time driving the black cars, but I am concerned about what those in the black cars are forced to do. We're going to use our power to implement policies. It's politics that are driving together, not if you like the whim on one or the other. So I'm going to fight for those things. These are the things I'm going to fight for in the election campaign that we're going to get done. Then someone gets to keep up the game about who's going to sit here and there. I wish for a blue-green government. That's what I'm going to fight for the whole campaign. If I get to that, I'm going to fight for the things that we're actually going to have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1524	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1529	The diversity of power and wealth is increasing in Norway. What we have to deal with today is another difference between the blue government. There is another misuse of the opportunity to rectify the political decisions taken by the government, which will reinforce the differences. One could, for example: used this opportunity to settle the social security situation of Stortinget and to do something about developments that have led older people with low pensions to lose purchasing power while at the top of the Norwegian community they have more to live on. Instead, the government chooses to give tax cuts that do not go to those who have the least. One might think that this could be an opportunity to implement measures for children in poor families, which the bourgeois parties talk a lot about, but also this time without wanting to do anything to actually give the poorest families more to live off. One might imagine that one would use this opportunity to correct some of the injustices of the tax system that have arisen over those years with bourgeois rule. Instead, we see that under the pretext of wanting to support entrepreneurs, there are new tax cuts that make those who have the most get another chance to pay a little less. Today’s Businesses understood the same as SV and asked the Minister of Industry when presenting this proposal if the last tax reliefs were not ‘a method for rich people to escape tax into the community’. Then the Minister for Industry said: ‘Whether rich or poor investing in a company, they must be treated in a non-discriminatory manner. If nationals want to invest in start-up companies, I'll cheer it up." So what poor people, the least in Norwegian society, have got, is an opportunity to be treated in the same way when they invest in start-up companies. I think it brings joy from the end of the day to the end of the country for disabled, unemployed and social clients. Finally, they shall be treated in a non-discriminatory manner when buying shares. Where you sit, decide where you stand – it determines which perspectives you focus on, and which groups in the society you put the most emphasis on. This government sees the needs of the economic elite in the country most clearly and clearly. It also shows the figures we have obtained in advance of this debate, which shows the results of the rigging of the tax system this government has implemented for the economic elite. The richest prom in the country has received 264 500 kroner on average in tax bills. The fifty percent, with at least NOK 2000. The bill for this tax liability is among other things: sent to the disabled, who have experienced various cuts, cut into housing support and cut into underprivileged dependants. It has been sent to single-parents who have had poorer support schemes, to multi-disabled and chroniclers who have had increased prostheses, to unemployed people who have lost their holiday money, and to older people with low pensions who have had to tighten up their lifeline. The list is long. If the differences increase today, we'll have a colder society tomorrow. The development of inequality is not about statistics. It's about families who don't know how to pay the next bill. It's about children who don't get to be part of the other child's experience. It's about people with a full job who still can't afford to buy a place to live. It is about young people who get nothing but a temporary job. It's about children who don't bring food at school, or who come without having the help with the homework that other kids get. It's about people in our coastal communities who see that quota barons and shipowners get a greater share of the resources, while the communities that have always lived on the fish get less. There's been a lot of talk about inequality over the past few weeks. I am very pleased that the big parties are coming after us, and I agree that the fight against inequality must be a big thing in this election campaign. But we want to test the different parties today. Is it rhetoric, or is it political action? SV promotes 30 proposals that will work against inequality, which are about a real boost to child welfare, about reversing — yes, it is allowed to say when the proposals are bad — the cuts to disabled dependants, about correcting the tax system so as to contribute to lower disparities, about doing something about social dumping and temporaryity in working life, about meeting the increasing unemployment with a youth guarantee that can really work for young people who are unemployed, and about investments in the communities that need it. It's time for change. This budget does not give it, but the choice for the autumn shall give it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1556	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1561	I've had the pleasure of sitting on the committee with the representative Audun Lysbakken, and it's been a pleasant experience. What I'm asking is whether SV's party leader and his party want to sit in government or prefer to sit in opposition. He has experience with both.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1568	First of all, I would like to say that there has been good cooperation, which we have also used to make some clear common red-green commitments, for example. as regards the need for a trust reform at school, which was addressed recently, and which shows the country's teachers and parents that getting a majority together will make a real positive change for the school. SV wants power after the choice. We're ready to go into a government. We're also ready to sign another form of cooperation agreement, if we find that this is the best option. But in any case, we are ready to cooperate with the Workers' Party, with the Centre Party, with those parties that want change. And of course, we're committed to ensuring that the Aasen party has to cooperate with SV. This can help the voters by making SV so strong that we have a good negotiating position when we meet for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1577	After eight years of government SV, the Norwegian economy went from full gas to half speed during the autumn of 2013, and unemployment was increasing. According to the SSB, the entire employment growth in the last four years SV put in government, went to foreign labour, which LO’s then vice-president Stein Reegård thought forced Norwegian. During the eight years of the Swedish government, the number of poor children increased, and hospital cows increased, despite the fact that SV had more tax revenue through inheritance taxes, higher property taxes, higher taxes on persons and companies, and more taxes. If more taxes provide more well-being and more jobs, how does the representative Lightbaken explain the results of his own government: reduced economic growth, increasing unemployment, increasing hospital cows and more poor children? And how does the representative think that increased tax expenditure will help create jobs that finance our important welfare state in the future, as SV adds in revised terms?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1584	This, I think, was creative story. So when SV had the Minister of Finance, we got through the big financial crisis with Europe's lowest unemployment, thanks to a targeted policy to invest in getting the wheels around. It worked, and it worked. It is that during our time in government, the tax system was changed in the opposite way of what is going to happen under this government, so it helped to counteract the differences. The numbers are striking when we compare what is now presented by this government, with what was the result after the eight red-green years. So it's the way I would be careful when it comes to the debate on economic development, if I were from one of the majority parties, because what we're now seeing for the development of the Norwegian economy is that investment in jobs is falling, investment in housing has increased, a tax system has been created, one has stood and looked at a development where it becomes more attractive for young businessmen to buy homes than to invest in jobs, and it's not healthy for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1591	We know that many in business demand lower taxes. There the government has delivered: we have lowered company taxes and property taxes, introduced valuation discounts for shares and operating resources, introduced a system to ensure that owners of companies that are economically struggling may be subject to the tax on wealth, notified tax deductions on investments in start-up enterprises and changes in option tax. SV used to point out, as we also heard from the pulpit instead, that there are tax concessions to the rich. In the revision, they now ask the government to propose to distort the tax system from subsidising investment in property to investment in machinery and technology and to increase productivity and create more jobs. That's what this government has been doing for four years, while we've given ordinary families and pensioners taxes. What kind of tax system is what SV sees for this type of investment to take place, without a tax on ordinary people?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1598	I am glad that the representative Svendsen said ‘point’ and not ‘claim’ for the figures that are now on the table, because the government parties also have to admit very clearly that at the top of the Norwegian community they have got a lot of money, while ordinary workers almost have not got anything. After all, this is not least an explanation problem for the Progress Party, which has been fighting for elections with the penetrating slogan 'for the most people'. Now the Progress Party may have to add ‘rich’ in parentheses in front of ‘people’. What we want is to transform the tax system so that it contributes to better distribution and increased productivity. We have a tax proposal that will give lower taxes than the Advance Party has created, to anyone who earns less than NOK 600 000 in Norway. So the Progress Party has an explanation problem, because there's nothing to suggest that the big tax cuts have given rise to increased productivity. So you can't keep saying that when you have no proof of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1605	I'm going to be so straightforward with the representative Lysbakken that I'm going to ask questions about one of his favorite questions, the terrible welfare professionals. But when we discuss it, it becomes a lot different. There is something I do not understand, and I never get an answer to that question from SV, and now I have to get it. Why is it possible to spend public money on people when they are “founding” things, that they should be able to take out profits – when they run IT companies, brewers, garbage companies, road construction, whatever, it's okay for men to make money – while ladies who are “founders” in the public sector are not allowed to take out profits on what they do? Why does SV distinguish between female and male professions when providing services to the public?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1610	The representative Skei Grande is absolutely right that it's one of my favorite questions. That is because we have such good answers, and I think the Left is missing the same thing. Firstly, it is not that the representative Skei Grande has been able to demonstrate that the welfare benefits mainly go to women. There are no numbers that show it -- no, it doesn't. What we see, on the contrary, is that in the welfare state, ownership is increasingly concentrated in some large groups, for example. the development of the field of child protection. It should worry the Left, which has helped to build a welfare model with a large number of not least private non-profit actors, which is now being squandered. Secondly, I believe it is quite obvious that care for children, the provision of good child protection services or reception services, is something other than incubation. There are some tasks that are suitable for a market in a much better way than others. Care tasks that are fully publicly funded do not.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1619	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1624	First of all, I would like to thank good committee colleagues. It has been nice and effective to be a member of the Financial Committee. I was also going to say thank you to the finance minister, but she's not here right now. It has happened that we have disagreed, to put it mildly, but we have cooperated well when appropriate. All indications are that in the years ahead we are facing a lack of specific professional competence, both in the private and in the public sectors. In some sectors, the need for skills enhancement is already precarious. In the care sector, more and more advanced welfare technologies are emerging. The construction industry has an increasing use of unskilled labour, and over time we have experienced a particularly weak productivity development. Good skills are essential for creating more jobs and exploiting the opportunities and needs of the future – yes, for the country’s competitiveness. Then it is a pity – actually strange – that the government is not putting more emphasis on empowerment. They have simply spared us badly. Now there is a real need for a lift of competences, but the Progress Party – Right-Registration has unfortunately used up a lot of the space for action to tax cuts in advance of a time when an ageing population is growing. The working party has higher ambitions. The way to go more in common is through more knowledge as a basis for increased value creation and new growth. Everybody's coming along, we say. It's about so much, not least that as much as they can learn what they need to be able to participate in the world of work. Only two out of three professionals undertake initial training. Over the next five years, hundreds of new vocational teachers are needed, and good vocational teachers are the most important single factor for good learning. The working party will have an initial training package for vocational teachers who work in secondary school but do not meet the requirements for permanent employment. By the end of 2015 almost 9 000 young people were without an apprenticeship contract and were unable to complete their vocational training. That's why the number of learning places needs to be increased. The Workers' Party proposes to increase the apprenticeship allowance so that it is equal to the cost of one year of vocational training at school. The working party proposes a grant of 132 million. in addition to the Government's proposals in this area. At the same time, we need to increase the number of enterprises taking in apprentices. We want to put in an extra effort towards the industries and the most remote regions, and to facilitate the use of more flexible schemes, such as apprentice rings, where more than one enterprise combines to provide the apprentice with comprehensive training. The development of vocational schools is important in increasing the competence of sectors where a large proportion of employees are unskilled and in order to create more opportunities for development and career paths for these professions. The provision of vocational education is developed in close contact with the labour market and experiences increased numbers of applicants. The Workers' Party will establish 1 000 new post-secondary school places during a three-year period, and proposes in the RNB for 2017 a grant that could provide 300 new post-secondary school places. At the same time, applicants for higher education are at a historically high level, and unemployment is high. Several places of study are an investment in the industries, technology development and the skills of the welfare state. In the 2017 RNB, we propose to set up 1 000 new study places in addition to the government's proposals. Youth must be given a clearer priority in the Nav system. Here, too, we have higher ambitions and more money than the government in our proposal to get young people into work. The Labour Party will also facilitate the use of wage subsidies as labour market measures to a much greater extent than at present. Cooperation between employers, employees and relevant language training, vocational training or other training authorities is required. It is a pity that the government parties and the cooperation parties are voting down the proposals that I have mentioned here, and several other good proposals that would increase both competence and value creation. The interaction between working life and educational institutions is becoming increasingly important in a working and social life with a growing need for broad competences. The ability to change often requires good basic knowledge and lifelong learning, and is important for the ability to remain in the labour market when changes occur. Well-trained permanent workers and enterprises that contribute to the training of skilled workers are an important basis for our competitiveness. That is why the Labour Party wants a reform of labour skills, and therefore we are going far more offensively to work than the government with our proposal here in the revised National Budget for 2017 – because it is urgent to get on the offensive. The Workers' Party will be a powerful engine for empowerment, increased value creation and good welfare services across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1663	Freedom goes down, growth goes up, and more jobs are created. This is good, and it shows that today's majority has a policy that responds to the challenges facing Norway and that many people experience in their everyday lives. It shows that the Right and Government policies work in good cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left. I think that the submissions from these parties today show a wide range of good results and a coherent view of a good climate of cooperation between these parties. This is the eighth budget we have agreed on on the civil side, and it shows that the majority has both the ability and the will to find good solutions for the country. During this ageing period, there have been particularly two events that have had a major impact on the Norwegian economy and on our budgets. One is the refugee crisis and the influx of asylum seekers who got into the wake of it. The second is the severe fall in the oil price. In June 2014 – three years ago – the oil price was over 115 dollars per barrel. In six months, this price was halved. It is clear that it has major and serious consequences for an oil nation such as Norway. Both parts have required a powerful government and solutions that work, and both parts have been handled in a good way. Since 2013, the number of direct employees in the oil and gas industries has decreased by more than 20 pst. This corresponds to almost 50000 persons employed. For a large oil economy such as Norway, it was important to meet that challenge with both short-term and long-term instruments – the short-term ones to keep the wheels going for a demanding time, the long-term ones to make sure that a shift is made to get more legs on the way forward that can generate jobs, value creation and tax revenues for our country. The short-term response from the Right, the Government and our cooperation parties has been large and well-functioning action packages to the areas of Norway with the highest unemployment rates, namely in the south and west. These have been important to keep the wheels running and ensure work for many. As far as long-term work is concerned, there has been a massive focus during this ageing period on key growth factors such as knowledge, competence and research, and there has been a large-scale deployment of infrastructure to give us larger housing and labour market regions and to ensure that goods come faster and more efficiently to the markets. We have given large tax havens to businesses as well as to individuals, including on the property tax – which we might rather call ‘the special tax that is in Norwegian ownership of Norwegian jobs and that we know that non-resident owners are free’. We see no reason for such a favoritism of foreign ownership. Fortunately, we are now reducing the tax on working capital, through a valuation discount on this part of the property tax. I am pleased that the four cooperation parties are so clear on the objective of further reducing and phasing out taxes on wealth on working capital. Right will create more, not more treasure. Both the government's proposal for a revised national budget and the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left here in Stortinget, support conversion and growth in the Norwegian economy. The large amount of money in the budget is spent on building more roads and railways, they are used to strengthen efforts against youth unemployment and long-term unemployment and to provide entrepreneurs with better framework conditions. In the revised national budget, we strengthen efforts to combat unemployment by increasing the supply of labour market measures by 500 places, by strengthening the follow-up to the long-term unemployed, and by increasing the youth effort of jobseekers under 30 years of age. Several have mentioned inequality in this debate. Norway is a homogeneous society, and we are among the countries in the world with least differences. Right will preserve a society with little differences between people. That's why we're working for children to learn more at school and to give more people a foot into the world of work. In this discussion, it is important to focus on what is primarily the cause of inequality in Norway, and it is whether a person has a job to do, or whether a person is outside the labour market, where the greatest division between people is currently taking place. If we're going to fight inequality, we have to make sure that as much as possible has a job to do. Then there's no rhetoric that matters, there's actual results. The government is delivering. Since 2013, we have created about 80,000 jobs in Norway, 60,000 of them in the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1688	I want to see this period a little bit in a four-year perspective. It has contained oil price falls, followed by high coastal unemployment, especially from Kristiansand to Kristiansund. We experienced a migration crisis at the end of 2015 that we had to deal with, which has resulted in the lowest asylum rate since 1997. With this as a backbone, we have practised a policy that stimulates growth and prosperity through four fiscal years and in the context of the revised budget. Our policy is safe economic governance, not just in words, but in reality. The main lines pursued by the Progress Party, both in this revised budget and in previous budgets, have been to stimulate the Norwegian economy through tax incentives, through good targeted investments, through simplification and through targeted welfare measures. We are concerned about how we spend the money on behalf of the taxpayers. We have implemented important reforms because we believe the most important thing is not how much money is spent, but how it is spent. That's why we've started the railway reform, which costs a little bit of money to get going, but which is going to bring savings in the long term. That is what we see when we follow how New Veger has become. It also cost money to start, but already now they expect savings of up to 30 billion. kr, and they can build their portfolio of 12 years instead of 20 years. I registered that the representative Gahr Støre said that if they are able to achieve cost reductions of up to 30 p.m., they can start many of the projects they have promised in connection with NTP. Why, then, did they vote against Nye Veier, who has made such an improvement in efficiency? Then I registered that the representative Arnstad said in reply that tolls will be used to build both road and railway in the years that come. So while the Progress Party is working to reduce tolls, the Senter Party promises on the contrary that tolls will now also be used for railway construction. That clarification probably appreciates the chosen ones. We stimulate people to work a little bit more by demanding a little less from taxpayers. We think private, ideal and individual family can manage their money better than Jonas Gahr Støre can on their behalf. We think each of us makes other and wiser choices if we get to keep more of our own income and manage it ourselves. Therefore, we have lowered the tax level so that a self-employed person pays NOK 12 000 less in taxes in 2017 than in 2013. An average pensioner pays about NOK 3000 less in taxes than when we took over, and an average family now pays approx. $8,000 less in taxes a year. We stimulate investment in Norwegian business by making it a little more profitable to drive from Norway. We invest in the road, in the railways, in new equipment, in new building mass in health care and in the police. These are important measures to improve the Norwegian economy. The question now is whether we have used well in the last four years to equip the Norwegian economy for the future. We've been running in troubled waters, with a falling oil price and a migration wave that took a lot, but all reports now indicate that things are going better. The arrows point straight: the availability goes down, the optimism is back, more and more business leaders are now warning about increased profitability, better turnover and that they will hire more people in the coming year. Finally, I would like to make one final point that is important to us in the Progress Party. It's the pensioners. With the grip that is being revised, we've been strengthening the economy of pensioners for four years. We have reduced the curtailment in the pension of married and cohabiting pensioners, which means that they get $8,000 more per year. This is a grip that benefits 650 000 pensioners. We have on two occasions adopted an increase of NOK 4000 for lone minimum pensioners. An average pensioner pays NOK 3000 less in taxes in 2017 than he/she did in 2013. The party of progress is the only party that opposed the underregulation of the pension, and we are the only party that will remove the unfair curtailment of married and cohabiting pensioners. Now a new choice is approaching, and for those who are concerned about getting the pensioners a little more liberal everyday life, the choice is simple: the bigger Progress Party will be at the election, the greater the impact we will have in our fight to strengthen the pensioners' economy in the next major period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1711	The issue of RNB today marks the end of four years of treatment of economic policy in our country. The impression left behind after these years is that there is a broad political consensus on the economic objectives, with some exceptions, of course. It seems that we can look forward to the future. Now it's probably so that none of us really know the future. Some of us have grown up at a time when we had not heard of the oil in the sea, and we could not imagine what adventurous economic development Norway would experience. The known facts, such as that we have a well-educated population, still large natural resources and solid government finances, will help us to look positively at the future, but this condition, among other things, is. that we must create safe jobs, and we must have a competitive business. As someone who has his professional experience in private business, I would like to emphasise this. The jobs, the jobs, in the private sector are not created by the public as such, but the policies that are pursued mean a lot for what businesses do. The policies in the fields of transport, taxation and other industrial policy framework conditions strongly contribute to the creation of the private sector and generate revenues back to society. Here's reason to point out the good cooperation we have with the social partners. The way they've done the payroll business, there's all reason to praise. In addition, the overall relationship between the parties is very good. In extending this, there is reason to clarify that all of us who can stand longer in the workplace. Introducing six-hour days, some of which have been called for, is obviously not the way to go. We must not weaken the competitiveness and hence the basis for funding welfare services. In the RNB, minor but important changes are proposed, including: a tax incentive scheme for investments in start-ups and the possibility of an improved pension saving. There is a relatively broad political consensus on these measures. During this four-year period, taxes have been reduced by about 22.3 billion net. kr. This has benefited people most and not least parts of business. The tax settlement means that there is much consensus in the major tax cases, but there is some disagreement about the level. It is claimed that the reliefs given have not led to any growth in the number of jobs and that there has been no impact on investment. Maybe you can turn around a little bit and ask what kind of development this would have been like if you hadn't done those reliefs. I'm going to have to get into the property tax once again. After a while, most people have understood that if you want us to have a private Norwegian company ownership, you have to do something about the taxes of Norwegian owners. We know all the things, so I'm not going to repeat these here, but it's interesting to observe in cross-political assemblies that when representatives of these private owners actually tell them about the problems and effects of the wealth tax on them personally, and the consequences this has for employment and job creation, the representatives of the red-green look down. We rarely meet some of them, who think wealth taxes on working capital are a good thing, and with the prospect that taxes will be up by 15 billion. kr, including a significant increase in the current property tax, if there is a political shift in the election, you can imagine how popular it is. In the context of the consultations in the Financial Committee on the Perspectives and the RNB, many positive opinions have been expressed on the policies of the government and the majority of the population. One of the areas that have been highlighted by many is the clarification that social change should not be delayed – the transformations that are necessary to maintain our prosperity. It is clear that the reforms adopted must not be halted or, for that matter, reversed. Civil policy has produced good results and should continue. If there is a civil majority in the fall elections, civil policy will continue as well. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1734	After the presidential elections in the United States and before the elections in the Netherlands and France in ours, many thought that the right-wing populist parties would win the elections in Europe as well. Causes highlighted were increasing inequality, migration and the lack of confidence that the political and economic elite could provide opportunities for those outside work and education to participate. Neither in the Netherlands nor in France did these right forces emerge. In France Macron won with his movement 'A Marche!', a social-liberal centre party to restore confidence in politics and democracy. But very low turnout, especially among young people, is a warning about the opposite, that trust and hope are not restored. The challenges of economics and working life are too great. For the autumn there is a choice in Norway. There is not as much focus on right-wing populism and trust crisis here. In March, Norway was named the world’s happiest country. The explanations used include, inter alia: high levels of trust between people, care, freedom, social support, etc. Nevertheless, there are also warning lights in Norway: differences in income have increased from 1992 to 2005, and the share of persistent low income has again begun to rise. Differences are also increasing in Norway. This has been pointed out by the Labour Party in recent years, while government representatives have devalued it. The Prime Minister, on the other hand, started the election campaign a week ago by claiming that the Right has the solutions in the fight against inequality. This must mean that the Prime Minister is concerned and recognises that inequality is an increasing problem in Norway. It can be seen as nothing more than a four-year sentence on the government itself — a recognition that government policies have led to increasing differences. The largest economic divide in Norway today is between those inside and those outside the labour market. It is worrying that the proportion of the population employed is the lowest in 20 years. Employment among young people was the lowest in 2016 at the age of 20 and more young people are permanently excluded from the labour market. For them, it helps little that the Right Party and the Advance Party here today sum up four years to focus on small and large issues that they have prioritised, for the direction of the policy that has been led by the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, clearly points towards a society with greater differences and less community. Why should they believe in a Prime Minister from the Right who now, after four years, puts inequality on the agenda? The Labour Party believes that work is the key to a safe society with opportunities for everyone. Work and competence to master a changeable working life give independence to individuals. It is crucial for the integration of immigrants and equality between men and women, and it is essential to address inequalities. The Labour Party therefore promoted a number of proposals in our 2017 alternative state budget directly aimed at getting people to work, especially the young and disabled. There are hardly any new jobs created in the private sector in Norway today, and the Workers' Party has therefore promoted more proposals in our 2017 alternative government budget to facilitate the creation of new jobs. The community's taking co-responsibility for getting people to work underpins the confidence we have in our society that the community is setting up. The warning lights for increasing inequality must be taken seriously. The Labour Party has done that throughout the entire period, and we will do that in the future. The Prime Minister says she now has the solutions in the fight against inequality. I don't believe that. Finally, this is the last time I stand on this platform, and I therefore want to thank everyone for the cooperation, both the finance minister, the finance committee and everyone else I have worked with here. I've got new friendships and new acquaintances over these twelve years. I would also like to wish all those who are going to continue, and all those who are going to do something completely different, happiness to go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1757	‘The government’s objective is a safe and flexible labour market that ensures low unemployment and high employment. A well-functioning labour market is essential for each one to realize his dreams and ambitions, and that it will pay off to work." This is what we write in the government platform. Securing people a job is the most important thing we can do to make sure that people can support themselves and to reduce inequality. The government has had to deal with a significantly different labour market development than the one we saw before when we made the cooperation agreement. The fall in oil prices helped to increase the decline in the employment rate that started with the financial crisis in 2008. The government has led an expansive and powerful policy to limit the negative development from the oil price drop. Recent statistics and industry's own assessments now show that most of the negative consequences of the downturn are behind us. Optimism is back. Both the registered unemployment rate and the AKU unemployment rate are falling. The last year, from May 2016 to May 2017, has the number of vacancies in all the counties of the country. The proportion of persons employed in the population has fallen since 2008. It is worrying for those outside the labour market, but also for the financing of the welfare state. Now we see good signs that the economic cycle has turned upside down, and then we can also expect that the growth in employment will rise in the future. Nevertheless, not all are able to enjoy the improvement of the labour market and the fall in unemployment. For many young people are neither at work nor in education, and too many are unemployed for a long time. The Government therefore proposes, in the revised national budget, a further strengthening of labour market policy. The government increases the level of labour market measures by 500 in the second half of 2017. Placing will strengthen training and training to qualify unemployed persons and persons with disabilities and help reduce ports at risk of long-term unemployment. The government is strengthening the youth effort by 32.5 million. kr. Youth efforts, introduced this year, mean that job seekers under 30 years of age who, after eight weeks of unemployment, are not in work, education or other activity, are offered individualised follow-up. The means shall be used to build up Nav's capacity to operate an enhanced follow-up of young unemployed people throughout the country. The government strengthens the follow-up of those who have been unemployed for a long time by 18.6 million. to provide cash recipients with a short period of time left of the daily allowance period, closer and better follow-up. The longer the time off, the more danger of permanent exclusion increases. Therefore, an extra effort is important to help this group. Labour market measures will continue to be one of several relevant instruments of transition to work. The most important measure is early intervention, preventing long-term unemployment. The AKU unemployment rate was 4.6 pst. in April, according to new figures that came today. The AKU unemployment went down at the turn of the year, but has now gone up a little. Several are now reporting on the labour market. This may indicate increased optimism, although in the short term there is a slight increase in unemployment. We also see a cautious increase in employment since the beginning of the year. It's positive. So the new numbers from AKU don't change the image that we have of the holiday stop behind us. During this period of government, we have provided budgets that have promoted work, activity and conversion, in line with the objectives of the government platform. Challenges such as falling oil prices and falling employment have been met with targeted and strong instruments. The improvement we see in the labour market means that government policy works. Some groups are still vulnerable, so we propose targeted action against these groups in our revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1782	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1787	I registered in the media here a while ago that the Council of State was out and said that unemployment figures caused the Workers' Party to break its election case unemployment. That, I think, is quite clarifying how the Council of State views the major challenge of unemployment. For our part, we have been concerned with unemployment at each budget and each audited and a number of other issues that have been dealt with in this Chamber, throughout the four-year period. It's not something we consider to be an electoral campaign, as I understand the Council of State is doing. The fact is, after four years of this government, it has stabilized, and as the Council of State said, to a certain extent itself, with a slight rise today in unemployment. But the most worrying thing is that the proportion of people in work has fallen. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: Isn't the Council of State concerned when we see fewer people employed, who have been in this situation until now, and the number of people employed is falling?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1792	As I said in my main post, the decline in the employment share was also a challenge. It has fallen from 2008 until now. It's stabilized lately. Some half of the decline is caused by an increase in the older population — in 1946, after all, 70 years of age — and by an increase in immigration, but also by a number of young people choosing to train. The last thing is positive in isolation — that more young people choose it — because we see that many of those who have lost their jobs are young people who do not have education. But now employment is also increasing. Today’s AKU figures showed that 13 000 more people have been employed in the last few months, and the population is also increasing. With the optimism we now see in business, that more and more people report that they need to hire, there is also reason to believe that the employment rate is going to improve, but it has now also flattened out in the last few months.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1797	This government has noted that when they announced that unemployment would rise long before the oil price fell, they reduced the number of labour market measures and tightened the rules of leave. It's the first time in our history that we've had a government that's done something like that. The finance minister invited to make a summary of this four-year period. Does the Council of State itself see that some of the measures taken early in the period, which were thus to challenge an active policy for increased employment, were wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1802	The fact that the country was facing great need for conversion was no doubt the case. It had been a long time, and it was something the current government parties also warned against in the run-up to the 2013 election campaign, but I think there were few who could predict the challenges we were facing when the oil price suddenly fell. 50,000 people have lost jobs in the oil and gas sector since 2014. The government has increased the number of labour market measures in recent years, we also strengthen it in the revised budget by 500 posts, as well as that we now have increased efforts towards young people, because they are particularly vulnerable, but also to the long-term unemployed, who are also particularly vulnerable. So we take important steps, we've done it in the last budgets with action packages, offensive budgets to make transition, to make rapid growth, and now we see the results. Unemployment goes down, optimism goes up in business, and the economy is also growing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1810	There's room for another line, if that's what Andersen is trying to ask for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1815	Yes, because then I would like to ask about something the Council of State did not talk about, but which has been a central theme during this period, and which is a central theme of the revised budget we have to deal with. Measures against social dumping are concerned. One matter the Council of State has highlighted is strong opposition to all the proposals put forward by the opposition to social dumping. One of the themes has been so-called fixed-term employment without pay between assignments. Last Friday, the government voted against a proposal to do something about it, despite the fact that the Stortinget has said that it is not the intention of the law, but on Sunday – two days after – the council had found out that she had to do something, probably because it is a campaign, without being ready for what she had intended to propose. Today there is a proposal that has been raised here, proposal No. 106, which is a concrete proposal to slow down the possibility of so-called fixed-term employment without pay between assignments. As the Council of State has said that she will do something about it – will the Council of State recommend its party colleagues in Stortingen to vote in favour, or will she continue to oppose real action?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1820	I don't think there can be any doubt that this government has put work against work-life crime high on the agenda through two strategies against work-life crime. The last one was now revised in February and has been developed with the parties. Then it's true that the government parties voted against several of the proposals that were discussed here last week. One of the main reasons for this was that many of these proposals had already been implemented, they were in processes, and some of them, of course, were also opposed. For rental: Yes, there has been a process with the parties over time to see how we can solve what is a problem: a lot of rentals in the construction industry, especially in Oslo and Akershus, without overstepping what we all want, namely regular temporary employment. Processes with the parties are in progress. My goal is to send a proposal to the hearing this summer, and I think this is a matter that should also be heard. It's so complicated that it'll be useful. I have not seen the proposal in the Chamber, but I can guarantee the representative Andersen that we intend to solve what is a challenge with rent, in cooperation with the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1829	The Government has introduced more competition and tenders in Nav. Nav is now using private service providers to get people to work, including the employment agency staffing industry. In Rogaland, among other things, your development AS has won a tender. The quality of the user follow-up has been questioned. In addition, the business model stipulates that supervisors must set up individual enterprises and not be employed by the company. Then it is natural to ask the Council of State why the government is pursuing a policy that contributes to Nav actually undermining a well-organised and serious working life by using actors such as Your Development and increasing the staffing industry in the employment service.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1836	Yes, it is true that the government has a new Nav tendering regime for a number of services. It is because several reports showed that the work was not good enough before, the users did not get what they needed, and there was a need to make changes in the field. There has been one report now showing that the tender procedures have been carried out in the manner envisaged, and then an evaluation of the qualitative nature of the tender itself will be carried out next year. As far as your development is concerned, there are questions I have been asked in this room earlier, both orally and in writing. Based on what we heard and saw from your development, I have asked Nav to evaluate the organisational form and how this is, and then you have to come back to it. It's too early for me to say anything about that kind of organization now – whether it's against the intentions or not. My message in this room in that case has been clear: in general, I believe that regular employment should be the general rule, also in this industry, but there may be cases where it is appropriate and reasonable to hire special skills and other things. But your development is now to be assessed in the department, and I will wait with the department's assessment for this tender.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1843	It's especially to think that fixed employment is desirable, and at the same time rigging systems that add up to the opposite. I also think there is little reason to rest in this matter, when there is doubt about how the legislation is being enforced, and also about the quality of the service. But it is not just competition policy against Nav that is a problem. Young people who do not receive follow-up to this government post are also a major problem. Still away, we can be contacted by, read about, or see that young people on redundancy pay or in line for work, activity or education are unaccompanied by Nav. Why is it that, despite beautiful promises, youth stands without follow-up today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1850	I think it is quite special to get this criticism from a party that introduced three guarantees that have been evaluated to not work. That's why we reorganized the three warranties in Nav, because they didn't work, and replaced it with a youth effort that undertakes that young people who have nothing to do after eight weeks will get a concrete offer of activity. The previous guarantee was that a plan would be offered, but no activity. So in addition to the youth effort that we've put in, there's a lot of other things we do for young people, for example. two-year training measures in Nav, compulsory activity in Nav, an action referred to by SV as forced labour. We do a lot on the school side by closing the gap between youth and adult education in order to avoid youth going on long before they can realize the desire for higher education. We've introduced a limit of absenteeism that makes school absences fall. There is reason to believe that it will also have a good effect to include, help and follow up on vulnerable young people better than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1855	Then the next and last representative is Snorre Serigstad Valen. It's one line from him to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1860	Thank you, that's okay, because that's a short question. Why will the government not evaluate the effects, effects and consequences of the cut in the child supplement for disabled dependants?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1865	Over the years, more expert reviews of the children’s supplement have been carried out. Several of them were also implemented during the previous government. What you've been busy about is seeing how you can help make working pay more than going to social security. Children’s supplements are among those that have been highlighted as a challenge in terms of paying off work. There is also a background for the Stortinget to decide, in 2015, that the sum of disability benefits and child allowances should not exceed 95 pst. of previous income, and so there was a three-year transitional arrangement, which has now been extended by the Stortinget. It is the principle that you should not get more in social security than what you would get in income, and that is also the reason why the Storting made the change you made.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1870	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1876	During this major period, the government has led a policy of work, activity and change. In 2014, we got the most serious fall in oil and gas prices in 30 years. This has reduced activity in petroleum-related industries and increased unemployment. It has revealed the need for change and the need to create new jobs. Lower demand for goods and services from the oil industry is a lasting structural change. The challenges associated with this can not be met with short-term measures alone or with a large-scale expansion of the public sector. In the years ahead, the Norwegian economy will need more bones, and our main task now is to strengthen the private sector and facilitate growth and employment in the competitive sector. The goal of the government is to ensure high employment and low unemployment. It is then important to continue to work to ensure a good framework for business, a growth-enhancing tax system, better infrastructure and focus on research, knowledge and skills. The 2017 budget includes a strong commitment to investment in infrastructure, research and innovation. It reduces transport costs for business, strengthens innovation and enhances population competence The draft revised budget reinforces efforts in several areas. In order to help increase capacity in the healthcare sector, governments will have several all-day care places. The proposal in the revised budget provides for 1300 new seats in 2017. The Norwegian model of co-financed services and generous welfare schemes depends on high levels of professional participation in order to be economically viable. There are signs of improvement in the labour market, and unemployment is falling. Nevertheless, greater efforts are needed for those at risk of being out of work. In the revised budget, the Government proposes to strengthen the efforts of young people outside work, education or other activities. Strengthening the follow-up resources for the unemployed under 30 years of age in the second half of the year will help more young people across the country get faster help to get into work or education. The government also proposes to increase the supply of labour market measures by 500 seats in the second half of 2017. Plassen will help to strengthen training and education to qualify unemployed and disabled people and help reduce the number of ports at risk of long-term unemployment. It is important that we have a tax and social security system that is so organised that it pays to work. It is then the most important task to facilitate the creation of jobs in the private sector. This government has been busy conducting a tax policy that stimulates the creation of more jobs at all times. The government's proposal on a tax incentive scheme for long-term investment in start-up companies and that one in the 2018 government budget will propose changes in the taxation of options for small and medium-sized enterprises have been well received by industry. The government is busy keeping Norwegian private ownership and has reduced the wealth tax on working capital in order to improve the access to capital and the ability to create new jobs in existing companies as well. This tax could instead be used to invest or to invest more in enterprises. The wealth tax weakens the growth capacity of businesses and job security. It is still very difficult to defend that foreign ownership is appreciated in relation to Norwegian ownership through this property tax. A company with Norwegian owners, often family-run businesses, is punished for creating jobs in a local environment. Property taxes must be paid regardless of whether the company is in surplus or in deficit, and many Norwegian business owners say that they are in great difficulty when it comes to competing with foreign companies. It is therefore important that this work continues even in the next growing-up period. It is a pleasure to note that it seems to be shining in the Norwegian economy. There are now 60,000 jobs created in the private sector. The unemployment rate is on the way down and growth is on the way up. This government is pursuing a policy that solves the challenges today, making Norway more robust for the future. The government's policy is working!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1901	"Give me the clean and rank, the firm and strong men, those who have patience and will and never in life go away," wrote Rudolf Nilsen in the voice of the poem Revolution. Had he written it today, I'm sure he would find a way to include women. Anyway, it takes patience and will to operate with politics. The Labour Party has been in opposition to a government for nearly four years with a different view of how social development is going – a government that believes that society is best created by being at the top, those with the most capital, who, by their desire to create something themselves, are best equipped to see what society is going to do together. Therefore, naturally, they have also prioritised using much of the economic space on those who have absolutely the most of us, in the hope that it would be created more. We can now establish that it has not worked out. The working party sees society differently. We believe that society is created from below. Yes, we know that society is created from below. That is why our policy has also been to focus on the broad layers of the population. We believe in a society where knowledge and skills are shared equally, and that's why we've been focusing on knowledge and competence throughout the entire period, and we're also doing it in the revised national budget. The best thing would have rusted us out to get to the top and given the fastest growth when things turned out, had been an even more competent workforce. Where the budgetary agreement lubricates a small room of action thinly beyond, the Workers' Party is a main priority. "Give me the cold and wise, who know my reality. Better than many who say they believe, I need someone who knows." The Workers' Party has demonstrated throughout our existence that we have the ability to know people's needs, while we have the ability to understand how we are moving society forward without putting the economy above us. Rudolf Nilsen's poem shows that even in his day it was those who promised more than they could keep, who had beautiful promises they could not keep when they talked about how everyday life would get better. "Nothing is more like writing in truth than promises of love," he writes. We who have patience and strength are constantly challenged in all countries by populist parties with beautiful promises of removing tolls, scrapping the rule of action, resisting schemes that finance a community that includes all. This has also been the trademark of the Progress Party in the period before they came into government – simplified solutions, getting a lot and paying little. In position we have seen that these promises have not kept. They've been writing in sand. ‘Give me the burning hearts, which never give way to doubt, which can never be chastised by disgust and threatened by sorrows to rest, but meet each say, each defeat with the same invulnerable smile.’ This has been four years where we have seen the country moving in the wrong direction. Another four years with this government will give further movement in this crazy direction. Now the election campaign begins. There we meet an Labour Party that is clearly political, hungry for victory and ready to steer Norway in the right direction, where work and well-being, school and climate will once again be the most important thing for government and greatness. Nothing could have been more fitting than the end of this poem by Rudolf Nilsen: «No one can know before the victory is my how much it really applied. Maybe it's about saving our land. The best among you are cold.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1933	I've said in the past that we have a government that doesn't understand North Norway. We've been demonstrating that for four years. The examples are many, so time doesn't allow me to come in everyone, but I will come back to someone who documents my claim to those degrees. Before I do that, I'll say to those representatives who are probably now going to take the floor to say that I'm talking down the part of the country, because I'm criticizing the government: on the contrary, I'm talking up North Norway, just because I know the part of the country well and know what opportunities are there, but also what challenges we have. That's why I'm so very proud to have a party leader who also sees it. And he didn't notice that yesterday. No, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, he raised a whole section of the country and us who live there. And he's still doing it, which, not least, has come to light both through the Workers' Party's Alternative State Budget and in our proposals for RNB over the last four years. The Workers' Party proposes a large-scale marine value creation programme, in which research, innovation and knowledge-building are priority areas. This value creation program is not a purely Nordic program. Just by taking a little look at the globe you can quickly see that we have a lot of sea in the north. Already today, this sea gives us great values – values that are eternal only we manage them in a sustainable way. The Workers' Party's value creation programme shall contribute to this, both through more stock research, the mapping of minerals at sea, the research centres for the marine environment, etc. That some people think it's nice to harp with the word'sea space', we live with it. When you find no other attack point than that, it just shows that the content of the bet is correct – and it is important. What we lack in the north, on the other hand, are rich uncles with a lot of capital. That's why it's a shame to say that, but unfortunately I wasn't very surprised that you couldn't match the Norse Seed Fund with private capital. And here I come to the most important thing in RNB that shows that the government still doesn't understand North Norway. Instead of listening to some of the investor environments we all have in the north, the government chooses to add funds to Innovation Norway. The Government underlines that it is to be invested on a project basis. And not enough, the money has to be managed passively. With such leadership, I struggle to separate this from the normal operation of Innovation Norway. Nevertheless, Innovation Norway will be allocated 2.5 million. NOK extra for the job of distributing these funds. The only special thing is that the funds are earmarked for businesses located in North Norway. They don't even say that the activity is going to be in North Norway. The Workers' Party is therefore promoting a proposal today that we propose that funds be released by the Department and that smaller investor environments throughout the country can apply for an amount equivalent to what they do out of private capital. In addition to the fact that the funds are then managed in North Norway, this also contributes to building investor competence in the country. So, ladies and gentlemen of the financial committee, take a look at proposal No. 109. There are at least many people in the north who are excited about the vote in the case. Another example of the government's lack of understanding of North Norway is that the government has cut regional development funds through several budget proposals, which have been important for the county municipalities to fulfil the role of regional development. I could provide a long list of projects that have been realised precisely because the county municipalities have had funds available. So to the government's main investment for the development of private business – cut in the wealth tax. I have previously tried to ask the Minister of Finance: how much of the relief in the property tax has ended up in North Norway? I have not received an answer to that. Now she has an opportunity to respond to it today, but more important than that is not least how many jobs this has given the country. I thank you for four years at Stortinget and thank you all for a good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1954	When the Right and Advance Party joined the government in the autumn of 2013, unemployment was increasing and the growth of the Norwegian economy was decreasing. Despite the fact that the red-greens had inheritance taxes, higher wealth taxes, higher taxes on people and companies, an economy of growth and record oil prices, increased hospital queues, and there were 15,000 more poor children with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Swedish Government. Higher taxes do not necessarily mean more well-being. The Right Party and the Advance Party have had to deal not only with the legacy of the red-green, but also with the greatest oil price drop in 30 years. In contrast to the financial crisis, which some compare with this, this accelerated the need for a necessary transformation of the Norwegian economy. Now we see optimism all over the country. The trend is that unemployment is falling, and growth is increasing, and this has happened faster than most economists expected. The government's policy works, and we see the results. The Workers' Party's comments on the revised national budget refer to the use of oil money as uncontrolled. I guess the perfect use of oil money is the Workers' Party, which was about 4 billion. kr less than the 2016 government. So the difference between uncontrolled and perfectly structured oil money usage is about 4 billion. kr. The working party has paid the SSB to make it clear that public consumption is more effective than short-term tax cuts in job creation. According to LO, 27 600 jobs would be created if we had spent 25 billion. kr on public consumption instead of tax relief. But if there's public consumption we're going to live on in the future, the Workers' Party must not just reverse 25 billion. kr in tax bills, but also increase taxes and taxes by around 85 billion. kr to employ the remaining unemployed. Simsalabim – with the magic wand everything can be solved. I would like to remind you that LO's then chief economist Stein Reegård went out in 2014 and said that all employment growth in the last four years of the Labour Party was in government, went to work immigrants, which he thought forced Norwegian labour and led to a decline in employment in Norway. Simsalabim doesn't exist – it's just a word. It's not public consumption we're going to live on in the future. We need to ensure that more jobs in private business contribute to the state budget – and do not live to do so. That's what this government has done. New records have been set in the number of newly registered companies two years in a row under this government. It doesn't mean that all of these are going to be industrial giants, but we need a strong undergrowth of businesses to get a diverse business life that makes us more robust for change. It is therefore gratifying that the government introduces a deduction scheme for investments in new Norwegian companies and at the same time alerts deferred tax on options in line with the business and professional organisations that they want. I tend to say that politicians rarely have the prerequisites to pick winners in a market, but market losers are often good at picking politicians who give them money. There is nothing wrong with supporting industrial development with targeted instruments. The government has done so, among other things. by means of the entrepreneurial communication and measures and strategies for industry, maritime sector, aquaculture, bioeconomy and tourism, to mention something. Our job is to facilitate industry and business development at all levels, including for small and medium-sized enterprises, which in fact make up half of the value creation and employment in Norway – and we do. Today we see that Norway has climbed from 16th to 12th place in the EU's innovation ranking. I am not psychic, but it was not very difficult to predict the reactions when a former skier and now business problematized around the property tax. But the ridicule of those who create values in family-run businesses is a mockery of jobs all over the country. For these holdings are not located in Oslo. Here we hear a good deal about property taxes. They lie ‘between hills and mountains toward the sea’, where active nordics have built stone on stone and have been able to leave what they have created to the next generation. It is these companies that are Norway's backbone and Norway's pride, who say they want to pay their taxes with joy, but ask for the same conditions of competition as their foreign competitors, or simply not to pay dividends to pay a tax that falls due even when they are in deficit. Working all over Norway should really listen well after when the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens talk about active industrial policy and wealth taxes. Unless their job or industry is explicitly mentioned as a field of activity, their jobs are likely to receive the tax bill. Unemployment is falling, growth is rising, and the autumn elections will be between a government that reverses and counters necessary changes and a forward-looking government that continues to take Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e1979	This has been a pleasant summary of the last four years. But I have to say that it scares a little how pleased the Right Party and the Advance Party are with their results, the last speakers included. Today the SSB reports that the AKU unemployment rate is 4.6 pst. - a little bit up. 126,000 were out of work in April. We see that those who disappear out of work do not go to a new job, but are permanently out of work, because new jobs are not created. The share that is not at work was in 2016 the highest in excess of 20 years. Employment among young people was the lowest in 2016 at the age of 20. These are results I think it is reasonably special to be satisfied with. Yes, we should welcome the increase in optimism among farm owners in the West. But that's not the whole picture. There are still record numbers in Stavanger, Sandnes, Haugesund and Egersund available. Obviously, they will not see the Right and the Advance Party. This is in every way a government that's behind it. In the revised national budget a year ago, in 2016, 1 billion came. kr more for measures to combat unemployment. In 2017 there won't be one penny. The availability remains at a high level. The Right Party and the Advance Party show that they are not willing to take the necessary steps, so that the unemployment actually goes down as well. That is why I am pleased that the Labour Party in our alternative has a more powerful and targeted effort to combat unemployment – targeted at getting young people into work or education, focused on getting long-term unemployed in work, focused on an enormous level of competence. Perhaps the biggest danger signal is that not enough new jobs are created. The Right Party and the Advance Party have spent a lot of time talking about conversion. There's been a lot of talk, but little results to show. I think Bård Bjerkholt in today's business described the last four years well. He wrote: ‘Norwegian economy is changing. Back to oil.’» The new jobs in the new industries have been absent. It's just to say, when it comes to conversion, it's been four years lost. I am pleased that the Workers' Party shows that another way is possible. We present concrete proposals and measures that can create new jobs. We're going to use the necessary tools and make sure that industries where we're best in Norway can become industries where we're best in the world. We want a strong industrial policy, we want to bet on technology transfer, and we want to help entrepreneurs make a solid commitment. Politicians cannot adopt new jobs, but we can organise. Private individuals and businesses have the competence and risk to create something new, but it is we, the public authorities, who can give the competence a boost and minimize the risk. Individuals can take initiatives — the community can get initiatives to grow and create new values and new jobs. Especially exciting I think our ambitions for the sea are. Today, we are presenting proposals for a marine value creation programme. Here, there is a great potential for increased value creation and not least for new jobs. However, it requires a strategic effort, where it cooperates across sectors, such as oil and gas, renewable energy, aquaculture and fisheries, so that our world-leading competence and technology can be put into practice in new areas. We are making several concrete proposals here today, which unfortunately are not supported. What I think is most significant for this debate is that it seems that the whistle has gone out of the government parties altogether. The Right and the Progressive Party have little new to join in this debate. The supporting parties are very calm. Government parties are not willing to take the necessary action. It looks like a government just waiting to be replaced. I am pleased to be able to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2011	Technical Ukeblad has reported increasing exceedances on Norwegian pedestal. 200 B.C.E. kr have been summing up over the last 14 years, despite cost cuts due to lower oil prices in recent years. Nevertheless, Goliath, Aasta Hansteen and Martin Linge – just to name a few – have had exceedances of 30 billion. kr so far. Asta Hansteen's exceedances are currently 3 billion. kr and current, there is a long way to go to production, and the gas price is now below the break-even, which Statoil must have in order to make money and repay the State tax subsidies received at the start-up. In the past, high oil prices have captured these exceedances, but as the oil price falls, it is becoming increasingly doubtful whether these marginal expansions should have been adopted and whether they will make money for Norway. The state, that is, the people, takes the bill. The representative Siri A. Meling from the Right stated to the Technical Weekly that these exceedances were 80 to 90 pst. must be paid by the State and the taxpayers in the form of tax revenue lost. Norway’s main oil lobbyist, Schjøtt-Pedersen, repeats the fact that the oil money finances kindergartens and hospitals. It is mildly inaccurate, but since I have never heard anyone from the Right, the Center Party or the Workers' Party protest, the same rhetoric should apply to them at least 150 billion. kr which is the country’s share of these losses. So this is the money that the government is giving away to the oil companies, instead of using them for hospitals and schools. What's going on? What happens is that the bulk of the population now keeps so blind to the dream that oil will finance our well-being for a long time in the future, and is so afraid to start the new big green change project that Norway is already overtime to start, that they uncritically accept increasingly unrealistic oil projects and price assumptions. What happens is that the government today allocates over 90 new exploration blocks in 24th concession rounds to keep alive the illusion of a lot of oil rigs and oil jobs in the Barents Sea, based on oil-insider that continues to fable about $60 to $80 barrel. Oil and gas market overcapacity is high, and overcapacity is more likely to be greater than being reduced. If international climate policy, to which Norway refers, works, demand for oil and gas is falling. Renewable technologies are already reducing demand and new transport technologies can cut oil demand very quickly. What happens is that Storting still refuses to even talk about the climate impact of 23rd and 24th concession rounds for our descendants. This means that even more Norwegian oil and gas will end up as CO 2 in the atmosphere – and even more climate change ‘Made in Norway’. It'll make the climate bill of our children even more cruel, but we're not discussing it in Stortinget. However, regardless of what is meant by climate policy, the majority of the population should agree that we need a review of the price assumptions for oil projects to be addressed by the Stortinge in the future – and of the Norwegian oil tax model, which is the prerequisite for the oil sector to be able to invest in new projects at all. The size should not continue to authorise projects based on unrealistically low costs and unrealistic expectations of oil and gas prices. Moreover, it is very worrying that we have fatal accidents related to the construction of Norwegian platforms, which we also need to look at. The Green Party makes choices to make further Norwegian oil activities economically realistic from a climate perspective and from a technology perspective. So why do we have this situation in 2017? Well - read e.g. Statoil's 16-page 2-million advertising campaign in the A magazine, which is about the future towards 2030, and check Statoil's online campaign When good advice is young. These campaigns seem to cost far more than twice the budget of the Greens/Greens/EFA. So our state oil company is running a huge impact campaign right into the big shot that they're financing with the people's money. It is in itself a significant democratic problem. In addition, the campaign is misleading, it produces Statoil’s activities as a green project, while the truth is that Statoil will invest 80–90 pst in 2030. of their money in oil and gas, and that the basic purpose of the campaign is, of course, to maintain goodwill, favourable support schemes and the willingness to distribute new exploration areas to a company that has a commercial attitude to its own bottom line – and that is to have it. So this is false advertising, it's on the edge of the marketing law, and a state company shouldn't do that. According to Anne Karin Säther’s excellent book on the oil country, Norway, in climate policy – it’s called the best intentions and is recommended reading for everyone during the summer holidays – Statoil spends between 1⁄2 and 1 billion a year. kr in the year of this type of influence work, and there is a claim that I am aware has not been met. It is undemocratic that the state's own oil company is exerting such a massive influence on its own owner, that is. The people and the politicians, right into the big elections without the state that owns lifting a finger. And guess if it works-- the answer is 24. It is unconventional to make proposals related to this in the revised national budget, but we do so because it is budgetaryly relevant that the last 14 government budgets show 200 billion. kr in exceedances. We do it because oil price developments indicate that the risk of new exceedances is increasing, and we do so because the state's oil company is so actively influencing the decision-makers in these kinds of cases. The Green Party is going to choose to shift the main effort of the Storting and Norway to build the new sustainable Norway – the sustainable and safe jobs – and we are going to choose that we must start harvesting the remaining values of the oil industry and take responsibility for the orderly closure of an industry that is in any case under liquidation. We are therefore promoting three proposals. It is a proposal to ask the National Audit Office to review the exceedances, including the fatal accidents associated with the construction of Norwegian oil platforms. We promote proposals to ask the government to assess whether Statoil's advertising campaign is misleading marketing. And we propose that the government ensure that Statoil does not influence the roll-out elections with massive advertising campaigns.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2048	The government has run Norway through a difficult time with the worst oil price drop of 30 years. There have been – and too many are still – very difficult times. The most important job is to combat unemployment and ensure that new jobs are created, and there are now signs of improvement in the Norwegian economy. Economic growth is on its way up, and optimism is on its way back. The International Monetary Fund, the IMF; believes it is a boom in the Norwegian economy. But there is still a great need for a greener economy, which has more legs to stand on, and which is able to face enormous technological changes. With the revised 2017 budget, we are strengthening efforts to contribute to the necessary transformation, new jobs and further growth across the country. The government, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, has increased the funding for industrial research and innovation by over 3 billion. kr from 2013 to the 2017 budget. Historically, many enterprises and projects are thus now contributing to the emergence of the necessary transformation and innovation. We further reinforce this through the proposed tax incentive scheme for long-term investment in start-up companies. Personal taxpayers who invest directly or indirectly in specific types of companies are entitled to a deduction in general income of up to DKK 500000 in annual investments. It will provide entrepreneurs with better access to capital and investors. The Government also proposes to increase the innovation loan framework by 300 million. kr, which means that Innovation Norway can now lend out a total of €1.2 billion. kr to innovative growth enterprises and start-ups. The government will also make it easier for companies to borrow from private banks. Therefore, we propose to double the Innovation Norway framework for guarantees for loans for real investment in operating capital from 40 million. to 80 million. kr. We have to create jobs across the country, and we are therefore proposing the creation of a state co-investment fund for North Norway. The new fund will provide at least 260 million. kr for new projects in the region. The goal is more value creation and innovation. The Fund will mobilise private capital for young innovative enterprises in an important part of the country. In the South, we're going to allocate $30 million. kr to Mechatronics Innovation Lab in Grimstad. With this, the laboratory has received State grants of 100 million. kr during this period. This national centre shall provide business with the opportunity to test new technologies, products and solutions. This is how we get faster innovation, more technology investment and new jobs. The maritime industry is still in a challenging period, and it has hit the West in particular. The Government therefore proposes to further strengthen the subsidy scheme for seafarers for more than 400 seafarers on ships in the Norwegian international ship register. The change means that shipping companies can receive full reimbursement for seafarers on board NIS registered oil and chemical tankers, gas tankers and ro-ro ships in deep sea operations. This has been a highly competitive part of the industry, and the reinforcement will help to ensure internationally competitive framework conditions for Norwegian seafarers on international voyages and thus maintain Norwegian maritime competence. In the revised 2017 national budget, the government has facilitated a further investment in new jobs across the country. We want more good entrepreneurs, more high-growth businesses and more innovative business environments. In this way, Norway can take the lead in a time of transition and ensure that Norwegian business is competitive both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2063	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2068	In the 2017 budget, 125 million were allocated. kr in State investment capital of a nationwide seed fund for ICT industries. Already, in the RNB, the entire ICT fund is being zeroed, on the grounds that the ESA authorisation takes time. Then it must be allowed to ask: How hard does the government have the job to get the ESA approval in place? Have you thrown the cards too too too early this time?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2073	I can assure the representative that we are impatient. This will be seen from both the seed funds and the pre-seed funds that we have received, just after they have been adopted. We know a lot about what we can notify, and how we can do it. The problem with this fund is that the size and the fact that there's an ICT label on it, we know we can't notify it. The fund had to be bigger, or the ICT label had to be removed. That's why this is taking time, and that's why we said we're not getting a notification of this fund in the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2083	The working party has long been concerned about the poor working conditions of seafarers in Norwegian waters. The first thing she did when she took up the offices was to stop the tripartite cooperation that was then – the investigation of working conditions for seafarers. The Right Party and the Advance Party have been clear opponents of this investigation throughout the ageing period. Today, the Council of State receives a marshalling earth from Stortinget, where one decides that an investigation of Norwegian salary and working conditions in Norwegian waters must now be carried out. It is also important that this becomes a good tripartite collaboration. Can the Council of State here and now guarantee that there will be rapid progress and rapid follow-up to this proposal? Can she also ensure that all parties are included?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2090	It's not that often I'm surprised at the history production here in the hall, but today I do. There was no investigation work in the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries when we joined. There are plenty of investigations that have been carried out over the years of these issues, but there was no work going on. No work was stopped either. What was done when we joined was that we took the tripartite cooperation seriously. We put down a range of speeds, which came up with its setting. We have loyally followed up that setting. The question asked by the representative was part of the committee’s debate. It was not recommended. What the representative recommends is that I should throw overboard the tripartite cooperation and thus satisfy the representative's proposal. The proposal that has been put forward today has a completely different form from that of the Workers' Party during its opposition period. This concerns an investigation within the principles of the flag State. We can do that. We know the conclusion of such an investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2101	I think we really agree quite on that story. An important work – which our government had started – was stopped by this government. It's just a complaint. But I think it is positive that the Council of State is now willing to initiate this work. The working party regrets that this has taken so long. The fact that one now gets an aggregate increase in this decision is good. But since the Council of State spent almost all its time in replying to my reply to talk about the story that has been, I will give her a little more time – in the next answer – to say something about the work that is now ahead of us. What we're concerned about, and what my question was about, is how fast we get this work going. This is something we've been pressing to do for four years, and I'm glad that a total increase is now behind this. Is this work going to start quickly, or do we have to wait a long time? And can you make sure that all the parties are included?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2108	I just have to repeat – and I have actually investigated this: there was no investigation work in the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries in this area when we joined – it did not take place. It was not stopped either. What we have done in this period – and I understand very well that the representative is not interested in talking about history, nor had I been – is that we have investigated how we can strengthen the net pay system, how we can strengthen access to Norwegian ships in NIS, how we can legislate the net pay system. We've done more in four years than the red-green thing in eight. So I can promise that we don't need a long time on these investigations. There is an investigation in the 1970s, 1980s, 1990s and 2000s. We know the answer to a lot of these questions, so it won't take long.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2117	In the last week, the Stortinget discussed a left-wing proposal on a simpler everyday life for small and medium-sized enterprises. I see with great pleasure that one of the proposals that was then voted against the voices of the Left, the resolution of the annual report requirement for smaller enterprises, is now being introduced by the government. It's a kind of hard way to do it, maybe, but let go -- the results are all the more important, it's them as numbers. Another proposal, which did not receive multiples of the previous week, was the proposal to pass on today’s rules on the reporting and taxation of personnel discounts and payments in kind related to third-party benefits. The proposal, which is being heard by the Directorate-General for Taxation, means that in this case all employers should have both an overview and a report on all staff rebates that each contributor achieves a link to the employment relationship. That means that if I were to do e.g. buys sports equipment in a sports store in Oslo where Stortinget’s sports teams have negotiated discounts, Stortinget must have an overview of it. The question is whether the Council of State thinks this is a sensible proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2124	I'm very concerned about simplification, and I'm very pleased that today we can see that half a year before we were going to, is in line with what we promised in 2013, namely, 15 billion. kr in annual savings for business. So it's right, as the representative says, that today, in the Council of State, a change was approved in the Accounting Act, for which the Minister of Finance is responsible, which helps us to reach that target. The question asked by the representative also falls within the sphere of the Minister of Finance. I have a habit of answering for what I am responsible for. In general, I am very much for further business simplifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2129	The government statement states that the government will ‘develop requirements for all new public vehicles and all new taxis, ferries, scheduled boats and diesel trains to use low or zero emission technologies when the technology so requires’. This has not been followed up by the government. We got a majority in the Energy and Environment Committee at an earlier time, where we said: ‘The Government is asking for measures to be taken to ensure that all county and local ferries and fast boats use low or zero-emission technologies for new offers and for self-reliance routes.’ This has not been followed up in the Industrial Communication. Instead, it says, ‘the government wants to facilitate’, not ‘to make demands’. Fortunately, we were given a majority – all the parties except the Right and the Advance Party – to implement the government statement at this point, when we demanded that all new ferries and speedboats use low- or zero-emission technologies when the situation indicates that this is possible. When has the Council of State planned to ensure that this will be part of the regulation on public acquisitions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2141	The question is based on a fascinating attack by an SV representative from Hordaland today, who after eight years of government without lifting a finger to put in place a new public procurement code, i.e. this government – or me – is more likely to attack to sleep in this area. We haven't. We have put in place a new regulation. We've put in place new regulations. And they set environmental standards. But I think the representative may misunderstand if he thinks that we need to have our own regulations for all the public procurements, i.e. our own regulations for the construction of schools, our own regulations for the purchase of coffee and their own rules for the purchase of ferries. Our goal is to facilitate low and zero emissions when technology so requires. It's stuck. We have said that in the Maritime Strategy. We also have a number of investments in Innovation Norway, in Enova, in transfers to the county and in the increase in the environmental technology system. We're doing everything we can to enable county councils to look for the best technology on holiday offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2148	I do not accept an arrogance from the government that means that you actively leave to follow a decision on the collapse. I would like to underline what the Storting decided last Thursday: ‘The government is asked to draw up requirements under the Public Acquisition Act that all new ferries and scheduled boats use low or zero emission technologies when the situation indicates that this is possible.’ So this is a big decision. The Council of State stands here and says that I have to understand that she cannot claim all kinds of purchases in those regulations. Of course the Council of State can. That the Council of State will not do that, that the Council of State will not follow up the government statement, that may be the problem of the Council of State – I kept saying – but she cannot fail to follow up a loud and clear decision of censure even if she disagrees with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2158	In any case, the President would have chosen a slightly different word from "arrogance".
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2163	I said on the contrary that the government has intended to follow up our ambitions. And of course, a government follows up the decision of the Storting. What I tried to say is that we do not have our own regulations for every purchase we make. I think the representative has to think through what the regulation jungle would then be like, and what it would be like to be a public buyer. Are we going to have our own regulations for every procurement that public procurement does? It'll be very complicated. But we've done everything we can, and we're going to do what we can. And it was this government that made environmental requirements for public procurement, not the red-green one, that was set earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2169	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2176	Earlier in the debate, the Minister of Finance invited, which is natural at the end of a four-year period, to summarise the results and see how it has gone. It is a fact that the government took over a country with one of Europe’s lowest unemployment rates, while today we have a stable high unemployment rate in Norway, a small percentage increase today – I am not going to put the emphasis on it. More serious than that, very few jobs have been created during this period, especially in the private sector. The oil price drop has been a challenge, but it has become evident that we have a weak dollar rate and that we have a low interest rate, which is a favourable framework for other business start-ups in Norway — but thus poor results. We see that employment has actually fallen over long periods. The employment rate is lower than in many, many years – 66.8 pst. is the last number I have recorded that we relate to – while it goes up in other countries. We are going down on OECD employment statistics, while in the period from 2005 to 2013, we are going down, for example. the financial crisis encountered by most countries in the world with major problems in dealing with increased employment rates in Norway. So now it goes down. The number of miscarriages is increasing. The number of young people unemployed increased from 10,000 to 14,700 from 2013 to 2017 – an increase of well over 40 pst. by young people — despite the fact that the current Prime Minister’s mantra in front of the election campaign was the last to adopt the stigmatizing word alienation from his Swedish party spheres and would make it a major feature of this reigning period. It's gone the other way. The proportion of poor people is increasing, and the proportion of those dependent on social assistance is increasing. The differences are increasing, and it is confirmed when we receive official answers from the Ministry of Finance, but are denied by the Minister of Finance at the Stockholm Chair. In the fight against social dumping, the government has shown itself to be an opponent of measures against social dumping. We have a proposal here today that can solve the challenges of so-called fixed-term employment without pay between assignments, but I doubt that we will get support for it. And finally, the proposal to evaluate pay and working conditions in the North Sea is unanimously adopted, but I actually perceived it in the Council's response that the follow-up was going to be – it's difficult to say – in such a way that the non-parliamentary expression that was used instead might be the correct descriptive expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2189	I usually don't address the President like that, but since this is the President's last day, I would like to say, "Good, dear, the President himself!" There is a need to focus on professional work in a broad sense, on school and apprenticeship activities, on proper working conditions, and to ensure respect for professional work. We have to tell our students that it's exciting, that it gives choices, and not least that it's forward-looking. The Labour Party has made a number of proposals to raise the professional field, and that is especially when the budgets are designed, what the parties are really prioritizing. In our alternative budget in the autumn, we proposed spending 325 million. D more in the professional field than in the government, and in the revised version we continue this initiative. The initiative starts with the five- and six-year-olds in primary school – with more teachers and more early efforts. It continues with a more practical school, and we will provide a real boost for the professions, among other things. by the fact that the content of education is close to the reality of working life and that students are given practical experience throughout the school cycle. The Workers' Party will grant grants to the enterprises that provide trainees' periods of practice. We're going to make sure that multiple learning places are set up, because every year there are between 7,000 and 9,000 unskilled students. It's an unacceptable situation. In order to stimulate more enterprises to take responsibility, the Workers' Party will have a significant increase in the apprenticeship grant. We cannot accept that as many as one in three professionals will end before they have completed the training. It's not a sustainable situation. We need more skilled workers in all parts of the country in almost all industries. In their four years, the government has taken some action, but has been slow to work and has come up with a few new initiatives. During this period, we have experienced that the government has voted down virtually all the proposals and voted against our proposals in the budgets. But we have also seen that after voting them, they have copied some suggestions from the Workers' Party and then presented them themselves. It's better to bet on the original than on the copy. The Labour Party has a much more offensive policy for professional subjects than the government. It is shown, among others: in the budgets – a boost for better-equipped professions, continuing vocational training for trainers, apprenticeship grants, apprenticeship recruitment and hospitation for trainers in secondary school, etc. You're going to need a real lift right now. We continue to invest in the professional sector in the revised national budget because it is urgent, and we intend to raise the professional professions after the autumn elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2206	For more than 30 years, my community and I have lived with wolves. I guess there's hardly anyone in this house who has more experience. I've seen how the nutrient base is displaced, quality of life and life development are strongly affected, hunting and outreach industries are degraded. And I've seen the abstinence that builds up when you're not heard, the total mistrust that gets grounded, and the distance to what's referred to as the "elite" that is created. This is serious. It undermines the strongest side of our society: trust. Untrustworthy conflict-oriented environmental protection breaks down respect and is destructive in the long term. I want to thank the Stortinget for having, in twelve years, gone from solitude to support and majority voting last year. This was a very reasonable settlement with good leads in the comments, but unfortunately we have a bureaucracy that has taken on hearing protection. I have lost confidence that this bureaucracy can follow the decision of Storting in a credible way. The majority ordered last year a new independent study of the genetic origin of the wolf tribe in Norway. I know that a letter that came last night was discussed a little yesterday by parliamentary leaders. Process is running, but it's taken more than one year. During winter and spring, there have been many signals that the Ministry ignores the comments of the Business Committee in the setting and that the prerequisite for the decision is absolutely essential. I quote: ‘... that the investigation of the genetic origin of the wolf strain in Norway today must also aim at a more detailed specification of geographical origin. The majority of the Committee assumes that the study must be carried out by independent environments and by environments which have infrastructure and competence to follow population formation on a comprehensive DNA sequence, both male and female.’ [[total level]] Unfortunately, the Council of State is not here. He was here earlier today, and I had hoped he could comment on this. Because after the letter that came last night, I have asked whether the Department will deal with the comments of the majority of the Business Committee in the same way as they do with the Energy and Environment Committee. The investigation of wild game subjects does not mention the Trade Committee, but the Committee on Energy and the Environment is often mentioned. Indeed, they were equivalent leaders in what came from two committees and formed a majority on the Stortinget. I see this as a very demanding and complicated research project, which must be led by the Research Council in order to ensure objectivity, and the financial framework must be increased. I take up the two suggestions I have made, and at the same time I would like to thank you once again for the understanding and support I received last year. It has been a privilege to use this pulpit to promote matters and views for 12 years, and I have appreciated the debates and exchanges on which they have been founded.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2220	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen then addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2225	We have had the most offensive and successful maritime policy on what the maritime industry remembers during the big-time period 2013-2017. The shipping tax is fixed, it has recently been notified for a new period. We have legalised the net pay scheme, we have raised the ceiling on the scheme several times during the ageing period, also in the budget for 2017. We have lifted the operating limits in NIS, which has led to the fact that, after eight red-green years of deflagration, Norwegian vessels from Norwegian shipping companies have now been relocated significantly. Baltic Sea Shipping flag recently home Edda fjord, back to Norwegian flag. Thus the Norwegian flag is 22 out of 24 of the Haugesund ship. Solstad Offshore has flagged home nine ships from the Isle of Man to the NIS, the Haugeland ship, also in Haugesund, have flagged home six ships, and the list continues and continues. We have removed the inheritance tax, and we reduced the property tax to strengthen Norwegian ownership, which is very important for the maritime cluster along the Norwegian coast. The NOx fund is extended, and in the RNB we do two more steps to strengthen the maritime effort. We are now introducing an extension of the general grant scheme for NIS ships for deep sea workers, i.e. bend loaders, oil and chemical tankers, gas tankers and ro-ro ships – in practice shipping companies such as Teekay and Knutsen in Haugesund. This is the biggest simple step, it is said, that has been taken to ensure jobs for Norwegian seafarers since the reimbursement scheme was established in 1993. Today, we are also proposing an investigation to clarify – and, where appropriate, how – Norwegian salary and working conditions in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian soil, provided that the flag State principle is not challenged. It is a crucial condition for such an investigation to be carried out. So it's the same day that the Stortinge adopts RNB, today we get one of the world's largest shipping companies, with a gigantic merger between Solstad Offshore, Farstad Shipping and Deep Sea Supply, which is now becoming Solstad Farstad. It bears witness to an industry that manages the transition to its own keel, with good contributions from the authorities. It is therefore important that we continue to have a civil majority in the Grand Duchy after the fall, in order to ensure stable framework conditions and to continue to reduce the peculiar wealth tax. It has been a great honour for me for eight years to represent Haugesund, the Haugesund region, Rogaland and the Right on the Stortinget, the people who voted for me and my party. Thank you to colleagues, advisers, consultants, cleaning officers, the guards, those who work at the Stortings restaurant, the committee secretaries, the presidency, the printing service and everyone else who makes the job much easier! As a regionalist on the thing, I will end by saying that I hope and believe that there will be a construction start on the first tunnel over Haukeli during the next big period. Thank you so much for me!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2242	A little bit more ground-based post from my page - literally: I'm going to make some comments on proposal No. 111, which reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to grant its own grant in order to provide a basis for operation on the most heavily populated areas in the country. The investigation should be completed for the 2018 agricultural negotiations in order to allow the parties to determine whether they wish to introduce the 2019 grant.’;» It's a proposal that the Left in intention and content is completely consistent with, but as far as the Left is concerned, to the extent that this proposal is being tabled in the Chamber today – I haven't recorded that it has happened yet – cannot vote for, because in that case it will be worse than what is on the table as the starting point for the agricultural negotiations that are now being started up again. Then I would like to do the Stortinget and insofar as also the proposers and not least the Farmers and Small Users team, who have run a rather fierce campaign against the Left Week last week, paying attention to what is actually on the table. When the Left put forward proposals for a framework for agricultural policy in 2017, we laid the foundations of the agricultural policy of the government. On page 97, it says: «As a follow-up to the majority comment in the Stortinget, it is proposed to launch a new investigation that captures the cost-benefit effects of a new grant scheme to compensate for specific operational difficulties.» Further on page 98: ‘The investigation shall be carried out by a Party Working Group with the Directorate-General for Agriculture as Secretariat. The report shall be finalised by 1 March 2018 in order to decide on the introduction of a new grant for the purposes of the 2018 agricultural production plan.’;» I can't understand anything but that this is necessary to be based on a misinterpretation, and whether it is conscious or unconscious, those who are possibly authors and wives themselves get to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2264	There can be no doubt that right now President Trump is the greatest threat to our common future, not only by turning his back on the world by rejecting the climate convention and the Paris agreement, but above all by the practical policy he is pursuing in the country with the world's second highest emissions. It is easy to criticise also by state councils in Norway. Although the use of words is different, policy is shockingly similar in domestic regions. Trump cancels Obama's no oil drilling in the Arctic. In Norway, the Minister of Oil and Energy is opening up to the Arctic and the Minister of the Environment is trying to move the oil industry further and further north. Trump will slow down the conversion to more renewable energy and bring new life to the coal industry. In Norway, the government has cut support for renewable energy and allocated more areas to oil than ever. Only today the government has lit 102 of 102 search licenses for oil. In 28 of them, the government's own trade unions recommend that oil should not be sought for environmental reasons. That gives the government the bluff in. Trump has put climate negators into central positions. In Norway, half of the Progress Party government councils are climate negators. Trump unwinds the national climate targets to cut 25 pst. CO 2 by 2025. In Norway, the government has deflected all Norwegian climate targets. The government has no goal of steering the Norwegian climate policy. Of course, there are differences, but the similarity of policies is an unpleasant truth that many people should be aware of. This government’s lack of national climate policy is harmful to people and the environment, but it is also a threat to Norwegian employment and employment. When the climate minister presented the climate communication last Friday, he was able to tell me that we have now had the opportunity to buy so many EU quotas that we did not have to implement more climate policy in Norway. That's the right-hand man who wants to sneak away from the climate dungeon. Instead of investing in continuing to support green conversion in Norwegian business to be the most environmentally friendly in the world, the government will buy allowances abroad. Allowances are to pay for lightning trains in Spain instead of building lightning trains in Norway, to pay for fossil-free industrial production in France instead of helping Elkem, TiZir and Hydro to convert the company in Norway and to pay for renewable energy in Germany instead of building sun and wind in Norway. The same is true of the revision that we are dealing with here today. The government is turning its back on a number of previous orders from Stortinget. Instead of making sure to feed Norwegian brewers a carrot to choose fossil-free plastics, the government says no. Instead of saying yes to guarantees for renewable investment in developing countries, as previously decided by the Storting, it is trained by the government. Instead of following up on the ‘Dieselgate’ and increasing the charges for the cheaters in the car industry, the Minister of Finance will let the cheaters go again. The government's climate policy can be summarised in the words of Ym-Stemmen: "We promise nothing, that's why we keep everything." Fortunately, it is soon a choice. That gives hope!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2285	For the eighth time, the government parties together with the Christian People's Party and the Left have agreed on the budget. Eighteen times over the last four years, we have received a budget that contributes to creating values that contribute to a safer everyday life and that contribute to better well-being. For the eighth time, we adopt a budget that strengthens and raises knowledge, research and education. Last week it was a historic day for Norwegian students. For the first time, they received a student loan in June. That's because we've prioritised giving students eleven months of student support. We have also doubled the construction of student housing. In every budget, we have strengthened investment in higher education and research, and between the budgets, we have delivered a number of large-scale messages, made structural interventions and improved conditions for students and researchers, so it goes wrong. We've reached a historic goal of 1 pst. GDP should go to R & D. There's no government until it's clear. The previous government we had even weakened the goal of investing in total 3 pst. of GDP when we add up both public and private efforts. The previous government was best known for its cutting edge in research policy. Now we feel that the research community sees that research policy is, in fact, a priority for the government. With regard to the government's R & D policy, it's not just us who boast of it. In connection with the 2017 budget, we were able to read in the NIFU State Budget Analysis that R & D expenditure has never accounted for a greater share of the State budget. It is simply the end of ‘jojo-budgets’ for investment in research and education. Investments have reached new heights. The Research Council has stated that they have never experienced such predictability before. They say they've never experienced anything similar to multiannual research budgets. That's significant. We've been working on research from day one. Already in the first budget, the 2014 budget, we checked the investments by 0.5 billion. kr in relation to the budget submitted by the red-green government. And we've been following up in every budget since. The environment sees it, the statistics show it. It is an important part of preparing for the future and a prerequisite for the ability to create new jobs and ensure well-being. In my very last post, I want to express joy in everything we've done in higher education and research over the course of these four years. The right went to the choice to strengthen higher education and research. We've delivered on that. No one wins choices on what they've done, but it builds trust to point out what we've got. We still have high ambitions on behalf of the knowledge nation. This means that we will continue to take students seriously, and we will continue to prioritise higher education and research. With these words, I would like to thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2304	In a country where the government boasts that everything is so good, one might think that one had the ability to reach out a little bit to the perhaps the most difficult people in the world, namely those who have been hit by war and are fleeing. The refugee crisis continues to unfold on the other side of the walls that Europe has built around it. Suffering if the refugees no longer come here to Norway and Europe, is not the crisis over, sail if the government says so. They've gone as far as to stop talking about refugees. You talk about immigration. When you're a refugee, it's not about immigration. It's about having been subjected to war, gross violence, oppression, losing everything and fleeing for life. It's not migration, it's not immigration, it's refugees we're talking about. When Norway received 3,460 asylum seekers last year, Uganda received 532,000 asylum seekers. I'll bet they have a little bigger problems dealing with it than Norway has. In Norway, we even promote proposals in the budgets – even now in the revised national budget – to compensate municipalities because there are not enough refugees to fill empty spaces. In that situation, the government chooses not to increase the number of allowances refugees or the number of European relocalisation mechanisms. It's going at snail speed. There's 60,000 trapped in Greece. They're from Syria, Afghanistan and Iraq. One fourth of them are children. Half are women and children. These are people who have lived in total limbo for over a year. Norway has accepted some — that’s quite right — but we can accept more. That is why SV is today promoting a proposal – which I really hope the Stortinge can join – to increase the number of quota refugees, through both the UN and the European relocalisation mechanism, by 2000 in total. There aren't many, but it helps a little bit, and it gives a signal that in our prosperity we are willing to accept some more of those who have lost everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2315	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2321	Once again, we are going to adopt a revised budget that strengthens many important areas, and as a education policy, I am proud that the Progress Party and the Right have implemented concrete quality measures at all stages of Education-Norway. Today, we are going to adopt several ICT study places, increase the apprenticeship grant again, rehabilitate university museums, and ensure further operation of the French school in Oslo, to name a few. With this revised budget, the efforts of the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left have continued throughout the period. The Teacher Lift creates a school where students learn more. In our reign, we have tripled the number of teachers who take further education, compared to what it was like under the Stoltenberg government. I also record that the Workers' Party cuts in that budget line and interprets it so that they want fewer teachers to receive further training. Competence requirements have been introduced in primary schools for teaching in Norwegian, English and mathematics. A new five-year master's course has been introduced for primary school teachers. Through the Storing Message Learned, we have among other things. adopted a reinforced obligation for municipalities to make early efforts and a lower limit on school quality. We have adopted a comprehensive new bullying law, with clear rules, stronger sanctions and strengthening the rights of the bullying victim. Furthermore, we have given students in higher education freer school choices, and we have increased the apprenticeship grant by a total of NOK 21 000. Vocational schools are strengthened, and 33 universities and colleges are merged to 21. Research infrastructure appropriations have increased by 225 million. kr. With the Advance Party in government, we have achieved the goal of granting 1 pst. of GDP for research. Eleven months of study support has been introduced and more than 2000 student housing units are now granted annually. There are twice as many as when the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party were in government. The Workers' Party is not just a part of the teacher's continuing training offer. They also cut specific operational expenditure, on quality development in initial training, which is a very important item to ensure quality development in school. What is the Workers' Party going to cut in? Is it the real-time initiative, the guidance body, participation in international studies such as PISA and TIMSS, skills development for professional teachers, the read strategy or means of the State to follow up new bullying laws? I would like to know that. With the Progress Party in government also the next period, the education sector will continue to be a priority. In conclusion, this is the last post I make in this room, and I would like to thank for good cooperation with both government colleagues and big business representatives. I have to say I'm proud to have been represented by the Progress Party, and I'm proud of everything we've done in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2342	It is a sign of health to the extent that so little of the debate is about the actual revised budget. That's because, as I said earlier, it's a rather boringly revised budget, and I think that's the best way, and not as an insult. The vast majority of parties join most of what is proposed, and that is because it is rather uncontroversial and unpolitical proposals. For this reason, there is also a explanation of vote. There is also a lot in the budgetary agreement between the civil parties we could well support and vote for, but SV does not have the tradition of going into the discovery of other parties after our budget has been delivered. So it's said how our voting needs to be interpreted today. That being said, it's not like little things are always small things. The revised budget is also a lost opportunity. It was the last opportunity the government had to do something that really monks for the poor caregivers who are experiencing great cuts. It was the last chance the government had to think a little about the cuts that many now experience in housing support – a very important system for thousands of people who now experience it falling away. It was the last chance the government had to show seriousness with climate policy and for once not point to others, not point to the quota market, not point to Europe, but point to ourselves, and say that we have the opportunity to take a greater responsibility for our common future, we have to commit ourselves to implementing climate action here at home. It would have been fully possible to do in a revised budget. This was the last chance the government had to not only hesitate to admit in this hall that growing inequality and poverty is a problem, but show that there is political will to do something about it. She can't succeed with everything. It's dangerous to say that you have the goal of fighting under. But it's better to try than not to try. As Vigdi's Hjorth once said, those who should be ashamed are not ashamed. There are appropriate words for this debate too, because there are some representatives in this Chamber, and some councillors in this Chamber, who probably also know with themselves that during these four years they should have tried harder. They could not succeed. Yes, so unfair and so brutal is politics. But at least they should have tried. Better illustration than there is not that we need a new majority, a new government and a new policy. This election campaign is going to be a sign of inequality. I'm happy to have a large number of people who are willing to try.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2351	Education is crucial to creating a society with opportunities for all, for work for all and for well-being for all. Our society imposes high standards of competence. We need a lot of good professionals in the future. For this reason, the Labour Party will strengthen the profession and we will create a professional profession. Then we have to bet on recruitment, and we have to work against social dumping, so that there is a working life that young people want to go to. Then we have to make sure that there are good teachers with good equipment at school, and the students have to get a lesson when they are ready for it. It is important that you can change education in the course, that you can choose from specialisation to professional and vice versa, so that we give our students flexibility and good opportunities. So we have to think that we're content to think about recruiting. There are no places where it is as gender-based as in professional subjects. It's changed very little in recent years. I think it would be much more attractive if there was a better gender balance in the profession. So I want to say, sometimes I have to think that there are a lot of people here in this room over the course of these four years who have been talking about the profession, but sometimes I feel that it's just talking, that they really don't care. It's the same thing when we talk about equality. It's very nice when we talk about women entering ASA or men in kindergarten and stuff like that, but if we talk about girls in cars and electronics, a lot of people are wandering in their eyes, because they don't care when it comes to professionalism. I know that I really wanted to say that today, because I thought we should bet on professional matters, we have to do it all the way, and we have to really care, it's not just talking in this room. I am so lucky that I will be working all the time with a professional when I get out of this house, so I can make sure that I work further. I first want to thank the President for good cooperation, and thank all the co-representatives for very good cooperation for twelve years. It's our honor. And then I want to thank everyone who's added to this house, because they're the best, who does the everyday life for us who's up here. Then I'm going to quit here and just say that now I'm going to work out so that we get a new government to the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2368	Good President! Fantastic President, you can add today! I have taken the floor to remind the Storting of a decision that has been made. It's about foster parents losing social security benefits in case of illness or unemployment. These are people who are losing out on an important social mission: to open the door and the heart of young people who need a new home. The Decision reads as follows: ‘The government is requesting the prompt introduction of a transitional scheme for foster parents on social security benefits, which ensures that they do not lose out financially on being foster parents. The scheme shall apply until a new legislation on foster homes is in place.» In the discussion of the matter and in the debate here in Stortinget, it was emphasised how important it is that the change be implemented quickly, that Nav should be notified immediately and also encouraged to be flexible in meeting the families who have been asked to receive a refund from Nav. The word ‘fastest’ was clearly highlighted, precisely because we need a mechanism until a new regulation is in place, a transitional arrangement. That's what's decided. This is a matter which does not concern many people, but which is absolutely crucial for them. That's why I was both disappointed and surprised that this seems to go out on time, and that decisions to correct the injustice are not noticed in real life. That's why I want to share an excerpt from an e-mail from a family that's hit: Then there was another e-mail from us on the occasion of the matter. Before the weekend we examined what this decision in Stortinget means for foster parents and us personally. We were rather disappointed and despaired after talking to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The transitional arrangements will not enter into force until next year's budget has been adopted, as we were told. Then new guidelines shall be written and incorporated into the Nav Code. In turn, all foster parents who come into our situation this year still have the same challenges or problems, and the foster children still have to feel insecure. It's very sad. For us personally it means that with Nav's claim against us and lost social benefits we lose approx. NOK 700,000 this year on our assignment. It's just tragic. Then there are many foster children who must feel insecure for a long time. That's who we're fighting for. I hope the Minister of Labour can take the floor and say that this is a misunderstanding, that we are in the process, the message has been sent out, the transitional arrangements are in place. If not, I would urge everyone to take a new assessment and vote in favour of proposal No. 96, that a transitional arrangement be put in place immediately. It deserves the foster children and their parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2387	Before Olemic Thommess takes over the Presidential seat – and I lose my voice – this President would like to thank him. Thank you so much for the cooperation over eight years in the presidency, and in fact four years before that as President-in-Office. It's been a lot of fun, and it's been really nice working together. Now I thank you for leaving this place to the Olemic Thommess. That's the last time I sit here. [[Applause from the centre]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2400	Then I give the word to the next speaker, which is Karianne O. Heavy, and thank Marit for her efforts for many, many years!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2405	In Norway, we live by each other’s work and not by others’ work. Women's participation in the world of work is more important to us as a nation than what oil revenue is. We have a long tradition of solving the big problems together, and our strength lies in strong community and belief that work is the basis for everything. It has actually made us the world's best country to live in. But where the Workers' Party puts work and fair distribution, where everyone is going, first, we have now for four years had a government where tax cuts have always been the answer. The results are clear: increased differences and sales of our common values. So the truth has come out: 20 billion. kr in tax cuts have ended up in the pockets of the fig a long time ago. In the last four years, Norway has had a government that helps to increase differences by providing tax cuts to those who have the most in the past, rather than investing in work, education, health and school. On average, the richest pro-mill in Norway has received 264 000 kroner in tax cuts in the last four years. The figure for the rest of the population seems to be tax havens. These are the hard facts about government policy after four years – a policy that both the Right and the Advance Party will continue if they win the harvest's elections. The Labour Party wants values to be created throughout the country. Values come from every crick and hook, from city and country, from north to south, and from the health worker and the electrical engineer. That's what's given us jobs and the welfare community we know. That's also why the Workers' Party chooses that everyone should join, and that everyone should have equal opportunities no matter who we are, and where we live. It's about believing in the community, we're getting more together than each of us. The aim is to work for everyone and to create safe and new jobs rather than tax cuts for those who have the most of them. Because we think that the big problems we do best together. If we are to ensure work, opportunities and security for all, we need more fellowship, not less. That's enough. The Labour Party wants a new government with a new policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2416	It's the last day of the meeting in the period, and it's time to settle the status. The government will be remembered for tax cuts over community and work. The policy of the majority has produced weak results. It's high unemployment, they push on the big tasks, the proportion of people in work is assumed to fall further, we have a weakened organized working life, we have a weakened working environment law, we have weaker production growth, and we see increased differences. The Labour Party wants safe jobs, small differences and strong communities, so we need a new majority. An area where there is a crisis, and has been for a long time, is in the media, where the economic challenges threaten the sustainability of the funding of Norwegian journalism and Norwegian content. At the same time, Norwegian media are at the forefront of digitalisation, and Norwegian journalism is of high quality. You can almost imagine that the media industry is on the edge of the dot and is going to take one step forward. It can go terribly wrong, but with the right equipment and good buoyancy you can fly high and now far. Media policy is such a package of equipment. This is why the Labour Party has been at the forefront of the development of media policy throughout the period, for example. then an approximately total collapse pressured the government to expand the zero VAT. However, the changes had major weaknesses due to the exclusion of depth and niche journalism and individual articles from the exemption. It inhibits innovation, and it gives bad impetus. That is why the Labour Party is today promoting a proposal that this should be put in place, that depth and niche journalism and individual articles should be included, and we hope that several parties will vote in favour of that proposal. The signals from a collective Media Norway are to reach it urgently. So did the Media Multiplicity Committee. I would therefore like to make it clear that the Labour Party is ready at any time if the Minister for Culture wants to discuss the follow-up to the proposals of the Committee on the Media Diversity with us. Industries in crisis need a government that listens, sees, and takes the challenges seriously. We want a policy that ensures Norwegian jobs and Norwegian content, and therefore we promote that proposal, together with a number of other proposals, to strengthen Norwegian media policy, to strengthen Norwegian media, and to strengthen Norwegian jobs and Norwegian content.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2431	The centre party wants the school to offer equal opportunities, stimulate and motivate both those who want an academic career and those who want a professional career. Unfortunately, this government has placed the most emphasis on the academic road. The centre party has warned in posts after posting against an too narrow school. Despite the fact that the Storting made important decisions in the past period, the government's poor follow-up has led to the school losing grip on the practical and aesthetic subjects. In the Center Party, we're impatient. We want more people to choose a profession, and we want them to be able to do it. For this reason, the Central Party wants all secondary schools to offer work subjects. Therefore, the Centre Party wants exchange models to be an option for all. Exchanges between school and enterprise, or between theory and practice, must be a general rule if we want many and good skilled workers in the future. I was sent an article not long ago. It was about a specialist in car damage, paint and bodywork. After a visit of a Vg1 class from the damage line, which even after six months in school had not taken a screen or a door on a car, ask the specialist stated: Where do we want to go with the students when they do not come into contact with the products? I want to give credit to the government for increasing the apprentice grant. It's important. In the revised budget, the Centre Party proposes to further increase the apprenticeship grant in order to make it easier for businesses to say yes to an apprentice. Furthermore, the Centre Group prioritises funds to allow vocational trainers to host companies, as well as increasing equipment grant rates by 18.5 million. kr. Both are measures to make training more relevant. The country is diverse, and in many places students have to move on to higher education. These students need follow-up, and they should have no more disadvantages than necessary compared to home-dwelling students. Therefore, the Centre Party proposes to abolish the requirement testing of the housing allowance and to increase the housing allowance by NOK 1000. In total, the Centre Party proposes action in the field of vocational training for 226 million. in a true professional profession. During the two periods I have been allowed to be a staggering representative, I have worked to ensure that the practical subjects have better position and higher status in the school. It is therefore excellent for me to refer to the central party's bet on precisely these subjects in the revised budget in my last post in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2452	When you listen to the debate, you'd think everything is going on, but it's not. After four years with the Right and the Advance Party in government, Norway remains one of the countries where differences are small. Norway is constantly cutting away in one of the world’s best countries to live in and is the world’s second best country to be gay. When we see the growth in the economy and the unemployment is going down, it starts to look like it's going better. That doesn't mean everything's good. A lot can go better. That's why we have to work to continue in government. Everyone has access to tax-funded schools and reasonable health services because distribution policy is about something more than just how hard a tax is the richest, but how government revenues are actually distributed. I want to remind you that the 10 pst. The richest pay about 37.8 pst. of all personal taxes. Those with the widest shoulders carry the heaviest burden, and we're all for that. If we had completely removed the property tax, they would still pay 37 pst. of all personal taxes. Yes, the Right Party and the Advance Party have kept their electoral commitments to reduce taxes and taxes in Norway. If we are to facilitate business and jobs, value creation that finance the good left-hand side is so eager to distribute, taxes cannot be at a level that prevents economic growth, change and development. I'm for taxes to be paid with pleasure just because we get pleasure from a good school, health care and infrastructure all over the country. These are the areas where the Right and Advance Party have invested most in this government period, while providing cheaper kindergartens and free core time for low-income families. Hospital cows are reduced and several receive treatment. There is no contrast between tax relief and welfare. The government has raised the most vulnerable through efforts to improve drug treatment and multiple psychologists, increased scholarship rates for low-income students and rights-based user-driven personal assistants to help people with disabilities in their everyday lives – much for those who have at least before. At the same time, we've allowed liquorice pipes, sigway and pro boxing. The right is for a social security network, but not for payments of social security schemes to be higher than the salary when the recipient was in work. It's going to pay off to work. Therefore, the change in the child supplement was correct. SV would like to make a choice for the unemployed to receive holiday pay, which is usually a service when they are at work, but the aim of unemployment benefit is to be temporarily guaranteed income until a new job is created. Holiday pay is paid up to one and a half years after you started to earn the rights, at a time when most of the unemployed are in a new job. I myself got paid holiday money from Nav after I started to meet at Stortinget and had a big allowance – a compensation the representative Valen thinks is too high, but I should earn holiday money from Nav. The job isn't done. There's a lot left. That's why I'm going to keep working for us to be in government. I want to end by thanking for a good cooperation in the committee and wish everyone a really good summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2468	Today's debate is the last in this period, and to me it's the last post from this pulpit. As many speakers before me have done, I will look back at this period, which, for my party, the Progress Party, is historic, as the parties of government for the first time since the party was established. And the Progress Party has delivered. As a government party in a minority government, it is a pleasure to be able to look back on record delivery in transport – with an NTP that surpasses everything that has been delivered in many, many decades, as well as being able to reduce maintenance maintenance, which became record-breaking with red-green government. We have delivered within the car and car charges with a conversion that gives a good incentive to buy a low or zero emission car, plus that we have reduced costs for people most by reducing or removing charges. We have been given control of an immigration that was in the process of giving us Swedish states, which would harm those who are coming forward, and those who have been suspended, and society in general. I'm very happy about that. Following a request from Stortinget, the government also proposed a tax incentive scheme for long-term investment in start-up companies now in the revised budget. It will be very useful for entrepreneurs and start-ups in the future and hopefully strengthen the necessary conversion and create many new jobs. Furthermore, we have reduced the annual costs of business, by complying with laws and regulations, by 15 billion. kr. Thus, the business simplification objectives of the government have been achieved. We have also been able to legislate net wages for our seafarers plus increases in the amount of reimbursement for the first time in a long time. All this and much more, which I do not have time to mention, have been carried out at the same time as the Norwegian economy has been facing the greatest setback since the banking crisis in the early 1990s. Not least, it has been implemented through a defensive economic policy based on the policy of action on the use of oil revenues. Then we can enjoy record large exports of salmon and whitefish in value, and optimism is great along our long-distance coast in the fishing industry. The last news, which was announced today, is the increase in the quota ceiling that will give our fishing fleet and fishermen the additional opportunity to increase value and pay, which in turn will lead to the contracting of new fishing boats from our yard that change from the construction of offshore vessels. Then I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank me after eight years as a big representative for More and Romesdal and the Progress Party. I thank you for your cooperation with colleagues in the Committee on Energy and the Environment and, last but not least, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, where I have been a member for the last two years. Thanks also to state councils, state secretaries and advisers and all those who at this house have contributed to this amazing journey over these eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2493	Two challenges remain for decades to come. One is what we're going to live on, that is, our nature. Climate change is a threat to nature, but also to ourselves. They threaten food production, drive people on the run and lead to several natural disasters. Equally dramatic: we're in the middle of what researchers call the sixth mass extinction of species. The number of species is reduced 1000 to 10,000 times faster than normal. If we continue to throw plastic like this, there may be more plastic than fish in the world ocean in 2050. Without the climate and the environment in balance, social and economic progress becomes very difficult, if not impossible. We depend on the environment and the climate, but now the environment and the climate are also dependent on us. Norway has every right to do more than our job at home and to be a world leader. The government has not shown sufficient will and ability to do so. The second challenge is how to live together and form good and functioning communities across classes, gender, culture and religion – globally, by contributing to development, peace and reconciliation, but it meets us much stronger in our own country than we are watered to. In 1960, Norway was a nearly entirely white and Christian country. Now we're made up of people with very different backgrounds. My simple claim is that as cultural and religious diversity increases, other communities that bind us together must become stronger. It is even more important that inequality is small. Social differences are married to social cohesion. Fair distribution must dominate tax policy, labour policy, housing policy – yes, policy, simply. It's crucial that we participate in common arenas to evolve. It begins in childhood, by allowing everyone to go to kindergarten and at the SFO, that the quality of school is top, that work against violence against children, as the most cruel crime it is, is given priority – simply that children and young people are put first. We need to strengthen the community of values. We, who are already here, must want immigrants to become part of our community and participate in our social life. The people who come here must be willing to participate in a new society, with the basic values and norms that exist here. Taking care of the Norwegian values is not to keep them, but to move them forward – with the same core, perhaps slightly different wrapping, and fortunately also with important progress that over time becomes a value change. But we have to have strong common values. Without a strong vi, Norway is not Norway. I'm overconfident that it's not the Right and the Progress Party that can hire us in the right way to meet the two major challenges. There is a new centre-left in Norwegian and international policies that can do. The first step is a new government and a new policy for the fall. Thank you for me. ‘I’ll be back’ — perhaps, at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2514	In the autumn of 2015, immigration entered Norway almost out of control. One of the reasons was the situation we saw at Storskog. It took time – months – from the time we saw a cautious inflow, until it became almost chaotic. The right-hand party government had not been able to act until the situation became almost unsustainable. It had a little bit to do with the partnership they had with the Christian People's Party and the Left, which mutually blocked each other. We in the Central Party challenged the government at an early stage, in November, to change the text of the travel document to people who applied for Norway so that they could be refused access. It happened, after a little over and over, November 24th. A few days later, the inflow ended – until this week. We have seen that six people have again crossed the border on Storskog without a Schengen visa. Now the situation is manageable. It is important that the government immediately initiate a work, so that you get an overview of what is happening, and so that we do not get back into the situation we saw in the autumn of 2015. It's not desirable for anyone. So it's important: in the round we had in the autumn of 2015, there were many meetings. We met with former human rights judge Hanne Sophie Count. She was very clear to us in the Central Party that Norway has the opportunity to reject people at the border on the grounds that they already come from a safe country. We have always had good cooperation with Russia, we have had a peaceful border with Russia over time, and Russia is a safe country. For the Central Party, it is essential that the government act clearly and is predictable when we see what is now going to happen – but I don't think it is going to happen, because we have learned, we have gained knowledge – and that, if necessary, we also use the right to close the border at Storskog. What was important in the autumn of 2015 was that we in Stortinget were able to stand together when it was difficult. We got control of the situation. When we do not have control, there are contradictions, tensions – and there is a cause for concern in the long term. That is why it is important – when we see that there have been some new events in Storskog – that the government at an early stage takes it up, has good dialogue with the Russian authorities and ensures that we do not get the kind of uncertainty and unrest that we had in the autumn of 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2525	It might look like there's been some sort of goal here for the government and the support parties to calm each other down by how agreeable and nice you've been through these years. I see that a speech point that is obviously widely distributed is that we have agreed on eight budgets. Strictly speaking, there was agreement on an additional option, three budgets, four revisions, one of which was the revision of an additional option. It went quite well until Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, would present his own budget. That's when we kind of really saw the big differences within the government and between the supporting parties. It's been tough. There have been support parties and a government that has shown little or no loyalty between themselves. We've seen a great deal of settlement between leading figures in the games, which have almost dispelled each other on the New Day eighteen. Trine Skei Grande has said that Erna and Siv have disappointed her greatly. There has been a breach of written promises about the green shift, which had to be threatened with a near-government crisis. The size was put in a situation that had never been in before. But today it is clearly said: we have achieved this together. We did this. We wouldn't be able to do this with anyone else. The cooperation has been incredibly good. You may need to tell each other in this Chamber, but I think the voters will ask both the Christian People's Party and the Left in the elections: is it really that we share our views on climate policy with the Progress Party? Is it really so that in the Christian People's Party we share human vision in the case of refugees and immigrants, with the Advance Party? Then I think it might be hard to say: remember the painless cooperation we've had about the budgets, about economic policy, and how many of our things we've been through. I think what's living out there in the media picture is something completely different. I think the voters see some parties that have supported a government they couldn't really stand for 100 pst. But it's going to be interesting to follow. I think the middle parties meeting with the voters will lose weight in owning all the decisions this government has taken, completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2536	When I hear the debate here today, it is easy once again to be reminded that this year's elections can be a very important time gap for the Northern Norwegian part of the country. We have left behind three and a half years with a new government and a new policy for North Norway. It has been crucial for the optimism we now see in the continent. It's about having a policy that says yes to North Norway, a part of the country with a lot of resources and long distances. It requires a policy course that says yes to take these opportunities into account and that is also willing to invest to build up both under optimism and to facilitate growth through critical needs for road investment and necessary hard and soft infrastructure such as everything from research and higher education to healthcare, further training of teachers, construction of student housing – to mention something. We've done a lot. There is little doubt that we have experienced a time gap in this way, because the bet has been large, and the growth has been similar in size. The challenge in the Nordic region is more about recruiting labour to meet the opportunities rather than worrying about the unemployment that is almost entirely absent. So we need politicians who are willing to face the future with technology optimization and who want growth that gives good framework conditions. This is because only on this basis do we create opportunities to build on well-being and secure jobs. Then it's quite strange to follow, for example. the property tax debate here in the hall, perhaps especially in the last few days. It is produced as an important prerequisite for social cohesion. But get the denominator that the 10 pst. The richest pay 37.8 pst. of taxes on persons with property taxes, but 37 pst. without. In other words, this is actually a tax debate that is covert rhetoric, for what does not come out is that in my capital-poor country, we are losing 600 million. DKK annually due to taxes on wealth. At the same time, we see that foreign owners who sit on the other side of the Swedish border or elsewhere in the world can deliver tenders with some percentages better margin than our North Norwegian-owned companies have the opportunity. With small margins, a small amount of money can easily be lost on some contracts, but when one still has to pay the property tax, it is this that can roll over family businesses, of which we need more, not less. In this way, for example. Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, who took a round here with the need for Northern Norse capital, also took a round in his own party on how fiscal policy turns out in our part of the country. The health queues are going down, things are going better in school, the absence has fallen, the defense has got a historic promise, we're researching as never before, the founder boom has created a lot of good jobs in the north, we're building roads, we're connecting the country, and we're strengthening Norwegian competitiveness. There is therefore no doubt that we still need the Right at the rudder after the autumn's choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2549	There are many colleagues we have to say good things about today, and this financial committee is soon history, believe it or not. I would like to take the opportunity to thank you. I would like to thank the Members of the Committee on Finance, the other members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and, in particular, the chairman of the committee, Mr Hans Olav Syversen. I have not fully understood what has taken place in all the civil budget negotiations. But I have realized that there has been something demanding about a couple of crossroads, and I also want to pay tribute to the committee leader for the fact that, in those crossroads, he has been concerned with ensuring the rights of the opposition and our ability to handle the budget in charge. I think it's nice to be told here before we break up. It's not just anger attached to this. I think the representative Hille said well in his speech – a civil majority means that civil policy is being pursued. Once the ageing period is over, there will also be the possibility of getting a new number of economies of scale and a different direction. We need that. Because while the world outside of us is becoming more and more concerned with the relationship between increased inequality and weak growth in almost all Western economies, in Norway we have a government that lives on in the belief that migration and growth are the best way of getting them at the top even more. It's an old-fashioned way of thinking, it's out of date, and the recipe doesn't work. It's not just tax policy that makes inequalities increase. Yesterday we received a report that shows that the privatisation reform in hospitals reinforces the differences in Health-Norway. But I'm perhaps the most concerned about what's going on in the workplace, with a falling level of organization. Without representative parties, collective wage formation is put under pressure, and it affects competitiveness and distribution and, in particular, results in more pressure. Little else is more important. This is not election tactics. With tighter budgets in the future, we have to spend the money properly. We're going to build the ability to transform from below, invest in people and not believe that at the top they're going to lift us alone. That is why we are going to vote for new, comprehensive reforms for our working life. The alternative is more exclusion and a difference which is reinforced by a tax policy that increases differences rather than reduce them. Why is it so serious? This, of course, is about individuals, but also about us as societies and what kind of societies we're going to be. We have the most adaptable workforce in the world. Norwegian trade union movement is not governed by machine-crackers or protectionists as we see in some other countries. When we embrace what's given us so much opportunities and so much wealth, it's because we have a model that's based on sharing risk, and we share winnings. That's what we're playing at by letting the differences continue to increase, and that's in many ways what we're facing at the time of the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2565	The revised debate before a major election usually uses to be an exhilarating settlement between position and opposition. It's probably just the finance minister and I of us who are in the room now, who have five such debates behind us, and each of us has been special because they've led towards a big shot. I don't think I've ever been to a revised debate where the government parties have been so retiring, and where the support parties have been so invisible. At a point after the opposition – employment trends, distribution policies, district policies, the direction of Norway – we have gone from a very strong growth situation in employment in Norway to a situation where it is now completely flat, where many states experience a decline in employment and some experience great unemployment, where the money is spent on the tax cuts that we have discussed once and which some laws are going to continue, while others want to spend money on school and elderly care. And unlike the way the mood was in the fall of 2013, when a bourgeois majority was to give bourgeois government – the four would cooperate, and the four had a vision! Now it's all dead. It actually tells a little bit about the lack of enthusiasm around the policies that have been pursued. I see that the commentators write that it is absolutely amazing that Erna Solberg has managed to rule Norway for four years. Well, you've had the largest majority in the United Kingdom that some government has had in recent times. There have been 96 growth representatives – 95 after we received an announcement yesterday – who have been the parliamentary basis of the government. Nevertheless, progress has been completely lost. But that's not strange, because every time the Right is in government, the reaction is that we don't want any more of this. That was the consequence after four years of Bondevik's government, that was the consequence after four years of Willoch's government, even though it took a few months before the change came, and we see that on the polls now the consequence is this time. Norway needs a different course. The people want a different majority. We in the opposition are ready to take over, and we're going to deliver some other results. We can't afford the employment rate to keep falling. We can't afford to spend billions on tax cuts that don't work, and we can't afford the differences in Norway to increase. We have a tighter room for action in the years to come. When the Minister of Finance's party proposes to use twice as much space each year for tax cuts, this is not going to happen – we have to choose a different course for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2578	Since it is my last day today, I need to record one thing, and it is that after the 2013 elections I tweeted that the Progress Party was a right-wing populist party, like the Danish People's Party and the Swedish Democrats. It got Erna Solberg in a very small prime minister way to say: ‘Heikki is a little freshness, but he occasionally does not fit his mouth to say it straight out. He should know much better than this." I'm both a fresh and less than average tall, but do I know better? Erna Solberg knows that she has invited some of the toughest forces in Norwegian government policy, and it has changed Norwegian policy. It was Erna Solberg who thought it was good to invite the party to Per Sandberg into the government, who has explained to TV 2's viewers that different races, religions and cultures should not be mixed if we are to have a harmonious society in Norway, or bigot Ulf Leirstein, who gave up on Facebook that Somalis are a dungy people from a dungy country, and Sylvi Listhaug, who said: ‘Human CO2 emissions have not been proven to lead to climate change. It is primarily an excuse to introduce more taxes and taxes.» What characterises right-wing populistic parties is that they are anti-immigrant and climate negators. These destructive social views have been invited for the first time by Prime Minister Solberg to the government. With government climate negators, greenhouse gas emissions have stopped going down and instead flattened out. With anti-immigrant people in government, Norway is hanging out in the New York Times as one of the countries of the world with the most severe return policy – all while responsible Minister Listhaug applauds with smileys, thumbs up and equal and part if you agree. I know what Erna Solberg's legacy should be: she should be remembered as the prime minister who allowed climate dissidents to control climate policy at a time when the world was heading for dangerous climate change and more than ever needed action in front of words in climate policy, the prime minister who let the anti-immigrants steer refugee policy at a time when the world experienced the greatest refugee disaster after World War II and made Norway colder – everything while she has sought to ridicule her critics by saying that they do not fit her mouth. I shall honestly say that that is not all I have said about the Prime Minister, who should have been said, but I had received respect for the Prime Minister if she would be so honest to admit that I was right about the Progress Party, and that she was wrong. I hope and believe that the judgment of history gives me the right. And we can always choose another way. I hope for the next four years again Norway will take a better direction, with more justice, not most for the richest, with climate change and with a solidarity of refugee policy where we take our share of responsibility for creating a better Norway and a better world. I'll work for that. Thank you for me!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2597	The budgets often deal with calculations. I've been looking at some problems over the last few days. I've looked at the calculation where the government claims that 264 500 kroner for those who have the most, obviously is a smaller sum than a couple of thousand bills, which those who have little have got. I've calculated and calculated, and I can't get this math to go up correctly. I am quite sure that all those with small incomes and who have paid taxes, much more than the richest, would have gladly exchanged, so that they had accepted 264 500 kroner, and then those who have high incomes and high wealth could have received 2000 kroner. 367 families with children have lost approx. NOK 29 000 a year to live for. They have a caregiver who is disabled and have so low income that they qualified for the children’s supplement that has been tried and tested. So these are some of the poorest families that we have in the country, and that have kids, and that somehow will get a job and get less tired of being poor. This math doesn't go up for these families, and that's what's terrible. Now we've heard the government stand here and say it goes so well into this country. Yes, most things are going well in this country, so why can't we afford these families? Since this government took over, there is a place between 15 000 and 20,000 people who have lost their right to housing. I have gone to the House Bank and asked: How has this happened? The bank says there are two things. One is that the government has not raised the level because housing expenditure has increased violently in this country – and because many disabled people are now falling out of the scheme. What's equal to these? Well, it's that they have extremely low income. At the same time, the population of Norway has increased by several hundred thousand. Housing prices have increased, and the state contributes less today than it did in 2009 to helping those who cannot afford an owner-occupied dwelling. It's going to cost you a little bit of money. But this country that's going so well should be able to afford it. It's really true that Norway needs a new government, because we can do it much better.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2606	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2611	Progress party leader and finance minister Siv Jensen has experienced an increase in fuel charges in more than one year than in eight red-green years, as Erna Solberg said. That was the opposite of the Progress Party promised. Progress party leader and finance minister Siv Jensen has experienced over 1,000 new bureaucrats in the department and directorate, according to diffi. It was absolutely the opposite of the Progress Party promised, they promised that they would go to war against bureaucracy. But what people around Norway have experienced is a massive centralisation of services. The last Progress Party is trying to use its power in this period, is to push through municipal mergers by coercion. And when one of their representatives votes by their own convictions, they try to exclude her from international bodies. What was to begin as a local democracy reform ended up as a forced reform. Four years of centralization is enough, the country needs a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2617	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2633	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2640	I've had a lot of posts from this pulpit. It has been about everything from South Africa to jobs in Oslo. I had really not thought that my last article was about the Rules of Procedure, but that was the way it was. Rules are also a prerequisite for democracy. The Rules of Procedure Committee was appointed by the Presidency on 16 June 2016 and we were to make proposals for amendments to the Storting Rules of Procedure. We were also commissioned to submit proposals for amendments to Section 9 of the Regulations on the register of the duties and financial interests of large-scale representatives in indirect ownership, as well as proposals for amendments to the law on large-scale compensation. The last time, the Committee's proposal for amendments to the Grand Prix Bill, was dealt with as a matter of its own last week. The Committee has been composed of one representative from each party plus the undersigned. The Presidency has largely followed the majority of the recommendations of the Regulatory Committee, but on a few points the presidency has also divided into a majority and a minority. The Presidency has otherwise proposed changes and adjustments on a few points. For example, we're going to go to bed. to monitor the procedures for reconciliation in the parliaments of other countries and to propose alternatives to current practice during the next major period. Against this background, it is a little strange that SV is today promoting very concrete proposals for new voting times, taking into account that we are now proposing that it be investigated. The Presidency also considers that the Committee of the Rules of Procedure's proposal for a revised time limit in the budgetary procedure should be examined in more detail. Then we propose that the rule that all parties should be represented in the Financial Committee be formalised. All parties shall still be entitled to membership of the Control and Constitutional Committee. The Election Committee may, under specified conditions, waive the obligation to be represented in the Financial Committee or to agree that the member of the Financial Committee is also a member of another Scientific Committee. No changes are proposed in the number of standing committees. It has really been discussed quite thoroughly. However, a number of adjustments are proposed in the case-sharing between the committees, and here I refer to the vote and do not go into detail on this. A majority of the Presidency proposes that minority rights of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee be clarified to clarify that the minority's right to conduct investigations also applies after a case has been opened. There was unanimity within the Regulatory Committee, but there is a minority who are in favour of anything else in the presidency. We believe that a deadline should be introduced – 10 April – for when proposals and communications, as well as proposals for representatives and interpellations must be promoted in order to be expected to be dealt with before the Stortinget splits in June. I stress that there will be nothing in the way of promoting cases after this deadline, but it cannot be assumed that the matter is dealt with by Stortinget before the summer. This is actually a formalisation of practice. Derogations are, of course, made for cases that are presented in May and June following established practice, such as drug use and drug use. revised national budget. The number of first posts in so-called free debates is proposed to be reduced to 15 minutes. However, if there is a discussion procedure, it will be possible to set longer speaking time, so in practice this is not the big difference. Otherwise, debates are now being proposed following oral submissions to be discussed at a later meeting, subject to the rules of general political debate. That means that the restrictions that apply in speaking time to these debates will not apply to parliamentary leaders. That means, therefore, that parliamentary leaders will now have more speaking time, i.e. more speeches, in more debates than has been the case today. It is also proposed that all amendments enter into force at the same time as the new Stortinget meets in October 2017. In conclusion, let me stress that in the process we have had close contact with the party groups in particular. Both the individual members have had it along the way, in addition to the fact that the committee voting itself was sent to all the party groups for consideration. It is our impression that they have been dealt with in a rather thorough manner before the subsequent proceedings of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2665	I would like to start by thanking the chairman of the Regulatory Committee, Marit Nybakk, to unload this work through the Regulatory Committee. Although the representative himself may find it strange that it is this matter that the representative ends his career at Stortinget after 31 years, I have to say, as a member of the Regulatory Committee, that it was very appropriate, because in a matter like this, it is also about bringing the story with him – and it has been with the chairman of the Regulatory Committee in a rich way. So thank you so much for that work. The Rules of Procedure Committee has given its opinion on the Presidency, and it is the presidency that is presenting the matter today. I will start by recording the suggestion that the right is behind specifically in the setting. We have heard the committees working in that work within the Regulatory Committee. The members of the Committees have had the opportunity to reflect for four years on the adequacy of the area of responsibility within the Committees, or whether other experiences have been gained along the way in that work. It is true that the case rapporteur has also presented that the party groups have been closely involved in this work and along the way in the work. I think the rapporteur has given an excellent account of the discussions and discussions we have had in the Committee on Rules of Procedure. It may be worth recalling that the selection is over the magnification and that the magnification should reflect the force ratio with which the voters in a selection have compounded The Size. There are in particular three areas where the Stortinget has a clear and independent responsibility. It's giving the country a government budget, so it's an obligation to sit on the finance committee. The second obligation, of course, is that we should make, amend and adjust laws to the extent necessary. And the third is to have control that the administration actually implements the decisions made in Stortinget, which are, in that sense, a general management of the administration. As the rapporteur also pointed out, it has been a discussion of the committee structure, but we have chosen to maintain the committee structure that is, unless adjustments in the responsibilities are made. We have also discussed what is going on at hearings and recommend that, as a general rule, consultations should take place at a time when there are no meetings in plenary. There are exceptions where there are special reasons, but the general rule is that representatives, whether they are in a one-man group or in a large party group, should have the opportunity to follow the debate in plenary. There have been debates on the timing of voting both in this great and in the previous great crowd. As far as the Right is concerned, we are now well pleased that experience is actually gained from the parliaments of other countries and a review of when voting should take place. I dare remind you that today's system can have both advantages and disadvantages, but adding voting to other times also has some consequences that can bind up the representatives to a greater extent than today's organisation. It will be presented the next period, the next presidency and the next big deal. We have to go back to 1889 in the text where you had one hour maximum speaking time, and that other posts had to be limited to 20 minutes. It's relatively revolutionary when we go from 30 minutes to 15 minutes, but that's what we're suggesting in this case. I am not going to get into the other areas much more, because the rapporteur has explained well. But I would like to remind you that, in particular, what goes on in the budget for the Grand Duchy has been added to the Financial Committee, which has the other financial institutions, and that what goes on in the royal house, which has been on the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, goes on to the Municipal Committee. It is well in line with the responsibilities of the Ministry of Local Affairs. Otherwise, the discussions and discussions we have had in the Regulatory Committee have been well explained, and I believe that at the end of the next period there will also be a review of the fact that experience is constantly being reaped along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2686	Fourth Vice President Injerd Schou has taken up the suggestion to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2691	I have enjoyed sitting on the Regulatory Committee when we have worked through opportunities to improve and adjust the workings of Storting, an interesting and, I would say, useful work at the pace of a period. The work has been well-managed by the great representative Marit Nybakk. Let me focus on some of the suggestions. It has been assessed whether responsibility for the Planning and Building Act should be brought together in one committee. I belong to the minority who believe that the Energy and Environment Committee should continue to be responsible for dealing with matters relating to regional planning. This is very often about important environmental policy developments. The Christian People's Party Group, however, recommends that the cultural memory field be well transferred to the family and cultural committee. It will provide greater opportunities to view cultural memories in the context of the other cultural field. The most important thing for my party, however, is that we must have a trade committee with a clear child and family perspective. For this reason, we strongly want the kindergarten sector to remain in the family and culture committee in the future. Kindergarten is something else a school. It's something other than education. Children's play must still have the right to drive. It's a shame that only the Christian People's Party and the Center Party see this point. It may be reasonable and logical for everything relating to Defence to be dealt with in the Defence Committee. We believe that the Defence Ombudsman, who has a completely different role to that of defence policy, should sort under the Control and Constitutional Committee. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has an important role, but it may be tempting at times to claim to deal with both the one and the other. The Christian People's Party believes that the investigations and work of the Control Committee should be limited to matters which might lead to constitutional or parliamentary responsibility for the members of the Government. In a well-functioning rule of the people, the treatment of the majority of minorities is a test piece of roof height and real democracy. It has been important, on the part of the Regulatory Committee, to clarify today's rules so as to make it clear from the Rules of Procedure of the Control Committee that the minority has the right to decide on subsequent investigations after a case has been opened. We understand the majority's logic in not allowing hearings in parallel with plenary sessions. Nevertheless, we believe that the current rule must be continued. If, as a general rule, there is no possibility of holding hearings at the same time as plenary sessions, the time of the representatives will be so much tied up in the capital as to make it difficult to maintain contact with their own constituency. In addition, it would weaken the ability of the committees to hold hearings during busy periods on the Stortinget. The Committee of the Rules of Procedure has also discussed whether votes in the Storting should be held at a specific time, including in particular: for representatives with family and small children. At 15 o'clock we thought we could be appropriate, and voting the next day if the debate lasts beyond the evening. However, we agree with the presidency's position, which will gain experience from other parliaments on this, and follow up on the matter during the next major period. Finally, I would like to address the Christian People's Party's proposal No. 3, 4 and 5, and then I want to take the opportunity to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2716	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2721	The chairperson of the Regulatory Committee, the representative of Nybakk, gave a very good overview of the evaluations and discussions that the Committee has had. I'm just going to focus on a few points that I think there's reason to mention specifically. One is that the Center Party is very pleased that one specifies that all parties should be represented in the Financial Committee. We believe that in many ways it is one of the most basic committees in Stortinget, and that the parties should be represented there as far as possible, and that there must be very special reasons why one is not represented in that committee. As far as the composition of the committees is concerned, we are in some majority and minority groups in the Regulatory Committee, and this is also reflected in the presidency's position. We are part of the majority of the Regulatory Committee that wants to change responsibility for regional planning, so that it is moved from the Energy and Environment Committee to the Municipal Committee. On the other hand, we are part of the minority on the issue of cultural memories, which we believe should remain in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, and which should not have been transferred to the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture. Then, together with the Christian People's Party, we want the responsibility for kindergartens to remain in the family and culture committee and not be transferred to the church, education and research committee. In addition, the Central Party considers that the budget for the Stortinget and the Royal Court should remain within the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. We just have a little bit of a hard time understanding why it's being moved. As regards the budget for the Storting, it has been in that committee since the establishment of the Control Committee. We believe that this should continue, and we therefore propose it. Then we are part of the majority that wants to continue minority rights in the control committee in such a way that access to open cases should include the right to decide after the matter has been opened. I also want to mention hearings – committee hearings at the same time as big meetings or outside major meetings. The centre party is part of the minority that believes that it must also be possible to hold hearings at the same time as the grand meeting. I have to say that I am deeply concerned about a situation where all hearings are to be held outside the big meetings. I think it seems restrictive for those representatives who come from counties that are a bit outside and away from the Storting, and for their ability to perform tasks in their own constituency and counties. I also believe that this will weaken the Committee's ability to conduct hearings in busy periods at Stortinget, and I also believe, thirdly, that there will be an enormous number of requests for waivers. Therefore, the Central Party should have wanted the third paragraph of Section 27 to be continued in the way it is today, and not changed in the way it is proposed. So there's a couple more things: I also see that you can think that reducing speaking time as suggested is a pretty big step to take. But I think that makes sense. I believe that it is possible and reasonable for speakers to have a framework of 15 minutes to express their views, regardless of which committee they are in. I also think it is fully possible for most people to deliver a good and complete message at that time. To those who have to be concerned that this leads to a smaller debate in Stortinget, I must say that I would rather recommend that several of the committees be encouraged to take more line exchanges. During this period there have been too many committees that have cut out sequences in their debates, and I believe that this removes some of the dynamics of the debate in Stortinget. Finally, I would also like to say that at the time of the examination of the Rules of Procedure, there has been no proposal for a sharing of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy to set up its own Committee on Defence and Security. It's one of the questions the Center Party thinks is interesting, and we hope one will consider during the next period. We think that might make sense. With that, I take up the suggestions that the Central Party has made on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2740	The representative Marit Arnstad then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2745	Left supports setting, except for some significant points. I'll try to drag us through them. We entered this boom period with a discussion about whether or not the Climate and Environmental Protection Ministry's plan department should be moved to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation or not, which was opposed by many, among other things. Left. I still believe that it was a mistake, although it is the government that decides for itself. I thought it was right at the time that the Storting did not agree to do the same, and that land-use planning was still seen as a central part of environmental policy – including in terms of cultural memory policy – by Stortinget. There is no doubt that with regard to the environment and the degradation of natural areas, the Planning and Building Act and what is happening there are central to achieving greater coherence. It is also important to look at developments around urban areas and what are key elements of climate policy. The left will support continued regional planning in the Energy and Environment Committee and that the Stortinget does not divide this policy area. Just because the government made a mistake, the Storting need not follow and make the same mistake. We should stick to what this should be like. Some of the same arguments also lie in cultural memory policy. It should be borne in mind that one of the most important climate measures identified by the IPCC is that it is better to take care of existing settlements. And cultural memory policy is very much about avoiding loss of cultural memories and seeing the law of planning and building in connection with what is cultural memory protection. So we believe that it should also be part of the responsibility of the Committee on Energy and the Environment. That's where it belongs, along with spatial planning. If it's moved to the family and culture committee, I think it'll be more focused on what's the cultural part, that is. the realisation of the most important historical buildings, and not of what is much of the battle: the daily struggle to preserve and avoid the loss of cultural memories. So that is where we will support the proposal of the Central Party that cultural protection should continue to be in the Energy and Environment Committee. We have our own proposal in which we believe that there would have been an advantage in immigration matters and that what is about integration can be divided. This means that integration matters should lie within the Municipal and Administrative Committee. Integration policy is a central part of municipal and regional responsibility. But the issue of immigration belongs much more to the Justice Committee. We have our own proposal, which has been submitted today, about exactly that. I think that would be an advantage, both to focus more strongly on integration and to clarify the legal aspect, which is a very strong part of immigration policy. A few more things: We will support SV's proposal for a lobby register, although there are dilemmas about how to implement it. There are examples of this being done. This is about finding boundaries that can never be completely perfect, but that will nevertheless ensure a much greater transparency than what we have today. The last thing I want to mention is the Left's proposal that the committee meetings at Stortinget, which is our top elected body, our Parliament, should also be open. It's a big change for all elected bodies, and there's always a lot of resistance to making that change, but at least I don't know about any examples of having changed back, that you've repented on the transparency line, or that you've found that the work in Parliament was getting worse. There are many parliaments – perhaps the President knows better than I do – who have open meetings, and we should at least start trying at once. It is a fact that too many news from Stortinget are about leakages. It shouldn't be like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2764	The representative Ola Elvestuen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2770	I would also like to refer to the chairman of the Regulatory Committee, Marit Nybakk, his very good presentation. She gave a good summary of what we've been working on, what challenges we've been facing. So I'm just going to add some comments. Firstly, we found in SV that there has been a very good process around this with reporting on the financial interests of representatives, plus a good review of how pay is to be paid after termination of employment – shortening against other income, etc. I think we've got a good system in place. There may be some loopholes, but this is a good start that we can work from. It will ensure greater legitimacy behind the decisions of the Storting when we have such a clear obligation to report the economic interests. There will be no doubt about some decisions. When it comes to committee composition, we are opposed to moving planning to the Municipal and Management Committee from the Energy and Environment Committee. We have a lot of the same foundation that Ola Elvesuen presents here. Especially after the Great Rio Conference in the 1990s and the entire Local Agenda 21 process, etc. should integrate the environmental aspect into all planning in society. In many ways, we see this step away from the Energy and Environment Committee and over into the Municipal and Management Committee as a step away from thinking about the environment in all the planning we are doing. We also oppose – but fortunately it is a minority proposal – moving immigration cases, or asylum cases, to the Judicial Committee. We believe these things should be seen in context and should be part of the Municipal and Administrative Committee. So it's nice that it seems to be a pretty clear plural order for kindergarten to finally come where it's home, that one sees this in terms of education. Kinderhagen is part of our education system. Just enough, one learns through the way of the smallest children to learn, that is through games, but this has become, for the most part, a part of the responsibility of the Minister of Education. It is time that this too is seen in the context of the education system. So I'll just associate some comments with the other battlefields, if we can call it that. It has not been high temperature and conflict in the committee, it has been a good cooperation there, but there have been some different assessments. When it comes to hearings, for example, it is a desire to take more of the hearings out of time when there is a meeting in the hall. This means that the Hearing dialog will be much more limited. That means that the hearing will be on those days and times of the day where we usually do other things. This will probably mean that, especially during hectic periods, fewer hearings will be carried out, i.e. that the committees will limit the assessment of the time needed for hearings, because the period is simply limited. The fact that there are fewer hearings is negative for all the work the Storting is going to do. In addition, what has been a very positive development in recent years, namely that the Stortinget has got a working system that makes it easier for the big business representatives to travel around the country we are going to represent. The fact that a set of stricter rules around listening rings, what time they should be, will also limit our ability to get into the country. It looks like it's very unfortunate. Today, we propose a lobby register. Of course, it's easy to problematize possible holes that it can lead to, but one place we have to start. And then we can see how this is going to develop over time. I think finding possible loopholes that such a register can open to is not a good enough reason to oppose the establishment of a register. Then we have an own proposal that we are also promoting today, which is about voting. We've been through several nights together these weeks that have gone, where people sit and wait for the vote – over half of their size waiting, etc. If we're going to make this a modern workplace, it's time to do something about it. We go primarily for our proposal and secondary for the minority's solution to that question. Then we have an own proposal about the question time, because we think that one has to get a better dynamic in the question time than what we have today, where it's kind of a bad idea. But the question of the question hour is going to come back after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2791	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2796	The experience I have now gives two reflections: one reflection is that of hearings with which we have a lot of experience in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. And we've had to ask for exemptions from the rules over the period on some occasions to manage the program. However, I have to say that, as a principle, I support what Mr Nybakk has said – as a principle – because there is one element that it is important to mention here, namely that we have to take into account what we call the smaller parties, which are often in several committees. We have experienced that many times: one should be in the hearing, but one should also be in the hall or in another committee. That combination is very demanding for those who have fewer representatives in the hall. And from a democratic point of view, I think you should therefore keep that principle. The second thing that I have a reflection around is what is naturally discussed, I would say, the relationship between the Control and Constitutional Committee and the other committees in the Stortinget. I'm glad and I think it's absolutely right what it's supposed to be a majority for here a little later, that the Committee of Control and Constitution keeps its place as it is today, in principle. But there's one side to it that can solve this a little bit better. It is right, as was said on the part of the Christian People's Party, for example, that it is challenging for the Committee of Control and Constitution to go from one large field to another. There are many aspects in those matters that are not so special, but so detailed that it is very difficult for a committee that does not work with a subject area to be able to check well whether what is written is correct or not. The institute that I think we're using too little is consultation with the trade union committee. I do not wish to be a stranger to the fact that the forthcoming presidency, together with the forthcoming Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, is more active in this area, and in this way it is seen that the Trade Union Committees are more involved in what is going on. But then there's one premise, and it's also based on the experience of this period, that when we send over to the trade committee the matters that have been sent over, there's little involvement in the trade committee. That is where we take what the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has said and let it go further. Then there's nothing special about it, to put it straight out. But if we do that combination of transmission and the professional committees have the power and the will to go into it, then we are able to meet this combination between a control institute that has a pooling power and the authority of the expert committees in the various fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2805	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2821	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2830	Two years ago, a broad majority here in the Grand Duchy adopted the close police reform, a completely necessary and important reform. What we are discussing now is a proposal from the Workers' Party on general elements of the reform and information to the municipalities. I expect the various parties themselves to promote their minority proposals in the matter. These are two proposals from the rapporteurs. The right is of the opinion that these are unnecessary proposals. The proposal that the government implements Storting's intentions is a matter of course. It has our support, because the Right could vote in favour of this proposal regardless of and independent of the majority constellations. For us, it's the constitutional framework that's important, as we write in our notes. Someone's trying to put in this that there's a criticism of the government. There is no criticism whatsoever. The most eye-catching thing, in my opinion, is that the proposers invite the national assembly of the country to spend time on naturalities. The second proposal is an attempt at a new interpretation of an element of the near-police reform agreement. It is linked to the local process. The Labour Party thus creates confusion about their own position in this important reform. The process of change at the service location level has now been completed. In the light of the Ministry's reply to the case, we have therefore formulated a new proposal that is in line with the ministry's good work in informing municipalities about the content of the services. I am also somewhat surprised that the Labour Party criticised us in a previous case for a short period of time in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, while the same representatives are now promoting this proposal, which has an even shorter period of time. But let me end by thanking the committee chairman and the committee for a good cooperation over four years. We've been dealing with a lot of cases in the Justice Committee. We have disagreed, but at the same time we have cooperated well and laid the foundation for making the country safer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2843	Unfortunately, there is no self-fulfilment that the intentions of the police reform and the conciliation have been followed up. We know that well in the Justice Committee, and I'd like to say something about it. But I just have to comment on the case-speaker's comment that this proposal is coming to nothing. One cannot compare a proposal to increase the maximum penalty in Norway with a proposal to implement a settlement and a police reform in the Stortinget. Yes, it should have been a self-fulfilment that this was done. But then we get feedback: After I repeatedly asked the Minister of Justice if he had control of the promise we made to the citizens through the police reform, I got the answer – twice – that it was fully controlled. Then we see in the revelations in the VG, in the Police Forum, through feedback from many of the municipalities in the country, that they are not informed about this part of the deal. Yes, POD has even said that it was not supposed to get that information. We're not the ones that settlers are happy with. We do not accept that. Inclusion of a settlement is not free of charge. We thought, everyone behind the agreement, that a police reform was necessary. But for us it was very central that when the inhabitants got a promise that they would have local participation and ownership for the final result, it was done. That's the background to the fact that we're quite content to present this proposal, and I'm glad – unless it's changed since the last time I read the setting – that we're going to agree to it. Then the case spokesperson might call it 'obscurities'. I'd like him to be right, but that's not true. Reform is not easy to implement, and there will always be resistance. We know that in the Labour Party, which is behind a lot of the major reforms through history. What I think is that if one had done this job correctly, far more people in the country and in Norwegian municipalities would have been more positive about the reform. When my municipality lost its county office and doesn't know what they're getting back, how can you expect them to expect that, of course, it's going to be a better police service? I don't want them - to use a good Norwegian expression - so they don't know exactly what this service is like. I believe that if the government, POD and those responsible for getting this out of the country had done the job properly and delivered on a promise to the inhabitants, many more in Norwegian municipalities would have both thought and seen that the reform was good – and of course the whole point for us who are behind the agreement is that the service should be better. I take up the proposal from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2858	Then the representative, Mrs. Lene Vågslid, mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2863	Let me thank the case rapporteur and the committee for their good work in a short time. I want to draw a slightly longer line in the matter itself, because the police reform is perhaps the most important thing we've been working on in the committee in this period. It's been demanding for all of us, I think. History goes back to before July 22, but after July 22, in particular, what happened to both the Gjørv Commission and police analysis, was a basis that was followed up by the government, but not least by the Committee and the Stortinget in its time. The police have been in a difficult situation. One hears very often about everything that goes wrong, and therefore it's always important to remember all the episodes where things are going well, and where the police do an extremely important job both to expose crime and not least to solve crime and get caught up in those who have done something wrong. It is important to be able to prevent and have a safe society. When we dealt with the reform itself here in Stortinget, it was important for the Christian People's Party to ensure that the police are present where people live, and that we can equip the police in such a way that they can solve the task as best they can. Then it was important for the Christian People's Party to involve the municipalities, because we believe that the police, along with the municipalities, where you get a local anchor, will do a better job – both in terms of prevention and in terms of combating crime. Now we've seen that the service structure is locally laid, but it's not high in stone. This means that there will be adjustments in the future. When we dealt with the reform in Stortinget, we made a recipe for what the structure would be like. As I said, it was important for the municipalities to be involved in the best possible way. But we also said something about it being evaluated. In this context, the document which the draft representative also deals with is essential. If you want to evaluate the results in a good way, you also need to know what was the purpose and what you want to have as an alternative to an office. That is why I am also very pleased that we are removing the doubts that have been created, because it is right that the representative Wagslid says: there are many who have requested the document. Now we're clear that it's coming. According to the Minister of Justice, it will come this summer or before the summer. Then we are at least clear that the document will be in place. Finally, police reform is in a very critical phase. We are many who are impatient, and for my part I am surprised that one chose to lay down so many offices. But now we've given that authority. Police reform is at a critical stage, and it is therefore also important for the police to be able to implement it. The implementation, the very implementation of the reform, is extremely important, and if we are to succeed in the objectives and the intention of the Stortinge, it is also important to stop the work that is being done now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2884	The demands we have for response time today are that the time from the police gets a message about an emergency mission until the first patrol is in the city, will apply in 80 p.m. of cases. With this, we are in practice at risk of prioritizing the key strokes because it is where the response time is shorter. This goes beyond the districts, and one doesn't get good figures on how long it takes for the police to arrive at events that happen far away in the individual police districts. I thought it was good that there were requirements for response time. The police are largely complying with the demands today. Then we must be even more ambitious. The requirement must apply to 100 pst. Of the cases, so that we get good numbers of the time it takes before the police show up in the smaller central strata. We need to focus more on quality and on police services near people across the country. We urgently need to reach the goal of having two police officers per 1,000 inhabitants in all police districts, and the goal must be to achieve all urgent missions throughout Norway. Today, the centre party suggests that each bilgeman's office should have a quiet waitress. We don't get that in my own municipality of residence, Vestnes, where we have to have a joint borrower with the neighbouring municipality. In Hallingdal, they fight locally to keep the cannon offices. They finally got to keep three, but now it turns out that there should only be a loner in the entire Hallingdal. The other officers' offices will only be called janitors' offices. In practice, the other two will be reduced to police posts with a sign on the door, where the Länsmannskontoret is located. This did not know the local populace in Hallingdal anything about it until now, after all decisions have been taken. The central section believes that it is absolutely fundamental that a loner's office has its own loner. It should just be missing. Introducing something else and still calling it a loner's office would mislead people, and it would mislead local people and not least the Storting. Passports were not accepted as part of the police reform, but there has been a part of the centralisation that takes place in the police. Passport printing is an important part of the service offered by the county staff offices around the country, and the Central Party believes that the centralization that is now taking place must be stopped. I take this into account the suggestions of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2897	The representative Geir Inge Lien has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2902	Police reform is one of the most important things that we have adopted in this process of mass destruction. A broad majority has supported the reform. Both the Workers' Party, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have been on it. We've been because it's important. After we received both the Gjørv Commission's report and the police analysis, it was quite obvious that something had to be done, and that is precisely why such a large majority in the UK has taken responsibility for getting it done. The changes in the Norwegian police come as a result of wishes both from the police themselves and from political groups. However, changes and reforms are demanding and, in particular, structural changes can pave the way for an organisation. The process we have now been through, with new police districts and a change in the janitor's office structure, has not gone without pain, nor should it. It is important that local people are told their own words, and it is important that critical arguments are also made. But police reform is not just about structure. The most important thing about the reform is for it to work in a new way. We're going to get more out of the police service that exists, and people are going to experience that they have a good police service that's there when it's needed. One thing is the task of the Storting, which is to adopt the reform, another is the task of the government, which is to implement what the Storing has decided. It is also not an easy task, and we get from time to other feedback from the local police that Storting's intentions do not always reach the police. An example of this is that many municipalities have been informed that everything that can be complained about when a payroll office is closed is the formal nature of the process itself – although the agreement between the parties explicitly states that other factors that affect the overall impact of the local availability of the police can also be taken into account. We also receive feedback that the dialogue with the management of the various police districts varies. While some people experience that the police chief himself travels the country and the beach to talk to the local authorities, other elected representatives feel that those who have appeared from the police side have not been able to answer their questions and concerns. We can always get better. It applies in life in general, and it also applies in this area. It is the task of the Council of State to ensure that the police always improve and provide the police services we as citizens can expect. The left will vote in favour of the setting in the case. We believe it is perfectly obvious that the government must ensure that decisions taken in the Storting are followed up in accordance with the Storting's intention. We have no problem standing behind the decisions that lie in the matter. Finally, I would like to thank you for your cooperation. Although I'm not on the committee, I think I have a good cooperation with all the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2919	First, a clarification: a description of the service provision has been sent to all the municipalities in the 11 districts where changes have been made. The descriptions have been sent out at different times and in different formats. The final description of the service offer had to await the decision on the locational structure. The majority adopted a necessary but comprehensive and ambitious reform on 10 June 2015. In general, the reform can be divided into a structural part and a quality part. The structural component has now been defined and all capacity for change is now to be used to implement the qualitative part – the important part. It is the qualitative part that affects the police service the most and has the greatest impact on the population. Police contacts took place last week and, together with the further development of police councils, will significantly strengthen interaction with municipalities and other local actors. It is important that the document to the municipalities, also called ‘A promise to the inhabitants’, is a living document that is being developed and updated as the needs of society and the population change. Police need to be continuously developed to meet the changes in society. New working methods and tools are being developed, new knowledge becomes available and the police have to learn from mistakes. I believe it is important that the police are as specific as possible in the written information to the municipalities. On the other hand, police districts cannot wait until everything is finally resolved. The future passport offer is an example of a service for which it will not be possible to explain before the summer holiday. The National Police Leadership Group has met this week and work is in progress on completing the documents for the municipalities. The final description of the service offer had to await the decision on the locational structure. It was published on 24 May 2017, in other words just four weeks ago. The Directorate of Police has provided the police departments with a statement that final documents describing the provision of services to the municipalities should be completed and sent out before 1 July. I can assure the Storting that the government is doing everything in its power to ensure that the near-police reform is carried out according to Storting's intentions. So it is obvious – from my point of view – that this is not the case today. It's more about an Workers' Party that's trying to run away from its co-responsibility for the near-police reform. I'm not going to wonder why, but on the basis of that, the Storting is being forced today to take a decision that contains naturalities that would in any case have been implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2933	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2938	The centre party has a number of suggestions today. They include: an important proposal on the location of rentals at the lumbar carpentry offices. I want to stress that this is something that the Workers' Party is also busy with. But there are also conditions about this that we have not been able to properly verify at the current time. So far, we only have verbal engagements from meetings in different police districts, and we don't know all the facts about this case. But if it's actually true that you've been thinking about a structure with a loner's office without a loner present, I can only say that there's nothing the Labour Party has seen happen. Nor is there anything that has been done right in the proposition that was made before the Stortinget. So I just thought I'd give the Minister of Justice the opportunity to assure us that there's going to be lenghtmen in the county offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2943	Of course, we're going to make sure that there's police force at all of the county officials' offices. What time it happens at – when it is – we have to get back to, but we suggest that this should be done in a good way. So I don't think you should hang up too much in the title, but be more concerned with the police force you actually have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2948	The representative's proposal refers to this document that the municipalities would get to see what preparedness would be in the area if a county office disappeared. So the Council of State says that this could not be developed until the structure was in place. Then you have an approximation to the thing that says that first we make the structure, and then we see what we're going to fill that structure with. While for the Christian People's Party, this is the case, and I think I can speak for the Workers' Party, too, that when we negotiated reform, it was important that one should fill the content in cooperation with the municipalities, and then – when one looked at which readiness one needed, and what was governing – a look at structure, whether it had to be changed in order to ensure the readiness we wanted. Does the Council of State agree that when one has the approach – which I at least realized he had in his speech – does a completely different structural debate than if one defines the content of the document more broadly in cooperation with the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2957	The provision of services to the police in individual municipalities is important. It will also change over time in the sense that, as we put in place — and get — a qualitative boost for the police, services will also improve. That's why I think it's pretty hard to base a static approach to this issue. I would agree with that criticism if it had not been so informed at all, but it has thus been through various processes that the municipalities have been informed of the offer they can be expected to receive in the implementation of the reform. The final letter – which is also not final – will expire by 1 July. As we implement the qualitative force of the reform of the neighbourhood police, the provision of services will then increase, and then these letters to municipalities may become even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2962	In the post-debate, I have heard several times that the offices that are still allowed to print passports are the offices that can print at least 1000 passports per year. This is a requirement sent to police districts to submit proposals for a new centralisation structure within passports. I've also heard several times that this is to meet international requirements. I have now read ICAO’s international standard for passport printing. He doesn't say anything about it. The National Audit Office's report on passport printing in Norway also says nothing about it. Can the Council of State tell me who has defined the 1000 for passport printing as a minimum requirement? What is the background for this, and why has this particular number been seen?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2969	It is relatively uninteresting to explain it, for it is in any case a political decision on how the passport issue structure should look in the future. There's nothing the Police Directorate is going to decide. It is something that political leadership in the department had initially decided, but that, because of the decision taken by the Storting, has to go into the Storting. In the follow-up to the Storting decision earlier this year, it is considered that the Storting should be involved in the treatment of this structure. It will of course be followed up, because I follow the decision of Storting. But it's not like it's the Police Directorate that decides this. I also think you, in the balance of where you are going to issue passports, have to take on board that there is a reason why we are changing the issue of passports. It is about the fact that the safety of Norwegian passports has not maintained a qualitatively high level. We need to find the good balance between good district policy on the one hand and good security for the important document the Norwegian passport is actually, on the other hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2978	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e2983	Lack of central preparedness concerns, but local daily preparedness still seems to be a bit in the blind zone. The Djørv Commission said in clear terms: ‘Any event takes place in one or more municipalities. [[...]] The municipality is responsible for important local response resources and has a fundamental responsibility for ensuring the safety and security of the population.» This is done at the municipal emergency services, where all agencies, offices and volunteers — including the police — will meet regularly. The Stortinge adopted a police reform with local anchoring, including: with a document for all local authorities. But now the Right Party and the Advance Party are going to have to repeat the decision. The Council of State now says that the document comes – legally late – but is it wrong what the case says, that POD, through the Police Forum in May 2017, said they never intended to create such a document? It would have been okay if the council had responded to it. What's a shame is that there's a concern about the way the police reform is carried out. The video about and with the foot people in the South-East police district is glittering humor with a big dose of seriousness. Busherud people are good in 'Svelvik-English', so we recognize ourselves in the vocabulary of the title 'Close Police Reform', because it may mean 'near', but it may also mean 'end'. In the video 'Hell's Kitchen' a pot is not quite sure what it contains. Some of the ingredients we can do without in Buskerud. VG has revealed that Stortinget's leadership to let the co-located emergency call centre in the Drammen model for the rest of the country is given little weight, so it is decommissioned. I ask the Minister of Justice, what kind of resource use is that? What kind of local preparedness is that? Eight rapporteurs – six of whom are from the Right – warn against weakened social security and preparedness. Tomorrow, it's a meeting at Hønefoss. The sentence may be imposed and the alert may be impaired if the arrestees are to be driven to Drammen. There is a lot of good will in the police at Hönefoss to succeed in the police reform, but trust leaders say that the processes lack anchoring. It's too fast. The consequences only appear when things are done. Ringriche's not the only one. The rapporteurs in our part of the South-East police district were recently gathered in Kongsberg. They were told that the cannon offices in Lier, Lower Eiker, Obere Eiker, Kongsberg, Nore and Uvdal will lose the cannon and will be controlled from Drammen. In Modum they lack the passport function, but keep the Länsmannskontoret, which fights with Sigdal and Krødsherad, but there should not be a loner there. They're to be controlled from Honey Fooss. In Hallingdal, one police contact shall cover six emergency services. The rapporteurs in Nes and Få protest and say, "We stick to the gentleman." So it's high enough time to get the local anchoring in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e3003	The representative, Mr. Werp, and the state council themselves say that it is obvious that one implements what is agreed. I agree that it should of course be, but it is unfortunately documented that it does not have our case. I would say that it is very regrettable that the police reform was not carried out in line with what was stated in the agreement on police reform, as was also documented by the Labour Party, both in the proposal for a representative and in the position on this matter. What is still positive is that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party in the vote are behind the motion for a decision of the Labour Party that implementation must be in line with the Stortinge's intentions. There are several aspects of implementation to which there is every reason to be critical. The Right Party and the Progress Party have spent very short time implementing them, with missing anchoring as possible. They have reaped efficiency gains and said no to the proposals for more money in the Workers' Party's alternative budget, and they have seen structure higher than content and quality. The proposal we are discussing today concerns in particular one aspect, namely the document 'A promise to the inhabitants', which was requested by the majority in the context of the conciliation. It is very regrettable that it has not been presented to the local government, as it has also been documented, for example. by the municipality of Etne. Correspondence has been attached to the setting. The explanation from the Right and the Advance Party cracks, from the fact that they were not supposed to have it in advance, that the information is actually made available, just not in the form of a final document that can be verified, that this document is actually coming later. What this shows is that for the Right and the Progress Party, structural decisions were more important than content, and progress was more important than quality. In many ways, this matter is a symptom of a problem that has been repeated under this government: what can have our good intentions for police and preparedness has been of a lack of ability at home to carry out – together with a number of other major bets that still stand again, such as money for the construction of an emergency centre, money for the purchase of police helicopters, the boating capacity of the emergency team, not forgetting the security and preparedness element in the Prime Minister's office, which proved to be an equally terrible idea in practice that critics had warned against, and that has not been implemented – this time I will say ‘unfortunately’ – and one more, instead, with a slightly larger secretariat for RSU, the Government's security selection. I am concerned about whether the Right Party and the Progress Party continue in the same path as they have started when it comes to police reform, that is, that what can and should be a major and important reform, as the Labour Party wants, and has been pushing forward, ends up being weak and badly implemented because the necessary pressure behind it is missing. Finally, I have registered the many suggestions from the Center Party. Many of them are good, but they are too detailed to allow the Labour Party to vote for them at the present time. However, I am sure that we will be able to cooperate well with the Center Party on this at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e3022	The council of states sighed heavily when I passed by, but he must probably find himself listening a little more before we end the downtime. The fact that the Workers' Party has made it necessary to make such a proposal says something about how the Right Party and the Advance Party deal with the lots with which they are making a settlement, and it also says something about how the government chooses to follow up this reform. There is something very symbolic, really, about us ending this great period with a debate and a vote on police reform, where one confirms the centralisation that this reform involves. For centralisation in the knowledge and broadness has been the government's project for a total of four years. It started with the municipalities, and so today we're going to end by confirming the police center that these government parties have stood for. I also see in the statement that the majority is constantly calling it a close police reform, despite the fact that police officers are snooping about the term, and despite the fact that the leader of diffi has recommended that one should stop using that term because no one is still fooled by that term. The centre party has made some proposals on the occasion of the case. We don't get a majority for them. We had not expected that, either – not with the centralizing attitude of these parties towards the police and the development of the police. But we seriously believe that if one sets a target and a demand for response time, it should include the entire population of Norway, not parts of the population. We also believe that the Council of State today confirms that he cannot promise local management at the offices of the county councils that are left. Here he has put down more than 120 loner offices, and then he can't promise local management on those who are left. We seriously believe that the goal, which the government also says they are behind, namely two policemen per thousand inhabitants, should apply to all the police districts. We think it's necessary if you're going to go on with it. Today, only Oslo and Finnmark are fulfilling this. I would also like to mention that VG has achieved in a deserving way the insidiousness and reluctance of the Police Directorate, among others. in the case of emergency centres. The central party is of the opinion that the police directorate should be slimned, and we also believe that the seven – seven! – Today’s day-old centres in Oslo should be co-located and streamlined. There might be some money to save for the government. But not even that they will agree to review today. Now, we're done with the accumulation period. In three months, it's a choice. Then the voters can also say about the centralisation that this reform involves – this far-reaching policy reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e3045	A good thing can't be said too often. The debate we have now is a debate that has also taken place in the past, and I am concerned that the Council of State has been very clear that his job is to carry out what the Stortinget has said. The debate is also recognisable in a different perspective. I got into the Stortinget in 2001 when the previous police reform was to be implemented and implemented. Let me put it this way: the current Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum had at least the same pressure against him as he went down from 54 to 27 police districts as he experienced today. So that this is a new situation, is with respect to reporting direct errors. Norwegian police are not static. Norwegian society is not static. There are constant changes, and if we are not willing to do the grips that need to be done to optimise what we want to achieve, then the Storting fails its function, and it would have been direct search and stupid. We are now discussing whether or not this is natural. I still believe that a good thing can be said more than once. In addition, we can discuss functionality and lenders. I don't think the audience – the taxpayers – is concerned about who comes when they need help, but that they actually get the help they want. It's the most important thing. And when you set a response time and a response to the phone, you do something about the Norwegian police that Norwegian police have been exempted from until the reform was adopted, as opposed to other blue-lighting acts. Of course, we can go around this last day and be dissatisfied with each other. Or we could say that no, we have an ambition to make the Norwegian police better able to serve the audience – the taxpayers. I see that as the ambition of the majority of the Judicial Committee, which made a compromise on the reform. I also feel that the Left thinks in the same direction, not least because they have been involved and taken responsibility for the budgets on which this has been implemented. But it's also a fact that no reform is easy to roll out. You can't expect the audience to stand out and cheer on what's going on. Because you've learned that when society is put together in a way, it's easier to relate to it. Every change does something to us. Being willing to change can be demanding, but also necessary. I perceive again today that what you are doing now is giving a clear message to the Council of State. The Council of State has been very clear on what the government is going to do, and that is, at my discretion, a matter of course. Let me finally – since this is my last post from this pulpit – be allowed to thank the Stortinget for 16 amazing years and at the same time express great joy at the efforts of all the employees of the Stortinget every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e3060	One important basis for the police reform was that we should go from a situation where we had different police services in different places in the country – where there were differences between police districts, and where the special agencies and the large police districts were given more resources in terms of money and jobs, than the smaller ones, i.e. a situation of differential police – to have one police throughout the country. This is the document that is at the heart of the matter in many ways. The Minister of Justice has written to Stortinget that the letter is coming, and the background is that if a local office wants more police services, it is at the expense of someone else's access to police services elsewhere. The core of the police reform is that you need to know what services you get and not have the condition that was during, among other things. The central party was in government, where police services were different. It was a centralization. It was probably unintentional, but it was definitely a centralization of the police services, which we want to get away from, and move them closer to the inhabitants. The representative of Christoffersen comes with what I would call a declaration of love to municipal preparedness. We have been rapporteurs, both of us – Christoffersen and I – and I agree with that declaration of love. As I said, the core of this reform is to strengthen cooperation between the police and the local authorities in order to improve the security of all municipalities – not just in a few. So to pass, which was also on, from the Central Party: it's not part of the near-police reform. I do not understand, on the basis of the reports from the Central Party on passport issuance, why the Central Party did not vote in favour of that proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left that were adopted, which says that this is a matter to be dealt with and decided upon in this Chamber. Instead, the Senter party – as far as I remember – voted on what I would say is a bad proposal, where passport issue is to be determined by the stopwatch, 45 minutes. It provides randomness and unforeseeability in this important field. I am very pleased that the Storting ends this period with a debate on the reform of the police. That's appropriate. The emergency theme was important at the end of the previous period. Now let's take that up. We have taken many steps forward, not least thanks to this reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e3071	When I take the word now, it's mostly for ceremonial reasons. This is the last debate in the four-year period, and I would like to thank the Justice Committee for a good cooperation over the last four years, and not least the Council of State over the last year. All representatives, with different party seats, have gone into these debates and are addressing matters with the best intentions for the country and with emphasis on people's legal certainty and on security and preparedness. We haven't been a few in absolutely every case, but together we've managed to make important changes that matter to people. Among other things, this committee has been involved in the liquidation of the jury system, has decided that the Blasphemi paragraph should be lifted, and has removed the limitation period for annihilation fires, to mention something. In particular, I would also like to thank him who has now had his last debate here in the main hall – because he does not take any action – and that is the representative of Jan Arild Ellingsen. He is also the representative with the highest seniority and most experience in the field of emergency in this room, with three periods in the Justice Committee and also a period in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. It is an experience that is also reflected in the quality of the questions he asks, the posts he manages, and the way he represents this field. We may meet the representative Ellingen in other contexts at a later date. In any case, I am absolutely sure that I am speaking on behalf of the entire Justice Committee when I thank him for his efforts in the service of democracy for 16 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e3082	Now I'm going to do something very unusual, and it's to state that I'm going to join the representative Tajik's posts. I also thank you for your cooperation with the Committee, and not least for the fact that, although there are political dragonfights, there is always a good tone and a glimpse in the eye. Then I can't avoid talking about politics, because I think it's quite natural that I do, especially when the Center Party makes some claims that appear to be relatively unreasonable. So it's not like the representative Lien is trying to represent it, that the response time is not good enough. We have a situation where the measurements that are made show that the police are delivering on the response time, in fact a little above what was expected. This is something that will continue to be tightened up, we will expect better results as the quality reform, as the police reform is, becomes visible through results. But it's very interesting that the Center Party, of all people, should ask for this, because it was only during this government that it was at all interesting to measure the police response time. Of course, it's good that the Center Party is concerned about it, but they weren't at all in the eight years they were in government. And it's also true that we run against two policemen per thousand inhabitants, that's an explicit goal for this government, and it seems that we're going to achieve that goal earlier than we thought – in 2019 instead of 2020. We are showing this through the targeted increase in the number of annual police work, which so far is close to 1,800 new annual works in the police and civil service. So here we're definitely on track, and it's delivered. Then there is something that I think is a little strange – it also applies to the Center Party, and the Workers' Party and the representative Christoffersen, which refers to what the VG so-called has revealed. So all the co-located centres that are being expanded do so according to the government budget adopted, according to the leadership that has been communicated to the Storting, and further planning is ongoing, so it can't come as any kind of surprise either. Then it's strange that you try to pull out the emergency card in this debate as well. If there is a government that has delivered on standby, it is precisely this government that has put the country in a position where we have a preparedness that is better than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e3095	It has to be a little bit of a policy before we're done. I have to say I was a little surprised by the last statement from the Council of State that this government is delivering more on standby than anyone else. It is probably no more than one day since the State Council almost got completely flat in Stortinget because of the way the police have handled property protection in Norway in recent years. It's true that the representative Ellingen was inside. I guess some word is free-posting from the Right – I think they've gone from all the representatives around. They tend to open up that the police haven't changed in 50 years. In reality, the police have been through three 20-year reforms. It is true, as the representative Ellingsen says, that there was a reform under the previous bourgeois government in 2001–2005, which also meant a strong centralisation of the police. What is bad about the reforms, and the Central Party also warned against that time, is that each of the reforms has only ended in a new centralisation, but not necessarily a more operational police force. It is a shame that we always end up discussing structure instead of discussing content and quality, and that has also happened in this case. It is a lesson to learn from saying that we must all learn to live with the reforms. No, we can't. A lot more of us should be questioning the reforms. The representative, Mr. Werp, confirms that anyone may have to take from the small districts and give to the large ones. But what's so strange is that the Right Party and the Advance Party are not willing to look at the Police Directorate. It's not long since the Progress Party wanted to put the Police Directorate down. Now they're not going to look at it – it's been growing, and the operating costs have doubled in the last four years – nor in the operation centres in Oslo. I think the police are doing the best they can with regard to the response requirement, but the Central Party believes that the response requirement should cover the entire Norwegian population. Then I'd like to say good summer to everyone. We all need to gather forces for an interesting campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e3108	I'll be very short. I brought with me a letter, the letter I mentioned in my first post, from eight rapporteurs in the lower part of Buskerud. It was sent to the Minister of Justice on 1 June 2017. I do not know if the Minister of Justice has answered that yet, but by reference to my statement, the Minister of Justice said it was wrong to say that the VG had revealed it, and that it should not come as a big surprise. It was not that the co-location in Drammen was closed, which was the big surprise – that was the way it happened. I allow myself to refer to some lines initially in the letter sent by the eight rapporteurs, and there is the title: ‘A serious setback for social security and security in general and the police district in particular’ In addition, it says: ‘The Joint Emergency Centre in the Dramens region, SAMLOK, is hereby closed for the first six months of 2018. The alternative that the Police Directorate will have implemented represents a serious setback for preparedness and social security. This is happening despite the general rise in the threat of terrorism and despite the assurances of government and the Storting to improve the security of the nation's citizens. As rapporteurs in a population-intensive region, we can hardly accept this and record it passively.' So readiness belongs absolutely to that matter. As I said, I do not know if the Council of State has answered the letter yet, but I can greet the rapporteur in Drammen and based on the Minister of Justice's comments today say that this should not come as a surprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e3125	As regards the main seat and the choice of the police centre, this was done in December 2015. I understand that it may be opportunistic to try to make a point of it to greet home from this great-room, but it was done by delegation to the Police Directorate, adopted by this Bigton. It's a follow-up to a big decision, and there's nothing that has come about after that decision, which implies anything else than that it's been a proper process. Trying to get this case up now, I perceive an attempt at rematch. Of course, it might be interesting to do that when you come from an affected constituency yourself, but especially constructively, it's not. You don't have the foundation either. Based on a series of articles from the largest paper paper newspaper in this country, you have to do it, but you have no basis for it. Here, like all the other matters we have discussed today, one has fully respected the will of Storting, the intent of Storting. And when you delegate such decisions, you also have to accept the decisions that are made if they are made in a proper and proper way. It's been done in this case. It may well be out of the question, and it may well be that you see opportunities to hijack some extra voters by acting this way, but I actually expect that the Workers' Party, with its history, is able to fulfill its role by acting seriously and dealing with the Storting's own decisions and not trying to initiate populist discussions around decisions that were made a year and a half ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e3132	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e3163	The Committee had set up: The members and alternate members of the Preparatory Powers Committee shall be chosen:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e3304	A total of 115 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1-10, from Marianne Marthinsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 12–15, from Marianne Marthinen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 16–36, from Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 37-101, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 102, from Marianne Marthinsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 103, from Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 104, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No 105, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 106, from Jonas Gahr Støre on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 107, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 108, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 109, from Lisbeth Berg-Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 110, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 112-114, by Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA the proposals No 115-116, by Gunnar Gundersen There is a vote on proposal No. 116, from Gunnar Gundersen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to redispatch funds allocated to wolves’ measures on the Cape. 1420 in RNB, so it's going to be set at 10 million in total. project crowns.’» The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e3371	There is a vote on proposal No. 115, from Gunnar Gundersen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the follow-up of Roman Numeral Decision VI on an independent investigation into the genetic origin of the wolf stock in Norway in the Innst. [[2015-2016]] 330 S by initiating a research project in which responsibility for implementation is assigned to the Research Council.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e3388	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 112-114, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 112 sounds: ‘In the last 14 years, the Riksrevision is requesting the control of the Norwegian authorities over the exceedances on Norwegian pedestals, amounting to SEK 200 billion. The direct involvement of the State in the exceedances by Statoil and Petoro shall also be examined. In particular, the current oil expansions Asta Hansteen, Goliath, Yme and Martin Linge, where there are so far more than $30 billion in exceedances in total, should be examined. The 6 deaths and 22 injuries caused during the construction of the Martin Linge oil platform in South Korea shall also be examined with regard to the requirements and supervision of the Norwegian authorities in order to avoid such tragic events.» Proposal No. 113 sounds like: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether Statoil’s ongoing advertising campaigns are misleading since it does not disclose the extent of Statoil’s plans to invest in increased fossil production and the amount of greenhouse gas emissions caused by Statoil’s products and whether this is affected by the Marketing Act as a misleading omission in which the trader’s marketing omits or hides material information.’ [[such as http://journalreraderunge.no/ and ‘What the future looks like’]] Proposal No. 114 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Statoil does not influence the Norwegian decision-making process with advertising campaigns and impact work.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e3417	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 37, 38, 46, 49-51, 54, 67, 69, 70, 73, 80, 81, 92, 100 and 101, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The 2017 budget shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 21 Government Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 770000 from NOK 169 500000 to NOK 177 200000 61 Supreme Court Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 75 000 from NOK 108 462 000 to NOK 108 387 000 117 The EEA Financial Mechanisms 75 The EEA Financial Mechanism 2009–2014, may be transferred, increased by: 103,000,000 from NOK 446000000 to NOK 549000000 76 The Norwegian Financial Mechanism 2009–2014 may be transferred, increased by: 353,000,000 from NOK 408000000 to NOK 761000000 77 The EEA Financial Mechanism 2014-2021, may be transferred, increased by: 79,000,000 from NOK 185000000 to NOK 264000000 78 The Norwegian Financial Mechanism 2014-2021, may be transferred, increased by: 53,000,000 from NOK 185000000 to NOK 238000000 118 North-area actions, etc. 70 North-area actions and project cooperation with Russia, may be transferred, can be used under item 1, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 307 641000 to NOK 312 641000 152 Assistance to the Middle East and North Africa 78 Regional allocation for the Middle East and North Africa, may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 556000000 to NOK 566000000 163 Emergency aid, humanitarian aid and human rights 70 Emergency aid and humanitarian aid, may be transferred, increased by: 273,847,000 from NOK 4 436 124 000 to NOK 4 709 971 000 72 Human rights, transferable, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 298 300000 to NOK 308 300000 165 Research, empowerment and evaluation 70 Research, may be transferred, increased by: 12,000,000 from NOK 156000000 to NOK 168000000 167 Refugee measures in Norway, approved as development aid [[ODA]] Special operating costs are reduced by: 257 450,000 from NOK 2949 375000 to NOK 2691 925000 169 Global health and education 70 Global health, may be transmitted, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 3065000000 to NOK 3075000000 170 United Nations organisations, etc. 71 UN Population Fund [[UNFPA]] 22,000,000 from NOK 401000000 to NOK 423000000 76 United Nations and global challenges, can be transmitted, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 233 300000 to NOK 238 300000 172 Debt-related measures 70 Debt relief, balance of payments support and capacity building, may be transferred, increased by: 41,000,000 from NOK 270000000 to NOK 311000000 200 Ministry of Knowledge Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 600 000 from NOK 347 426 000 to NOK 348 026 000 220 Directorate of Education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 350000 from NOK 301,405000 to NOK 301,055000 70 Grants to educational material, etc., may be transferred, may be used under heading 21, increased by: 650000 from NOK 58 685000 to NOK 65 185000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. State upper secondary schools and post-secondary non-tertiary schools Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 300000 from NOK 100 539 000 to NOK 100 839 000 224 Centres for ICT in education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 350000 from NOK 68 634 000 to NOK 68 984 000 225 Basic training measures 64 Aid for the training of children and young people seeking residence in Norway is reduced by: 132 119 000 from NOK 384 162000 to NOK 252 043 000 67 Grants for training in Finnish are increased by: 2,200,000 from NOK 7 165 000 to NOK 9 365 000 73 Grants to study stays abroad are reduced by: 3,600,000 from NOK 17 749 000 to NOK 14 149 000 226 Quality development of initial training 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, reduced by: 12 860,000 from NOK 935 787 000 to NOK 922 927 000 70 Grants to NAROM are increased by: 6,621,000 from NOK 8 379 000 to NOK 15000000 227 Grants to special schools 70 Grants to the French school in Oslo are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 10 442 000 to NOK 15 442 000 228 Grants to independent schools, etc. 71 Secondary free time schools, estimates, are reduced by: 9000000 from NOK 1602,854000 to NOK 1593,854000 83 Grants to in-house and in-house fresh schools providing education to adult students without secondary education are awarded by: [[NY]] 18,000,000 230 State Special Educational Support System Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 705 085 000 to NOK 700 085 000 231 Kindergartens 21 Special operating costs, may be carried over, may be used under item 51, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 440 190 000 to NOK 430 190 000 50 Grants to Sami nursery services are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 16 565 000 to NOK 21 565 000 60 Grants to multiple kindergarten teachers are reduced by: 172 200000 from NOK 172 200000 to NOK 0 70 Grants for swimming in kindergartens, pilot project non-governmental organisations, are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 35 290000 to NOK 40 290000 255 Contribution to Peace and Human Rights Centres 73 Nansen Fredssenter, increased by 1000000 from NOK 6 209 000 to NOK 7 209 000 256 Competence Norway Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 900000 from NOK 61 480 000 to NOK 62 380 000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 300000 from NOK 11 510000 to NOK 11 810000 257 Competence plus 70 Grants, may be transferred, increased by: 17,000,000 from NOK 162,237 000 to NOK 179,237 000 260 Universities and higher education institutions 50 Government universities and higher education institutions are reduced by: 67 622,000 from NOK 33 072 705000 to NOK 33 005 083 000 70 Private higher education institutions are increased by: 5968 000 from NOK 1357 637 000 to NOK 1 363 605 000 270 International mobility and social purposes for students 74 Subsidies for welfare work are increased by: 6000000 from NOK 84 756 000 to NOK 90 756 000 280 Common Units Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 750,000 from NOK 129 558 000 to NOK 130 308 000 50 Centres for Internationalisation of Education are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 83 125 000 to NOK 93 125 000 281 Joint actions for universities and higher education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under heading 70, increased by: 62 670,000 from NOK 248 870000 to NOK 311 540000 45 Major equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 13 421,000 to NOK 11 421000 50 Grants to the Norwegian Research Council are increased by: 36 400000 from NOK 191 436 000 to NOK 227 836 000 70 Other transfers, may be used under item 1, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 58 226 000 to NOK 60 226 000 283 Meteorology purposes 72 International cooperation projects are reduced by: 11 040000 from NOK 154 119 000 to NOK 143 079 000 288 International cooperation actions 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 340,000 from NOK 43,892,000 to NOK 44,232 000 72 International basic research organisations are increased by: 321,000 from NOK 321,841,000 to NOK 322,162 000 73 The EU Framework Programme for Research may be transferred, reduced by: 338 313,000 from NOK 2 194 592 000 to NOK 1 856 279 000 75 UNESCO quota reduced by: 1,300,000 from NOK 23 933 000 to NOK 22 633 000 315 Voluntary objectives 82 VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities is increased by: 10000000 from NOK 175 920000 to NOK 185 920000 86 Grants to international cycling in Norway are increased by: 750000 from NOK 13 590 000 to NOK 21 090 000 320 Norwegian Cultural Council 55 Norwegian Cultural Fund, increased by 4,000,000 from NOK 893 956 000 to NOK 897 956 000 321 Artist's Economy 75 Remuneration schemes are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 190 347 000 to NOK 186 347 000 322 Building and public spaces 70 National cultural buildings, may be transferred, increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 178 500000 to NOK 228 500000 323 Music and performing arts Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3 192,000 from NOK 89 623 000 to NOK 92 815 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, reduced by: 2,700,000 from NOK 60 947 000 to NOK 58 247 000 325 General cultural purposes Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2,492,000 from NOK 116,715000 to NOK 114,223000 21 Research, investigation and special operating expenditure may be carried over, increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 13 407 000 to NOK 17 407 000 79 At the disposal, may be used under item 1, reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 690000 to NOK 490000 328 Museum and visual art 70 The national museum network shall be increased by: 2000000 from NOK 1476 690000 to NOK 1478 690000 78 A number of firm measures are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 79 120000 to NOK 82 120000 334 Film and media applications 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 11 524 000 to NOK 8 524 000 340 The Norwegian Church 73 Grants to the Norwegian Church – settlement of holiday pay, etc., are increased by: 21 750 000 from NOK 125000000 to NOK 146 750 000 400 Ministry of Justice and Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 127 000 from NOK 494 247 000 to NOK 494 374 000 23 Special operational expenditure, research and knowledge development, may be carried over, reduced by: 131 000 from NOK 31 31 000 to NOK 31 179 000 410 Courts of Justice Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 23,053,000 from NOK 2 334 225 000 to NOK 2 357 278 000 411 Court of Justice Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 410 entry 1 is reduced by: 219 000 from NOK 84 425000 to NOK 84 206 000 430 Crime prevention services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2 713,000 from NOK 4 601 471000 to NOK 4 598 758000 432 Education centre of criminal services [[CRUS]] Operating costs are increased by: 19 600 000 from NOK 189 372 000 to NOK 208 972 000 440 Police Directorate - the Police and Len’s Seat Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 355 584 000 from NOK 16 710 504 000 to NOK 17 066 088 000 442 Police College Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 39 800000 from NOK 585 294000 to NOK 625 094000 444 Police security service [[PST]] Operating costs are increased by: 21,000,000 from NOK 890 524 000 to NOK 911 524 000 445 Higher Public Prosecutor's Office Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 265000 from NOK 244 538 000 to NOK 244 803 000 448 Commissioner for Borders Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 300000 from NOK 5 165 000 to NOK 5 465000 451 Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 4,200,000 from NOK 746 332 000 to NOK 750 532 000 452 Central crisis management Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 950,000 from NOK 26 651 000 to NOK 25 701 000 454 Rescue helicopter service 45 Major equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 301 851,000 from NOK 2 140 161000 to NOK 1 838 310000 455 Rescue services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 104,778 000 to NOK 103,778 000 456 Emergency Communications Directorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 7,248,000 from NOK 211 578 000 to NOK 218 826 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Special operating expenditure - services and products, increased by: 10,029,000 from NOK 63 653 000 to NOK 73 682 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 159 737 000 from NOK 359 109 000 to NOK 518 846 000 467 Norwegian Lovtidend Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 507,000 from NOK 421,000 to NOK 4 728,000 469 Vertegration scheme Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 17 732,000 from NOK 195 963 000 to NOK 213 695 000 472 Victim compensation and counselling services for crime victims Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 123 000 from NOK 24 510000 to NOK 24387000 70 Compensation for victims of violence, allocation of an estimate, shall be increased by: 52,000,000 from NOK 365 503 000 to NOK 417 503 000 474 Conflict Board Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 509,000 from NOK 117,016,000 to NOK 117,525000 490 Directorate for Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 13 450 000 from NOK 1 187 762 000 to NOK 1 201 212 000 21 Special operating expenditure, asylum receipts, shall be reduced by: 335 385 000 from NOK 2200 405000 to NOK 1 865 020 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Special operating costs, interpretation and translation, are reduced by: 38 200000 from NOK 62 006000 to NOK 23 806 000 60 Grants to host municipalities for asylum recipients are increased by: 1 778 000 from NOK 230 469 000 to NOK 232 247 000 70 Social benefits for residents in reception of asylum are increased by: 17 210 000 from NOK 308 350000 to NOK 325 560000 71 Grants to activities for children in reception of asylum are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 31 046 000 to NOK 33 046 000 72 Return of asylum seekers with a refusal and return for refugees, allocation of an estimate, shall be increased by: 10000000 from NOK 101 117 000 to NOK 111 117 000 73 Protection for refugees outside Norway, etc., support measures, can be used under Chapter. 496 entry 60, is increased by 9 900 000 from NOK 20 997 000 to NOK 30 897 000 75 Travel costs for refugees to and from abroad may be carried over by: 2,591 000 from NOK 15 623 000 to NOK 18 214 000 491 Foreigner’s Office Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 21, reduced by: 352,000 from NOK 320 187 000 to NOK 319 835000 495 Directorate for Integration and Diversity Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 13 900 000 from NOK 262,727,000 to NOK 276,627,000 496 Residence of refugees and measures for immigrants 21 Special operating costs, knowledge development, may be transferred, reduced by: 750,000 from NOK 43 704 000 to NOK 42 954000 60 Integration grants, may be transferred, increased by: 112 618 000 from NOK 12 134 571 000 to NOK 12 247 189 000 61 Specific grant for the settlement of lone minor refugees, the allocation of estimates, shall be reduced by: 390 099 000 from NOK 3 768 338 000 to NOK 3 378 239 000 62 Local migration measures are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 179 906000 to NOK 189 906000 73 Grants reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 15 035 000 to NOK 5 035 000 497 Norwegian and community education for adult immigrants This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Samples in Norwegian and community knowledge for adult immigrants are increased by: 750,000 from NOK 29 195 000 to NOK 29 945000 60 Grants for training in Norwegian and social skills for adult immigrants are reduced by: 77 770,000 from NOK 2 303 003 000 to NOK 2 225 233 000 500 Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2,200,000 from NOK 396 327,000 to NOK 394 127 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, reduced by: 2,380,000 from NOK 88 443 000 to NOK 86 063 000 25 Pre-project new government quarter, may be transferred, granted by: [[NY]] 4,000,000 510 Ministry Security and Service Organisation Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 39 820,000 from NOK 703 333 000 to NOK 663 513 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Joint expenditure of the Departments and the Office of the Prime Minister shall be reduced by: 10,449 000 from NOK 136,894000 to NOK 126,445000 520 Grants to political parties Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 500000 from NOK 8,730000 to NOK 8,230000 525 The County Departments Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 18,080,000 from NOK 1 838 069 000 to NOK 1 819 989 000 530 Construction projects outside the housing arrangement 33 The continuation of construction projects may be transferred, reduced by: 300000 000 from NOK 245000000 to NOK 2 155000000 36 Artistic decoration, may be transferred, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 19000000 to NOK 9000000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 77000000 to NOK 81000000 540 Directorate for Management and ICT Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 700 000 from NOK 266,711000 to NOK 268,411000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 27 310000 to NOK 26 310000 541 ICT policy 70 Subsidies for administrative development and coordination of ICT policies can be used under the heading. 541 entry 22 is increased by: 180 000 from NOK 6328 000 to NOK 6508000 545 The Data Protection Authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 140 000 from NOK 50 639 000 to NOK 50 779 000 552 National cooperation for regional development 62 National measures for local community development, funded by: [[NY]] 4500000 553 Convertible regions 65 Conversion programmes in the event of acute changes in the labour market may be used under the heading of Chapter 1. 553 entries 60 and 63 are increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 130000000 to NOK 145000000 560 Composite 50 The combination is increased by: 2,550 000 from NOK 301,617 000 to NOK 304,167 000 563 International reindeer management centre Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 380 000 from NOK 5 929 000 to NOK 6 309 000 567 National minorities 25 Measures to be taken by the romani/tatians, may be carried over, granted by: [[NY]] 2000000 60 Space measures, may be transmitted, reduced by: 220000 from NOK 6 371,000 to NOK 4 121 000 71 Grants to the Romani people’s cultural fund(s) shall be reduced by: 5,374 000 from NOK 5 374 000 to NOK 0 74 The cultural and resource centres of Norwegian spaces are reduced by: 10,500,000 from NOK 12000000 to NOK 1500000 75 Temporary grant scheme to the Roma people/tatians, may be transferred, granted by: [[NY]] 3 374 000 571 Framework grants to municipalities 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, reduced by: 6000000 from NOK 21 556 000 to NOK 15 556 000 60 Intrinsic subsidies are increased by: 549 864 000 from NOK 121 544 312 000 to NOK 122 094 176 000 64 Discretionary participation, can be used under a hood. 572 entry 64 is increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 1 606 000 to NOK 1 656 000 572 Framework grant to county municipalities 60 Intrinsic subsidies are increased by: 55,000,000 from NOK 32 150 448 000 to NOK 32 205 448 000 573 Municipal reform 60 Disadvantages and reform aid in the case of community mergers, estimates, are reduced by: 119 625,000 from NOK 1058 325000 to NOK 938 700000 61 Distinguishing costs of aggregation, allocation of estimates, shall be reduced by: 210 000 000 from NOK 240000000 to NOK 30000000 580 Dwelling aid 70 Housing aid, estimates, is reduced by: 20 800000 from NOK 2875 300000 to NOK 2 854 500000 585 Lease vis-à-vis the Committee Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 230 000 from NOK 28 345000 to NOK 28 575000 587 Directorate for Building Quality Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 220 000 from NOK 99 985000 to NOK 100 205000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Knowledge development and information dissemination are increased by: 350000 from NOK 44 430000 to NOK 47 930000 590 Planning and urban development 72 Subsidies for housing, urban and territorial development may be transferred, increased by: 6000000 from NOK 34 171000 to NOK 40 171000 595 State Charts, object lighting and national geographical infrastructure 21 Special operating costs, may be carried over, may be used under Chapter. 595 items 1 and 45 are increased by: 55 263 000 from NOK 311 597 000 to NOK 366 860000 601 Exploration, research and related activities 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 370,000 from NOK 57 395 000 to NOK 57 025 000 70 Grants increased by: 370,000 from NOK 36 120000 to NOK 36 490000 605 The seat of employment and welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 117 700 000 from NOK 11 435 967 000 to NOK 11 553 667 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Research and investigation activities are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 48 704 000 to NOK 46 704 000 611 Pensions of state funds Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 2,200,000 from NOK 20 200000 to NOK 18000000 612 Grants to State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 115 832,000 from NOK 5 418 168 000 to NOK 5 534 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Final statement, allocation of estimates, shall be reduced by: 33,000,000 from NOK 6000000 to NOK -27000000 70 For other members of the State pension fund, the estimate is increased by: 2000000 from NOK 134000000 to NOK 136000000 613 Employer’s fee for social security Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 268 200000 from NOK 289 200000 to NOK 21000000 614 Housing loan scheme of the State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 34000000 to NOK 30000000 90 Loans, estimates, are reduced by: 1 100,000,000 from NOK 45000000 to NOK 340000000000 615 Insurance against professional injury Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 11,000,000 from NOK 96000000 to NOK 85000000 616 Group life insurance services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 194000000 to NOK 192000000 634 Labour market measures 76 Measures for job seekers, may be transferred, reduced by: 141 024 000 from NOK 7 720 609 000 to NOK 7 579 585 000 635 Wages and salaries Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 30000000 to NOK 33000000 642 Petroleum control Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, may be used under item 21, increased by: 900000 from NOK 260 369 000 to NOK 261 269 000 646 Pioneer Divers in the North Sea 71 Surrender, may be carried over, granted by: [[NY]] 700000 648 Labour law, Riksmökleren etc. 70 Contributions to professional development shall be reduced by: 900000 from NOK 4000000 to NOK 310000 660 War Pension 70 Grants, military, allocation of estimates shall be reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 86000000 to NOK 84000000 71 Grants, civilians, estimates, are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 215000000 to NOK 210000000 664 Seafarer pension scheme 70 Grants reduced by: 28,000,000 from NOK 83000000 to NOK 55000000 666 Retirement contract [[AFP]] Grants, estimates, are reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 1930000000 to NOK 1910000000 667 Supplementary social benefits for persons over 67 years of age 70 Grants, estimates, are increased by: 680000 from NOK 325000000 to NOK 331 800000 701 Directorate for eHealth 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, reduced by: 17,000,000 from NOK 354 128 000 to NOK 337 128 000 710 Public health institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 30 400000 from NOK 784 626 000 to NOK 754 226 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 790 335000 to NOK 780 335000 714 Public health 21 Special operating costs, may be carried over, may be used under items 70, 74 and 79, reduced by: 2,080,000 from NOK 151 003 000 to NOK 148 923 000 60 Municipal actions, may be transferred, may be used under item 21, reduced by: 1500000 from NOK 78 969 000 to NOK 77 469 000 79 Other grants, may be carried over, may be used under item 21, reduced by: 6 360 000 from NOK 66 449 000 to NOK 60 089 000 720 Directorate for Health Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 98 128 000 from NOK 1,262,841,000 to NOK 1,164,713,000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, reduced by: 15 842,000 from NOK 32 598 000 to NOK 16 756 000 45 Major equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 4,211,000 from NOK 4211000 to NOK 0 60 Guest builder’s establishment for permanent staff, awarded with: [[NY]] 80,000,000 721 National Health Supervisors Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 720000 from NOK 129 342 000 to NOK 136 542 000 723 National health complaint body Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3,800,000 from DKK 124 441000 to NOK 128 241000 732 Regional health establishments 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, reduced by: 3,800,000 from NOK 19 686 000 to NOK 15 886 000 70 Specific grants, may be carried over, may be used under headings 72, 73, 74 and 75, increased by: 57 300000 from NOK 1786 241,000 to NOK 1 843 541000 72 Basic appropriations Health south-east RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 269 100000 from NOK 50,034,672 000 to NOK 49,765,572 000 73 Basic appropriations Health West RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 95,000,000 from NOK 17 659 836 000 to NOK 17 564 836 000 74 Basic appropriations Health Middle Norway RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 71 700 000 from NOK 13 328 177 000 to NOK 13 256 477 000 75 Basic appropriations Health North RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 64 200000 from NOK 11 942 678 000 to NOK 11 878 478 000 77 Outpatient activities, etc., estimates are increased by: 128,000,000 from NOK 3251 892,000 to NOK 3379 892 000 82 Investment loans, may be transferred, increased by: 70000000 from NOK 1566 883 000 to NOK 1636 883 000 747 State Radiation Protection 1 Operating costs granted by: [[NY]] 92 128 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, granted by: [[NY]] 17 342,000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, may be transferred, granted by: [[NY]] 4,211,000 750 National Agency for Medicinal Products Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 18 290 000 from NOK 287 554 000 to NOK 269 264 000 761 Nursing services 62 Daily activity offers, can be transferred, reduced by: 25,000,000 from NOK 262,652 000 to NOK 237,652 000 63 Investment grants, may be transferred, increased by: 107 600 000 from NOK 3298 100000 to NOK 3405 700000 65 Trials of state funding of care services, estimates, are reduced by: 564,000 from NOK 124 906 000 to NOK 1219 242 000 67 Development measures are increased by: 17,000,000 from NOK 68 908000 to NOK 85 908000 762 Primary Health Service 21 Special operating costs may be used under heading 70, reduced by: 100000 from NOK 70 290000 to NOK 70 190 000 73 Sexual health, may be transmitted, reduced by: 2 100000 from NOK 55 628 000 to NOK 53 528 000 765 Psychiatric and drug services 21 Special operating costs, may be carried over, may be used under item 72, reduced by: 380 000 from NOK 129,710000 to NOK 129,330000 73 Development measures, etc., are reduced by: 950000 from NOK 142 251000 to NOK 132 751000 75 Violence and traumatic stress, may be transmitted, increased by: 6,180 000 from NOK 173,031000 to NOK 179,211000 769 Exploration, etc. 21 Special operating expenses may be used under heading 70, increased by: 7000000 from NOK 14 548 000 to NOK 21 548 000 770 Dental practice services 21 Special operating costs may be used under heading 70, reduced by: 1,300,000 from NOK 30 251000 to NOK 28 951000 780 Research 50 Norway's Research Council, etc., is increased by 16,000,000 from NOK 332 207 000 to NOK 348 207 000 800 Ministry of Children and Gender Equality Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 800000 from NOK 152 080 000 to NOK 152 880 000 840 Action against violence and abuse 21 Special operating expenses may be used under heading 70, increased by: 400000 from NOK 19 715 000 to NOK 20 115000 844 Cash support 70 Grants, estimates, are reduced by: 100000 000 from NOK 1709 500000 to NOK 1609 500000 845 Child-rescue 70 Grants, estimates, are reduced by: 50,000,000 from NOK 15 180 000 to NOK 15 130 000 846 Family and growth measures 21 Special operating expenses may be used under items 50 and 71, increased by: 325000 from NOK 13 318 000 to NOK 13 643 000 79 Grants to international youth cooperation, etc., may be transferred, reduced by: 400000 from NOK 8,656 000 to NOK 8,256 000 847 EU Youth Programme Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, may be carried over, increased by: 1,245,000 from NOK 8 188 000 to NOK 9 433 000 848 The Children’s Ombudsman Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 570000 from NOK 15 554 000 to NOK 21 254 000 853 Children's protection and social affairs students Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 216 969 000 to NOK 214 969 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 3,700,000 from NOK 7 639 000 to NOK 11 339 000 854 Measures in the field of child protection 21 Special operating expenses may be used under item 71, increased by: 1,300,000 from NOK 68 176 000 to NOK 69 476 000 65 Reimbursement of municipal expenditure on child protection measures relating to single minor asylum seekers and refugees, estimates, is increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 470000 to NOK 520000 71 Development and information work, etc., can be used under heading 21, reduced by: 1 700 000 from NOK 33 155 000 to NOK 31 455000 856 Childcare centre for lone minor asylum seekers Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 346 700 000 from NOK 843 825000 to NOK 497 125 000 858 Directorate for Children, Youth and Family 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 325000 from NOK 14 283 000 to NOK 13 958 000 865 Consumer policy measures 21 Special operating costs, may be carried over, may be used under item 50, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 249 000 to NOK 1 149 000 867 Secretariat of the Market Council and Consumer Dispute Committee Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 11 466 000 to NOK 12 466 000 871 Equality and non-discrimination 21 Special operating costs, may be carried over, may be used under item 70, increased by: 5,310,000 from NOK 9 601,000 to NOK 14 911000 900 Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1,300,000 from NOK 430 248 000 to NOK 431 548 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 1 440,000 from NOK 87 601000 to NOK 89 041000 71 Environmental action Raufoss is increased by: 5,800,000 from NOK 320000 to NOK 9000000 75 Grants to specific projects may be transferred, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 12 900 000 to NOK 11 900 000 77 Grants to maritime food measures may be transferred, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 8 750 000 to NOK 10 750 000 79 Subsidies to the Mechatronics Innovation Lab, increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 30000000 to NOK 60000000 902 Adjusters Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 122 788 000 to NOK 123 788 000 905 Geological survey of Norway Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 8,000,000 from NOK 171 253 000 to NOK 179 253 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 4500000 from NOK 72 387 000 to NOK 76 887 000 909 Measures for employment of seafarers 73 Allowances for employment of seafarers, estimates, are increased by: 27,000,000 from NOK 2 10000000 to NOK 2 127000000 915 Council of Rules Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 060 000 from NOK 8 569 000 to NOK 9 629 000 917 Directorate for Fisheries This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Fisheries research and monitoring may be transferred, reduced by: 5,200,000 from NOK 67 800000 to NOK 62 600 000 919 Miscellaneous fishing purposes 76 Grants for fisheries research may be transferred, reduced by: 1 700 000 from NOK 22 100000 to NOK 20 400000 922 Space activities 73 EU space programmes are reduced by: 43,000,000 from NOK 280 200000 to NOK 237 200000 924 International cooperation and development programmes 70 Grants reduced by: 20 300000 from NOK 48 616 000 to NOK 28 316 000 925 Marine Research Institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 15 250000 from NOK 494 862,000 to NOK 479 612000 926 Research vessel Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 15 250000 from NOK 160 878 000 to NOK 176 128 000 927 NIFES This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Fisheries research and monitoring, may be transferred, increased by: 690000 from NOK 690000 to NOK 13 800000 940 Internationalisation measures 73 Aid for exports of capital goods granted by: [[NY]] 111 600 000 950 Management of state ownership 54 Loss provision, investment capital Investmentor AS, is reduced by: 35,000,000 from NOK 35000000 to NOK 0 95 Equity deposits to Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkkompani AS, are increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 144000000 to NOK 159000000 96 Shares reduced by: 90 000 000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 10000000 1100 Ministry of Agriculture and Food 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 1542 000 to NOK 16 542 000 45 Major equipment acquisitions and maintenance – ordinary administrative bodies, may be transferred, may be used under heading 50, increased by: 637 000 from NOK 2693 000 to NOK 330000 1115 Food Authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 1347 945000 to NOK 1348 945000 1300 Ministry of Transport Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 320 000 from NOK 187 379 000 to NOK 187 699 000 21 Special operating expenditure — studies, modernisation of the transport sector, reduced by: 2,200,000 from NOK 12 727 000 to NOK 10 527 000 74 Grants to the Rescue Company shall be increased by: 10000000 from NOK 83 500000 to NOK 93 500000 1320 State Road Service 23 Operation and maintenance of national roads, road and vehicle traffic control, etc., may be carried over, may be used under item 29, item 30, item 31 and item 72, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 11 477 894000 to NOK 11 467 894000 30 Road transport investments, may be carried over, may be used under item 23, item 29, item 31 and item 72, increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 14 321 800000 to NOK 14 336 800000 1321 New Roads AS 71 Net expenditure — Transfer of assets and liabilities from the State Road Administration, granted by: [[NY]] 6,632,000 1360 Coastal works Add User-ID Succeeded Operating expenditure, may be used under item 45, increased by: 10,700,000 from NOK 1 706 272,000 to NOK 1 716 972 000 30 New installations and major maintenance, may be transferred, increased by: 17,000,000 from NOK 408 800000 to NOK 425 800000 1370 Postal services 70 Purchases of postal and banking services are increased by: 1500000 from NOK 272,200000 to NOK 273,700000 1380 National communication authority 70 Contributions to telecommunications security and preparedness may be transferred, increased by: 76 500000 from NOK 80 200000 to NOK 156 700000 1400 Ministry of Climate and Environment Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 475000 from NOK 279 621 000 to NOK 279 146 000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 11 630,000 from NOK 49 246 000 to NOK 60 876 000 76 Support for national and international environmental measures may be transferred, reduced by: 18,000,000 from NOK 61 098 000 to NOK 43 098 000 1420 Directorate for the Environment Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2 214,000 from NOK 667 766 000 to NOK 669 980000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 50 900 000 from NOK 225,072 000 to NOK 275,972 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. State aquatic environmental measures are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 297 552,000 to NOK 287 552,000 35 State acquisitions, forest protection, may be transferred, increased by: 190,000,000 from NOK 442 112000 to NOK 632 112000 37 Forest planting, may be transmitted, reduced by: 14 375 000 from NOK 14 375000 to NOK 0 38 Restoration of bogs, may be transferred, reduced by: 950000 from NOK 23 625000 to NOK 14 125 000 61 Contributions to climate action and adaptation may be transferred, reduced by: 155 820,000 from NOK 156 920000 to NOK 1 100000 63 Return arrangements for end-of-life recreational craft, granted by: [[NY]] 20,000,000 65 Measures in municipalities with wolfevir in Hedmark, Akershus and Østfold are authorised by [[NY]] 20,000,000 69 Cleaning measures, may be carried over, may be used under items 39 and 79, reduced by: 62000000 from NOK 271,562 000 to NOK 209 562 000 70 Subsidies for aquatic environmental measures may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 54 755000 to NOK 64 755000 71 Marine litter, may be transferred, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 35 290000 to NOK 40 290000 73 Grants to predatory game measures may be transferred, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 70,051 000 to NOK 60,051 000 75 Payment of a mortgage for car wrecks, allocation of an estimate, is reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 731 760000 to NOK 711 760000 76 Reimbursement schemes, estimates, are increased by: 15 637 000 from NOK 76 042 000 to NOK 91 679 000 77 Various organisations and foundations, etc., are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 14 416 000 to NOK 15 416 000 81 World heritage, cultural landscapes and natural heritage creation, can be transferred, can be used under item 21, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 48 261000 to NOK 53 261000 82 Subsidies to endangered species and habitat types may be transferred, may be used under item 21, reduced by: 28 600 000 from NOK 74 989 000 to NOK 46 389 000 85 Natural information centres, may be transferred, increased by: 1 600 000 from NOK 55 714 000 to NOK 57 314 000 1429 Riksantikvaren 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 4,935000 from NOK 51 243 000 to NOK 46 308 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Conservation tasks, may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 24 304 000 to NOK 34 304 000 60 Cultural memory work in municipalities is increased by: 4500000 from NOK 416,000 to NOK 8 616 000 70 Grants to automatically preserved and other archaeological cultural memories may be transferred, increased by: 21,000,000 from NOK 33 564 000 to NOK 54 564 000 1471 Norwegian Polar Institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 7 681,000 from NOK 228 070 000 to NOK 220 389 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, reduced by: 187 000 from NOK 70 707 000 to NOK 70 520000 1473 Kings Bay AS 70 Grants increased by: 12,000,000 from NOK 41,573 000 to NOK 53,573 000 1474 Fram – North Region Centre for Climate and Environmental Research 70 Grants to private recipients may be transferred, may be used under item 50, increased by: 6,380,000 from NOK 28000000 to NOK 34 380 000 1482 International climate and development measures Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 52,000 from NOK 97 429 000 to NOK 97 377 000 1600 Ministry of Finance 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, reduced by: 11 500000 from NOK 58 618 000 to NOK 47 118 000 1605 Directorate for Financial Management Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 72 659,000 from NOK 378 130 000 to NOK 450 789 000 1608 Measures to strengthen State economic and project management 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 15 953 000 to NOK 17 953 000 1610 Customs duties Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 950000 from NOK 1476 431000 to NOK 1485 931000 1618 Tax receipts Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2,900,000 from NOK 5 662 708 000 to NOK 5 665 608 000 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 25,000,000 from NOK 190 300000 to NOK 165 300000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Major IT projects, may be transferred, reduced by: 115 200000 from NOK 358,700000 to NOK 243,500000 23 Special operating costs, a scheme, are increased by: 3,300,000 from NOK 84,751,000 to NOK 88,051 000 1620 Statistical Central Bureau Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 16 900 000 from NOK 562 986 000 to NOK 579 886 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, reduced by: 36 900 000 from NOK 242 453 000 to NOK 205 553 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 44 300000 to NOK 64 300000 1632 Compensation for VAT 61 Grants to municipalities and county councils, allocation of estimates, are increased by: 1,000,000 from NOK 21 200000000 to NOK 22 200000000 72 Grants to private and non-profit institutions serving households, estimates, are increased by: 90 000 000 from NOK 1980000000 to NOK 2 070000000 1633 Net scheme, State-paid VAT Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 400,000 from NOK 5 683 531000 to NOK 6 083 531000 1651 Central government debt, repayments and redemptions 98 Deductions on domestic government debt, allocation of estimates, are reduced by: 12 248,000,000 from NOK 63 207 000 to NOK 50 959 000 1670 Provisions for the Nordic Investment Bank 90 Paid-up basic own funds are reduced by: 5 170 000 from NOK 119 800000 to NOK 114 630000 1700 Ministry of Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 16 607,000 from NOK 772 976 000 to NOK 789 583 000 43 At the disposal of the Ministry of Defence, may be transferred, reduced by: 310000 from NOK 15 610000 to NOK 12 510000 71 Transfers to others, may be transferred, reduced by: 2,941,000 from NOK 60 825000 to NOK 57 884000 1710 Defence and new buildings and new installations Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, may be carried over, reduced by: 5,124 000 from NOK 3641 748 000 to NOK 3636 624 000 45 Major equipment acquisitions and maintenance, may be transferred, may be used under cover. 1760, entry 45, is increased by 13,000,000 from NOK 277,515000 to NOK 290,515000 1720 Joint management and command apparatus Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 13 561,000 from NOK 5 306 251,000 to NOK 5 292 690000 70 Interest on loans reduced by: 4,517,000 from NOK 4517000 to NOK 0 1723 National safety authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1,458,000 from NOK 258,716,000 to NOK 257,258 000 1725 Joint institutions and expenditure under the Defence Staff Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 108 638 000 from NOK 825 403 000 to NOK 716 765 000 1731 Army Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 58 846,000 from NOK 5 460 228 000 to NOK 5 519 074 000 1732 Sea defence services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 565000 from NOK 4 236 223 000 to NOK 4 236 788 000 1733 Air Force Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 34 034 000 from NOK 4 774 506 000 to NOK 4 808 540 000 1734 Home Security Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 22 170 000 from NOK 1378 353 000 to NOK 1 400 523 000 1735 Intelligence 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 20 100000 from NOK 1714 268 000 to NOK 1734 368 000 1740 Defence Logistics Organisation Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 101 652,000 from NOK 1797 022 000 to NOK 1898 674 000 1760 Defence and major acquisitions and maintenance Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 1760, entry 45, is increased by 193 073 000 from NOK 1 502,392,000 to NOK 1 695,465000 45 Major equipment acquisitions and maintenance, may be transferred, may be used under cover. 1761 entry 45 is increased by: 265 009 000 from NOK 4 907 916 000 to NOK 5 172 925000 48 Jointly financed investments, co-financed shares, may be transferred, reduced by: 10 136 000 from NOK 71 500000 to NOK 61 364000 1761 New base-solution fighter aircraft Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 1761 entry 45, reduced by 8 151,000 from NOK 194 686 000 to NOK 186 535 000 1790 Coast Guard Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 118 901,000 from NOK 1094 428,000 to NOK 975 527 000 1791 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 68 734 000 from NOK 925 343 000 to NOK 994 077 000 1792 Norwegian forces abroad Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 213 899 000 from NOK 823 497 000 to NOK 1037 396 000 1795 Cultural and non-profit-making purposes Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 4,620,000 from NOK 252 602,000 to NOK 257 222 000 1800 Ministry of Oil and Energy 21 Special operating costs, may be carried over, may be used under item 72, reduced by: 500000 from NOK 26 927 000 to NOK 26 427 000 72 Grants for oil and energy purposes, may be carried over, may be used under heading 21, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 5000000 to NOK 7000000 1810 Oil Directorate 23 Mission and cooperation activities may be transferred, reduced by: 8,000,000 from NOK 125000000 to NOK 117000000 1820 Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorate This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Flow and scrap prevention, may be carried over, can be used under items 45, 60 and 72, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 272,892 000 to NOK 292,892 000 1825 Energy conversion, energy and climate technologies 50 Transfer to the Energy Fund shall be increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 2 586000000 to NOK 2 601000000 95 Capital deposits are reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 15000000 to NOK 0 96 Shares reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 0 1840 CO 2 management 96 Shares, by [[NY]] 2000000 2309 Random expense Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 240,000,000 from NOK 4 181 873 000 to NOK 3 941 873 000 2410 State Loan Fund for Education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating expenditure, may be used under item 45, increased by: 6410000 from NOK 377 168 000 to NOK 383 578 000 45 Major equipment acquisitions and maintenance, may be transferred, may be used under item 1, reduced by: 560000 from NOK 560000 to NOK 0 50 Appropriations for education and training grants, estimates, are reduced by: 8,671,000 from NOK 6 583 093 000 to NOK 6 574 422 000 70 Training grants, allocation of estimates, are increased by: 23,031,000 from NOK 2725 294000 to NOK 2748 325000 71 Other scholarships, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 55 194,000 from NOK 830 404 000 to NOK 775 21000000 72 Interest subsidies, estimates, are increased by: 45 240 000 from NOK 906 162,000 to NOK 951 402,000 73 Depreciation, estimate allocation, is reduced by: 24 506,000 from NOK 614 766 000 to NOK 590 260 000 74 Loans losses are increased by: 12 450 000 from NOK 368 100000 to NOK 380 550000 90 Increased loans and interest payable, estimates, are reduced by: 251 359 000 from NOK 26 072 450000 to NOK 25 821 091000 2421 Innovation Norway 51 Seed funds ICT industries, loss reserves, are increased by: 46 400000 from NOK 37 200000 to NOK 83 600 000 70 Basic costs, increased by: 2500000 from NOK 166 489 000 to NOK 168 989 000 95 Seed funds ICT industries, equity, are increased by: 132 300000 from NOK 106 300000 to NOK 238 600 000 2429 Export Credit Norway AS 70 Grants increased by: 2000000 from NOK 107 698 000 to NOK 109 698 000 2440 Direct economic involvement of the country in the petroleum industry 30 Investments increased by: 1 500,000,000 from NOK 25 50000000 to NOK 27000000 2445 State-owned buildings 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue -4 726 960000 2 Operating expenditure 2 063 770000 3 Depreciation 1 311 514 000 4 Interest on the capital of the country 86 000 000 5 For investment purposes 1 129 976 000 Syd 135 700 000 30 Construction of buildings, may be transferred, increased by: 68,000,000 from NOK 138 001000 to NOK 206 001000 31 The start of ordinary construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 115000000 to NOK 125000000 33 The continuation of ordinary construction projects may be carried over, reduced by: 550,000,000 from NOK 2 256 254 000 to NOK 1 706 254 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 183 828 000 to NOK 283 828 000 2460 Export Credit Guarantee Institute 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue -180000000 2 Operating expenditure 180 000 000, forecasting appropriations Syd 0 2470 General government pension fund 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue -649 569 000, statement of estimates 2 Operating expenditure 461 105 000, forecasting appropriations 3 Depreciation 121 354 000 4 Interest on national capital 2 884 000 5 For investment purposes 38 070 000 6 For regulatory fund 4 020 000 Syd -22 136 000 2530 Parental carcass 70 Birth culls, estimates, are reduced by: 160,000,000 from NOK 19 810 000 to NOK 19 650 000 71 Single birth and adoption benefits, estimates, are increased by: 18,000,000 from NOK 612000000 to NOK 630000 72 Parental leave payments, estimates, are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 495000000 to NOK 485000000 73 In the event of adoption, the estimates shall be increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 54000000 to NOK 57000000 2541 Day money 70 Allowances, estimates, are reduced by: 1,850,000 from NOK 16 300000 to NOK 14 450000000 2542 State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, etc. 70 State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy etc., the allocation of an estimate shall be reduced by: 160,000,000 from NOK 975000000 to NOK 815000 2620 Social benefits to a lonely mother or father 70 Transitional aid, estimated allocation, shall be reduced by: 400,000 from NOK 2510000000 to NOK 2110000000 72 Childcare benefits, estimates, are reduced by: 60,000,000 from NOK 295000000 to NOK 235000000 73 Education aid, reduced by: 17,000,000 from NOK 42000000 to NOK 25000000 75 Grants for moving to work are increased by: 200000 from NOK 200000 to NOK 400000 76 Advances of contributions shall be increased by: 35,000,000 from NOK 715000000 to NOK 750000000 2650 Sykepenger 70 Sickness benefits for employees, etc., estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 660,000 from NOK 36 630000000 to NOK 35 970000000 71 Sickness benefits for self-employed persons, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 1 400000000 to NOK 1390000000 72 Nursing, training and care allowances, etc., estimates, are reduced by: 30,000,000 from NOK 75000000 to NOK 720000000 75 Health care holiday pay, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 30,000,000 from NOK 2040000000 to NOK 2 010000000 2651 Clearance of duties 70 Clearance of work, allocation of estimates, shall be reduced by: 220000000 from NOK 34 510000000 to NOK 34 290000000 71 Supplementary support, estimate allocation, is reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 295000000 to NOK 285000000 72 Medical statements, reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 415000000 to NOK 40000000 2655 Disability 70 Disadvantages, estimates, are reduced by: 1,159,500,000 from NOK 83 812000000 to NOK 82 652 500000 75 Men’s compensation in the event of occupational injury, estimated appropriations, shall be reduced by: 25,000,000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 75000000 76 Occupational injury prevention gml. legislation, allocation of estimates, shall be increased by: 2000000 from NOK 43000000 to NOK 45000000 2661 Basic and auxiliary aid, aids, etc. 70 Basic aid, estimates, is increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 1867000000 to NOK 1870000000 71 Auxiliary services, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 1632000000 to NOK 1630000000 73 Utilities, etc. in the course of work and training, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 133000000 to NOK 132000000 74 Supplements to cars, increased by: 55 500000 from NOK 709 500000 to NOK 765000 75 Improvement of functionality, assistive devices, is increased by: 91 300000 from NOK 2918 700000 to NOK 3 010000000 76 Improvement of functionality, assistive devices such as services, is reduced by: 16 200000 from NOK 271200000 to NOK 255000000 77 Orthopaedic aids, increased by: 105 000 000 from NOK 1305000000 to NOK 1410000000 78 Hearing aids, reduced by: 55,000,000 from NOK 700000 to NOK 6450000000 2670 Age 70 Basic pension, estimates, is reduced by: 890,000,000 from NOK 71 690000 to NOK 70 80000000 71 Supplementary pension, estimates, is reduced by: 1,790,000 from NOK 136,720000000 to NOK 134,930,000 72 Pensions on income, estimates, are increased by: 21,000,000 from NOK 615000000 to NOK 636000000 73 Special supplements, pension supplements, etc., estimates, are reduced by: 100000 000 from NOK 5940000000 to NOK 5840000000 2680 Survivors 70 Basic pension, estimates, is reduced by: 2,050,000 from NOK 1140000000 to NOK 1137 950000 71 Supplementary pension, estimates, is reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 860000 to NOK 850000000 72 Special supplement, allocation of estimates, is reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 88000000 to NOK 84000000 74 Education aid, reduced by: 100000 from NOK 400000 to NOK 300000 75 Childcare benefits, estimates, are reduced by: 830 000 from NOK 5830000 to NOK 5000000 2686 gravitational assistance 70 gravitational allowances, estimate appropriations, are increased by: 9 600 000 from NOK 181,400000 to NOK 191000000 2711 Specialist health services, etc. 70 Specialist assistance, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 1920000000 to NOK 1925000000 71 Psychological assistance, increased by 6000000 from NOK 287000000 to NOK 293000000 72 Dental treatment, reduced by: 80 500000 from NOK 2 507 000 to NOK 2 426 500000 76 Private laboratories and X-ray institutes shall be increased by: 38 800000 from NOK 891200000 to NOK 930000 2751 Medicinal products n.e.c. 70 Medicinal products, increased by 370 100000 from NOK 10 139 900000 to NOK 10 510000000 72 Medical consumables, reduced by: 63 500000 from NOK 203 500000 to NOK 1940000000 2752 Reimbursement of self-payment 70 Self-proprietary Tier 1 is reduced by: 40,000,000 from NOK 5000000 to NOK 4 960000000 71 Self-proprietary Tier 2 is reduced by: 62 600 000 from NOK 1067 600 000 to NOK 1005 000 2755 Health services in municipalities etc. 62 Fixed-income physiotherapists may be used under heading 71, reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 370000000 to NOK 368000000 70 General medical care, reduced by 40,000,000 from NOK 4845000000 to NOK 4805000000 71 Physiotherapy, may be used under heading 62, is increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 1 195000000 to NOK 1225000000 72 Nursing aid, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 61000000 to NOK 60000000 73 Chiropractor therapy, reduced by 1000000 from NOK 150000000 to NOK 149000000 75 Logopedic and orthopaedic treatments are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 142000000 to NOK 141000000 2756 Other health services 70 Health services in other EEA countries are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 25000000 to NOK 24000000 71 Health services abroad etc. are increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 4450000000 to NOK 460000 72 Health services to non-residents, etc., are reduced by: 17,000,000 from NOK 210000000 to NOK 193000000 2790 Other health measures 70 Contributions reduced by 5000000 from NOK 235000000 to NOK 230000000 3225 Basic training measures 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, reduced by: 65 399 000 from NOK 190 160 000 to NOK 124 761 000 3334 Film and media applications 2 Revenue from missions shall be reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 11 937,000 to NOK 8 937,000 3440 Police Directorate - the Police and Len’s Seat 2 Reimbursements, etc., are increased by: 40,000,000 from NOK 339 604000 to NOK 379 604000 5 Staff nursery, reduced by: 3147 000 from NOK 5447 000 to NOK 290000 6 Fee — Foreign affairs, increased by: 5848 000 from NOK 200 377 000 to NOK 206 225 000 3456 Emergency Communications Directorate 2 Reimbursements of operating costs increased by: 761,000 from NOK 40 253 000 to NOK 41 014 000 3 Reimbursements of special operating expenditure – services and products, increased by: 9 926,000 from NOK 63 756 000 to NOK 73 682 000 4 Reimbursements of major equipment acquisitions and maintenance are increased by: 82 737 000 from NOK 445000 to NOK 83 182 000 3490 Directorate for Foreign Affairs 3 Travel expenses for refugees to and from abroad, ODA-approved expenditure, are increased by: 2,602,000 from NOK 17 562 000 to NOK 20 164 000 4 Asylum recipients, ODA-approved expenditure, are reduced by: 152 261,000 from NOK 1374 310000 to NOK 1,222 049 000 6 Protection for refugees outside Norway, etc., ODA-approved expenditure, is increased by: 9 900 000 from NOK 20 997 000 to NOK 30 897 000 3496 Residence of refugees and measures for immigrants Add User-ID Succeeded Integration grants for transfer refugees, ODA-approved expenditure, are increased by: 60 399 000 from NOK 251,326 000 to NOK 311,725000 2 Specific grant for the settlement of single minor refugees, ODA-approved expenditure, is increased by: 415 479 000 from NOK 154 723 000 to NOK 570 202 000 3497 Norwegian and community education for adult immigrants Add User-ID Succeeded Norwegian receipt training, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 23 349,000 from NOK 85 198 000 to NOK 61 849 000 3510 Ministry Security and Service Organisation 2 Miscellaneous income, reduced by: 273,000 from NOK 21 501000 to NOK 21 228 000 3531 Royal property Add User-ID Succeeded Miscellaneous income, reduced by: 40000 from NOK 40000 to NOK 0 3595 State Charts, object lighting and national geographical infrastructure 3 Co-financing is reduced by: 6000000 from NOK 270,952 000 to NOK 264,952 000 3614 Housing loan scheme of the State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Fee income, loans, is reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 28000000 to NOK 24000000 90 Repayment of loans, reduced by: 3,300,000 from NOK 18 40000000 to NOK 15 10000000 3635 Wages and salaries, etc. 85 The imposition of arrears is increased by: 200000 from NOK 200000 to NOK 400000 3642 Petroleum control 3 Fee for supervision reduced by: 14,000,000 from NOK 80 980000 to NOK 66 980000 3720 Directorate for Health 2 Miscellaneous income, reduced by 19 241,000 from NOK 37 746 000 to NOK 18 505 000 4 Fee income, reduced by: 9 467 000 from NOK 44 013 000 to NOK 34 546 000 5 Health services to non-residents, etc., are reduced by: 195 000 from NOK 64 805000 to NOK 64 610 000 6 Guest builder for fixed doctors, granted with: [[NY]] 80,000,000 3732 Regional health establishments 86 Operating credits shall be increased by: 80000000 from NOK 5170000000 to NOK 5970000000 3747 State Radiation Protection 2 Miscellaneous revenue, by [[NY]] 19 241,000 4 Fee income, granted by: [[NY]] 8,467,000 3750 National Agency for Medicinal Products 4 Registration fee, reduced by 9 520,000 from NOK 121 642,000 to NOK 112 122 000 3847 EU Youth Programme Add User-ID Succeeded Grants from the European Commission are increased by: 1,245,000 from NOK 264 000 to NOK 369 000 3856 Childcare centre for lone minor asylum seekers 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, reduced by: 504 800000 from NOK 723 548 000 to NOK 218 748 000 3871 Equality and non-discrimination 1 Miscellaneous revenue, by [[NY]] 5,310,000 3900 Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries 86 Allowable periodic penalty payments [[NY]] 10000 3904 The Brønn Island Registers Add User-ID Succeeded Fee revenue, increased by: 26 500000 from NOK 473 512 000 to NOK 500 012 000 3950 Management of state ownership 87 Deposit guarantee scheme, Export finance ASA, is granted by: [[NY]] 30,700,000 4100 Ministry of Agriculture and Food 40 Sale of property, by: [[NY]] 637 000 4400 Ministry of Climate and Environment 50 Recovery of loss funds from the State Environmental Fund, granted by: [[NY]] 37 600 000 4420 Directorate for the Environment 7 Fees, allowances system, are reduced by: 3 220 000 from NOK 11 344 000 to NOK 8 124 000 4602 Financial supervision 3 The case-handling fee shall be increased by: 500000 from NOK 10 370000 to NOK 10 870000 4605 Directorate for Financial Management Add User-ID Succeeded Economic services are increased by: 23 400000 from NOK 49 600 000 to NOK 73000000 4610 Customs duties 85 Infringement fee, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 7000000 to NOK 17000000 4618 Tax receipts 87 Traffic sanctions, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 70000000 to NOK 75000000 88 Delay fee, Accounting Register, is increased by: 52,000,000 from NOK 248000000 to NOK 300000 89 Infringement fee, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 13000000 to NOK 10000000 4710 Defence and new buildings and new installations 47 Sale of property, increased by: 360 600 000 from NOK 269 425000 to NOK 630 025 000 4720 Joint management and command apparatus Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 13382,000 from NOK 107 247 000 to NOK 120 629 000 4725 Joint institutions and receipts under the Defence Staff Add User-ID Succeeded Revenues are reduced by: 6,605,000 from NOK 24,622 000 to NOK 18,017 000 4731 Army Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 63 993 000 to NOK 93 993 000 4760 Defence and major acquisitions and maintenance Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 57,593,000 from NOK 29 750 000 to NOK 87 343 000 45 Large new acquisitions, granted by [[NY]] 98 156 000 4791 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 69 083,000 from NOK 838 289 000 to NOK 907 372 000 4810 Oil Directorate 2 Mission and cooperation revenue, reduced by: 8,000,000 from NOK 124,625000 to NOK 116,625000 5309 Random income 29 Miscellaneous, increasing by 200000000 from NOK 150000000 to NOK 350000000 5310 State Loan Fund for Education 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, increased by: 230000 from NOK 22 350000 to NOK 24 700000 29 Appointment fee, reduced by 5,572,000 from NOK 23 811000 to NOK 18 239 000 89 Pure fees, reduced by: 2,292,000 from NOK 105,417 000 to NOK 103,125 000 90 Reduced loans and interest payable reduced by: 395 291,000 from NOK 10 051 888 000 to NOK 9 656 597 000 93 Conversion of training loans into scholarships is reduced by: 90 880,000 from NOK 6 335 577 000 to NOK 6 244 697 000 5325 Innovation Norway 50 Return from a nationwide innovation scheme is increased by: 26 200000 from NOK 32 500000 to NOK 58 700000 51 Recovery of funds for loss and risk relief, seed funds, by: [[NY]] 67 125 000 91 Returned capital, Seed Fund, is increased by: 148 900 000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 158 900 000 5351 Transfer from Norway’s Bank 85 Transfer, increased by 26,000,000 from NOK 17 700000000 to NOK 17 726000000 5440 Direct economic involvement of the country in the petroleum industry 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue 139 800000000 2 Operating expenditure -26 800000000 3 Expenses of exploration and field development -1 500000000 4 Depreciation -23 500 000 000 5 Interest on the capital of the country -3700 000 000 Syd 84 300000000 30 Depreciation reduced by: 1 900 000 000 from NOK 25 40000000 to NOK 23 50000000 5445 State-owned buildings 39 Provisions for investment purposes are increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 1029 976 000 to NOK 129 976 000 5491 Depreciation of the capital of the State in the course of its business operations 30 Depreciation increased by: 83 480 000 from NOK 1353 888 000 to NOK 1437 368 000 5501 Taxes on wealth and income 70 Rates of excise duty, taxes on wealth, etc., are reduced by: 21,000,000 from NOK 54 040000000 to NOK 54 019000000 72 Common taxes are increased by: 138,000,000 from NOK 184,027000000 to NOK 184,165000000 5543 Environmental taxes on mineral products, etc. 70 CO 2 tax, increased by: 290,000,000 from NOK 6 984000000 to NOK 7 274000000 5571 Sectoral taxes under the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs 70 Petroleum control – sector fee, increased by: 14,000,000 from NOK 85 040000 to NOK 99 040000 5572 Sectoral taxes under the Ministry of Health and Welfare 74 Supervisory fee, reduced by: 3770 000 from NOK 3770 000 to NOK 0 5577 Sectoral charges under the Ministry of Transport 74 Sectoral charges Coastal works are reduced by: 6 100000 from NOK 789 800000 to NOK 783 700000 5607 Interest of the housing loan scheme in the State pension fund 80 Interest, reduced by 33,000,000 from NOK 1075000000 to NOK 1042000000 5617 Interest of the State Loan Fund for Education 80 Interest, reduced by 33 992,000 from NOK 3729 047 000 to NOK 3695 055000 5618 Shares in Posten Norge AS 85 Dividends reduced by: 120,000,000 from NOK 120000000 to NOK 0 5625 Interest and dividends from Innovation Norway 80 Interest on loans from government funds is increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 90000000 to NOK 140000000 81 The interest margin, the innovation loan scheme, is reduced by: 4,400,000 from NOK 30000000 to NOK 25 600 000 85 Dividends, the low-risk loan scheme, are increased by: 52 600 000 from NOK 105000000 to NOK 157 600 000 86 Dividends from investment funds for North-West Russia and Eastern Europe are reduced by: 500000 from NOK 500000 to NOK 0 5631 Shares in AS Vinmonopolet 85 The State’s surplus share is increased by: 42 800000 from NOK 32000000 to NOK 74 800000 5652 Landskog SF - interest and dividends 80 Interest, increased by: 740000 from NOK 2060000 to NOK 2180000 85 Dividends increased by: 37 400000 from NOK 16000000 to NOK 53 400000 5656 Shares in companies under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries 85 Dividends increased by: 2,288 800,000 from NOK 13 412 300000 to NOK 15 701 100000 5680 Statnett SF 85 Dividends reduced by: 16,000,000 from NOK 366000000 to NOK 350000000 5701 Miscellaneous income 71 Reimbursement in the event of occupational injury shall be increased by: 83 800000 from NOK 937 440000 to NOK 1021 240 000 73 Reimbursement by contributors shall be reduced by: 25,000,000 from NOK 250000000 to NOK 225000000 88 Accessory centres, etc., are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 65000000 to NOK 63000000 5704 State guarantee for claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy 70 Dividends, reduced by 40,000,000 from NOK 220000000 to NOK 180000000 5705 Reimbursement of daily allowances 70 Reimbursement of daily allowances, State guarantee in the event of bankruptcy, is reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 30000000 to NOK 27000000’» ‘... Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the State budget for 2018, to put forward a plan to escalate child welfare in order to return to the level of 1996 and, in addition, to provide additional child welfare for families with a single dependant or where there are many children.’ Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce a highly redistributive inheritance tax, with high deductions, to ensure that the richest also have to pay a fair tax.’ Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce a national housing plan, which can ensure the overall planning of the housing structure we need.’ Proposal No. 50 sounds: «The government is asked to set up a public development company and to make proposals to encourage municipalities to set up municipal development companies.» Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to open up shared ownership, so that more people are given ownership.’ Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose to legislate on the right to a full position by stating in the law that the full position shall be the general rule.’ Proposal No. 67 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to strengthen women’s movement so that more people can work for economic freedom and equality for minority women.’ Proposal No. 69 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the basic amount of the population’s security is regulated at least as prices grow.’ Proposal No. 70 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to start work on the introduction of the right to negotiate in the event of social security settlements.’ Proposal No. 73 sounds: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2018 is asked to reintroduce holiday pay for the unemployed.’ Proposal No. 80 sounds: ‘The Government requests that all waste exported be sorted.’ Proposal No. 81 sounds: ‘The Government requests that all sewage sludge be treated preferably through biogas and bio-fertilisation or compost production. For major installations, the general rule shall be that the biogas is upgraded to biomethane and sold as fuel. Such a requirement shall be promoted by the end of 2018.’ Proposal No. 92 sounds: ‘The government of the state budget for 2018 asks the government to submit proposals to support the state budget also in 2018 for Grenland Fritheater.’ Proposal No. 100 sounds: ‘The government is asking for all new plans for development and operation to use the standard contracts negotiated by the supplier industry and Norwegian oil and gas.’ Proposal No. 101 sounds: ‘The government requests the use of State ownership in Statoil to ensure that the standard contracts negotiated with the supplier industry are used.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e18320	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 85-87, 89, 91, 93-95, 97 and 99, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 85 sounds: ‘The government is asking companies for a minimum amount of recycled raw materials in public procurement production.’ Proposal No. 86 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the same requirements are imposed on private and public waste actors for evidence of environmentally optimal final treatment of collected waste.’ Proposal No. 87 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a national waste treatment and plant plan.’ Proposal No. 89 sounds: «The government asks the government to enter into an agreement with Oslo and Akershus for at least 50 pst. State co-financing of the costs of upgrading the signalling system of the Oslo T-Bahn.’» Proposal No. 91 reads: ‘As of 1 July 2017, the Government requests the sale to use a new cycle in determining the one-off fee and to make a deposit of 40 pst. [[WLTP]] on the CO 2 and NO x components of the one-off charge for the cars using the old cycle.» Proposal No. 93 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals to ensure that the municipalities cannot shorten social assistance for the corresponding sum of families receiving child welfare.’ Proposal No. 94 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to adjust the housing aid in such a way as to re-establish under-regulation’. Proposal No. 95 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the legislation on housing aid in order to provide disadvantaged people with housing support in line with what they would have received before the conversion after the disability reform.’ Proposal No. 97 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to propose to the Stortinget a new scheme in GIEK that covers both political and commercial risks associated with renewable investment in developing countries, so that it can be addressed in the context of the State budget for 2018.’ Proposal No. 99 sounds: ‘The decision on the CO 2 tax on mineral products, § 1, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: As of 1 July 2017, Law 19 May 1933 provides that: 11 on excise duties, CO 2 tax is paid to the central government on the importation and domestic production of the following mineral products by the following amounts: a) mineral oil DKK 1,32 per litre. [[(general rate):]] Mineral oil for domestic allowances: DKK 1,21 per litre; to other domestic aviation and non-commercial private flights: DKK 1,21 per litre; for the wood processing industry, the herring and fishmeal industries: kr 0,35 per litre; for fishing and fishing in close waters: DKK 0,32 per litre; subject to an excise duty on fuel: NOK 1,32 per litre; (b) petrol: DKK 1,14 per litre; c) natural gas: DKK 0,99 per Sm 3 d) LPG: DKK 1,49 per kg.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e18436	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 71, 75, 76, 78, 79 and 82-84, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 71 sounds: ‘The Government requests the reintroduction of the diagnostic list to ensure exemption from the payment of physiotherapy for many with serious diseases and conditions.’ Proposal No. 75 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment by 1 January 2019 of a CO 2 fund for business in accordance with the model of the organisation and financing of the NO X fund with the establishment of the fund at the latest.’ Proposal No. 76 sounds: ‘The government’s request for a State Budget 2018 proposal was without prejudice to the base charge on packaging as a fossil-based fee and not to tax on recycled and biological content.’ Proposal No. 78 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the nationally binding rule that zero-emission cars should never pay more than 50 pst. by full tariff for parking, toll and ferry tariffs shall be imposed immediately and at the latest from 1 July 2017.’;» Proposal No. 79 sounds: ‘The government is asking municipalities and economic operators to sort out food waste and plastic and ensure that this goes to biogas or fertilisers and material recovery in line with the proposal of the Environment Directorate. This shall apply to private households and industries generating household-like waste.» Proposal No. 82 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a product liability scheme for the collection of spray cans as special waste, so that all outlets have to facilitate the return of spray cans.’ Proposal No. 83 sounds: ‘The government is asking for legislative proposals on how waste infrastructure can be regulated by the Planning and Building Act, in order to make waste infrastructure requirements equivalent to road, water and sewer infrastructure requirements before construction starts.’ Proposal No. 84 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose amendments to the Pollution Act in order to ensure that municipalities can oblige economic operators to join and use waste vacuum cleaners in the same line as district heating.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e18497	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 41, 45, 47, 60 and 62 of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the prompt introduction of a genuine Youth Guarantee to provide training, activities or measures to assist young people under 25 at work within 90 days.’ Proposal No. 45 sounds: «The government is asked to propose a tax system that ensures clear tax relief to those who have the least, while those who have the most have to pay significantly more.» Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to distort the tax system from subsidising investment in property to invest in machinery and technology that increases productivity and creates more jobs.’ Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose an investment programme for climate adaptation in the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of the integration grant in order to ensure that those who are going to stay in the country have access to work and success in Norway more quickly.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e18537	There is a vote on proposal No. 58, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to start work on replacing the EEA Agreement with a normal trade agreement.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e18554	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 61, 63-65, 72, 74, 77, 90 and 98, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The government is asked to reintroduce better and more comprehensive Norwegian training in asylum recipients in order to ensure better and faster integration into society and working life for those to remain in Norway.’ Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a proposal to increase the effort in the Grorud Valley and other important areas that need good territorial programmes.’ Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to present a comprehensive plan for areas in need of programmes similar to the Groruddalssatingen.’ Proposal No. 65 sounds: «The government is asking the government in dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo to continue and strengthen the area operation in Søndre Nordstrand city from 2018.» Proposal No. 72 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the Government of the State budget for 2018 to propose the removal of tax on termination benefits for older workers who lose their jobs.’ Proposal No. 74 sounds: «The government is asked to carry out a survey on the living conditions of the disabled, income development and expenditure levels of the disabled in recent years.» Proposal No. 77 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to come back with a long-term solution to preserve the genetic material of the Hardanger salmon.’ Proposal No. 90 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with proposals to introduce a differentiated tax advantage for chargeable hybrids, in order to give greater benefit to chargeable hybrids with a long electric range than short electric range.’ Proposal No. 98 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a timetable for state involvement in broadband coverage in those parts of the country where the market will not ensure coverage.’ The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e18614	There is a vote on proposal No. 66, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for action to be taken to speed up the recognition of foreign education so that more immigrants can have better opportunities in the labour market.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e18631	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 68, 88 and 96, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 68 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to remove the cash support and to replace it with a waiting allowance for parents waiting in kindergarten.’ Proposal No. 88 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the appropriations from Norway’s climate and forest action are in line with the objectives of contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the conservation of the carbon-binding capacity of the natural forest. Means shall not be used to finance actions that will increase greenhouse gas emissions and degrade natural forests, including facilitating and supporting industrial logging in rainforest.» Proposal No. 96 sounds: «The Government is asked immediately to implement Decision 656 to introduce a transitional scheme for foster parents on social security benefits so that the families concerned do not suffer any more.» [[2016-2017]] The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e18661	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 40, 42–44, 48, 52, 55–57 and 59 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to continue the protection system for the major debtors’.» Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals for a proper public debt register, for the introduction of a cap on interest rates and for stronger measures against aggressive debt marketing.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the housing support in such a way that the injured and others who have unlawfully lost it are helped again.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a life-cycle survey to provide an overview of the life situation of the thousands of people who have lost their housing support in recent years.’ Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The government is asking, in the context of the State budget for 2018, to present a strong package of measures to combat tax crime.’ Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to give the House Bank the strength to finance the construction of several rental properties.’ Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose stricter penalties for breaches of the Working Environment Act and the Public Service Act.’ Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make the necessary legislative proposals to ensure that undertakings committing serious crimes can be compulsorily dissolved.’ Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The government is asking for greater opportunities for a ban on industry for actors who repeatedly seriously violate the Public Procurement Act.’ Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals on how the government can contribute to technology transfer programmes, so that we are careful to use the expertise of the fossil industry to build, including in the future.’ The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e18726	There is a vote on proposal No. 53, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce a stronger right to permanent employment by reverseing the weaknesses of the Labour Environment Act which increase the possibility of temporary employment.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e18743	There is a vote on proposal No. 39, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to remove the cuts in the child supplement for disabled persons.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e18760	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that municipalities set up special teams to help schools provide students with good reading, writing and calculation training as early as possible.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e18777	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16, 21, 25 and 35, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The 2017 budget shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 21 Government Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2,700,000 from NOK 169 500000 to NOK 172 200000 41 Size Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 924 500000 to NOK 919 500000 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 15000000 to NOK 10000000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 514000000 to NOK 509000000 51 National audit Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 468 200000 to NOK 464 200000 61 Supreme Court Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 75 000 from NOK 108 462 000 to NOK 108 387 000 100 Ministry of Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 14,000,000 from NOK 2 244 698 000 to NOK 2 230 698 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 2500000 from NOK 47 876 000 to NOK 45 376 000 115 Purposes of food promotion, culture and information 70 Subsidies for nutritional, cultural and information purposes may be transferred, used under item 1 may be reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 49 201000 to NOK 42 201000 118 North-area actions, etc. 70 North-area actions and project cooperation with Russia can be transferred, can be used under item 1 reduced by: 850000 from NOK 307 641000 to NOK 299 141 000 152 Assistance to the Middle East and North Africa 78 Regional allocation for the Middle East and North Africa may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 556000000 to NOK 566000000 163 Emergency aid, humanitarian aid and human rights 70 Emergency aid and humanitarian aid may be transferred, increased by: 273,847,000 from NOK 4 436 124 000 to NOK 4 709 971 000 72 Human rights, can be transferred, increased by: 14,000,000 from NOK 298 300000 to NOK 312 300000 165 Research, empowerment and evaluation 70 Research, may be transferred, increased by: 12,000,000 from NOK 156000000 to NOK 168000000 167 Refugee measures in Norway, approved as development aid [[ODA]] Special operating costs are reduced by: 349 800000 from NOK 2 949 375000 to NOK 2 599 575000 169 Global health and education 70 Global health, can be transmitted, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 3065000000 to NOK 3075000000 170 United Nations organisations, etc. 71 UN Population Fund [[UNFPA]] 22,000,000 from NOK 401000000 to NOK 423000000 76 United Nations and global challenges, can be transmitted, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 233 300000 to NOK 238 300000 172 Debt-related measures 70 Debt relief, balance of payments support and capacity building may be transferred, increased by: 41,000,000 from NOK 270000000 to NOK 311000000 200 Ministry of Knowledge Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1 400000 from NOK 347 426 000 to NOK 346 026 000 220 Directorate of Education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 14 350 000 from NOK 301,405000 to NOK 287,055000 70 Supplements to educational material, etc. , may be transferred, may be used under item 21, increased by: 650000 from NOK 58 685000 to NOK 65 185000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. State upper secondary schools and post-secondary non-tertiary schools Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 300000 from NOK 100 539 000 to NOK 100 839 000 224 Centres for ICT in education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 350000 from NOK 68 634 000 to NOK 68 984 000 225 Basic training measures 60 Grants to landlines are increased by: 600 000 from NOK 221 444 000 to NOK 222 044 000 64 Aid for the training of children and young people seeking residence in Norway is reduced by: 132 119 000 from NOK 384 162000 to NOK 252 043 000 67 Grants for training in Finnish are increased by: 2,200,000 from NOK 7 165 000 to NOK 9 365 000 70 Grants for training of apprentices, letter-of-mortgage and special-needed apprentices shall be increased by: 8,000,000 from NOK 59 490000 to NOK 67 490000 73 Grants to study stays abroad are reduced by: 3,600,000 from NOK 17 749 000 to NOK 14 149 000 226 Quality development of initial training 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 2,060,000 from NOK 935 787 000 to NOK 933 727 000 61 Specific measures in the field of vocational training [[NY]] 60,000,000 70 Grants to NAROM shall be increased by: 6,621,000 from NOK 8 379 000 to NOK 15000000 73 Grants to production schools are awarded by: [[NY]] 20,000,000 228 Grants to independent schools, etc. 71 Secondary free time schools, estimates, are reduced by: 9000000 from NOK 1602,854000 to NOK 1593,854000 83 Grants to in-house and fresh schools providing education to adult students without secondary education are awarded by: [[NY]] 18,000,000 230 State Special Educational Support System Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 705 085 000 to NOK 700 085 000 231 Kindergartens 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 51, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 440 190 000 to NOK 430 190 000 50 Grants to Sami nursery services are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 16 565 000 to NOK 21 565 000 60 Grants to multiple kindergarten teachers are reduced by: 172 200000 from NOK 172 200000 to NOK 0 70 Grants for swimming in kindergartens, pilot projects by non-governmental organisations shall be increased by: 5000000 from NOK 35 290000 to NOK 40 290000 253 Higher Education Colleges 70 Grants to higher education institutions shall be increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 823 259 000 to NOK 826 259 000 255 Contribution to Peace and Human Rights Centres 73 Nansen Fredssenter, increased by 1000000 from NOK 6 209 000 to NOK 7 209 000 256 Competence Norway Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 900000 from NOK 61 480 000 to NOK 62 380 000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 300000 from NOK 11 510000 to NOK 11 810000 257 Competence plus 70 Grants, may be transferred, increased by: 17,000,000 from NOK 162,237 000 to NOK 179,237 000 260 Universities and higher education institutions 50 State universities and higher education institutions are reduced by: 31 472 000 from NOK 33 072 705000 to NOK 33 041 233 000 70 Private higher education institutions are increased by: 5968 000 from NOK 1357 637 000 to NOK 1 363 605 000 270 International mobility and social purposes for students 74 Subsidies for welfare work are increased by: 6000000 from NOK 84 756 000 to NOK 90 756 000 280 Common Units Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 750,000 from NOK 129 558 000 to NOK 130 308 000 50 Centres for Internationalisation of Education are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 83 125 000 to NOK 93 125 000 281 Joint actions for universities and higher education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under heading 70, increased by: 62 670,000 from NOK 248 870000 to NOK 311 540000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 13 421,000 to NOK 11 421000 50 Grants to the Norwegian Research Council shall be increased by: 36 400000 from NOK 191 436 000 to NOK 227 836 000 70 Other transfers, may be used under item 1, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 58 226 000 to NOK 60 226 000 283 Meteorology purposes 72 International cooperation projects are reduced by: 11 040000 from NOK 154 119 000 to NOK 143 079 000 287 Research institutes and other activities 60 Regional research funds, research grants, are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 215 264 000 to NOK 220 264 000 288 International cooperation actions 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 340,000 from NOK 43,892,000 to NOK 44,232 000 72 International basic research organisations are increased by: 321,000 from NOK 321,841,000 to NOK 322,162 000 73 The EU Framework Programme for Research may be transferred, reduced by: 338 313,000 from NOK 2 194 592 000 to NOK 1 856 279 000 75 UNESCO quota shall be reduced by: 1,300,000 from NOK 23 933 000 to NOK 22 633 000 315 Voluntary objectives 70 VAT compensation to non-governmental organisations is increased by: 75,000,000 from NOK 1319 900000 to NOK 1394 900000 82 VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities is increased by: 23 100000 from NOK 175 920000 to NOK 199 020 000 86 Grants to international cycling in Norway shall be increased by: 750000 from NOK 13 590 000 to NOK 21 090 000 320 Norwegian Cultural Council 55 Norwegian Cultural Fund, reduced by 11,000,000 from NOK 893 956 000 to NOK 882 956 000 321 Artist's Economy 75 Remuneration schemes are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 190 347 000 to NOK 186 347 000 322 Building and public spaces 50 Arts in public spaces are reduced by: 6000000 from NOK 25000000 to NOK 19000000 70 National cultural buildings may be transferred, increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 178 500000 to NOK 228 500000 323 Music and performing arts Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3 192,000 from NOK 89 623 000 to NOK 92 815 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 2,700,000 from NOK 60 947 000 to NOK 58 247 000 71 Regional/participating institutions are increased by: 1,300,000 from NOK 756 680000 to NOK 757 980000 325 General cultural purposes Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2,492,000 from NOK 116,715000 to NOK 114,223000 21 Research, investigation and special operating costs may be transferred, increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 13 407 000 to NOK 17 407 000 79 At the disposal, under item 1, may be reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 690000 to NOK 490000 328 Museum and visual art 70 The national museum network shall be increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 1476 690000 to NOK 1479 690000 78 Various fixed measures are increased by: 5,300,000 from NOK 79 120000 to NOK 84 420000 334 Film and media applications 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 11 524 000 to NOK 8 524 000 73 Regional film bet, may be transferred, increased by: 1000000 from NOK 75 720 000 to NOK 76 720 000 340 The Norwegian Church 70 Framework grants to the Norwegian Church, may be used under item 1, increased by: 4,800,000 from NOK 1 969 173 000 to NOK 1 973 973 000 73 Grants to the Norwegian Church – settlement of holiday pay obligations, etc. , increased by: 21 750 000 from NOK 125000000 to NOK 146 750 000 400 Ministry of Justice and Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1 873 000 from NOK 494 247 000 to NOK 492 374 000 23 Special operational expenditure, research and knowledge development may be transferred, reduced by: 131 000 from NOK 31 31 000 to NOK 31 179 000 410 Courts of Justice Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 54,053,000 from NOK 2 334 225 000 to NOK 2 388 278 000 411 Court of Justice Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 410 entry 1 is reduced by: 219 000 from NOK 84 425000 to NOK 84 206 000 430 Crime prevention services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 93 287 000 from NOK 4 601 471,000 to NOK 4 694 758 000 432 Education centre of criminal services [[CRUS]] Operating costs are increased by: 19 600 000 from NOK 189 372 000 to NOK 208 972 000 440 Police Directorate - the Police and Len’s Seat Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 378 534 000 from NOK 16 710 504 000 to NOK 17 089 038 000 70 Grants shall be increased by: 1 100000 from NOK 82 080 000 to NOK 83 180 000 442 Police College Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 39 800000 from NOK 585 294000 to NOK 625 094000 444 Police security service [[PST]] Operating costs are increased by: 690000 from NOK 890 524 000 to NOK 897 424 000 445 Higher Public Prosecutor's Office Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 265000 from NOK 244 538 000 to NOK 244 803 000 448 Commissioner for Borders Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 300000 from NOK 5 165 000 to NOK 5 465000 451 Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 14 200000 from NOK 746 332 000 to NOK 760 532 000 70 Transfers to private individuals are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 6 338 000 to NOK 8 338 000 452 Central crisis management Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 950,000 from NOK 26 651 000 to NOK 25 701 000 454 Rescue helicopter service 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 301 851,000 from NOK 2 140 161000 to NOK 1 838 310000 455 Rescue services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 104,778 000 to NOK 103,778 000 456 Emergency Communications Directorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 7,248,000 from NOK 211 578 000 to NOK 218 826 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Special operating expenditure - services and products, increased by: 10,029,000 from NOK 63 653 000 to NOK 73 682 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 159 737 000 from NOK 359 109 000 to NOK 518 846 000 467 Norwegian Lovtidend Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 507,000 from NOK 421,000 to NOK 4 728,000 469 Vertegration scheme Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 17 732,000 from NOK 195 963 000 to NOK 213 695 000 472 Victim compensation and counselling services for crime victims Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 123 000 from NOK 24 510000 to NOK 24387000 70 Compensation for victims of violence, allocation of an estimate, shall be increased by: 52,000,000 from NOK 365 503 000 to NOK 417 503 000 474 Conflict Board Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 509,000 from NOK 117,016,000 to NOK 117,525000 490 Directorate for Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 500000 from NOK 1 187 762,000 to NOK 1 182 262 000 21 Special operating costs, asylum receipts, are reduced by: 381 585 000 from NOK 2200 405000 to NOK 1 818 820000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Special operating costs, interpretation and translation, are reduced by: 41,700,000 from NOK 62 006000 to NOK 20 306 000 60 Grants to host municipalities for asylum recipients shall be reduced by: 3 122 000 from NOK 230 469 000 to NOK 227 347 000 70 Social benefits for residents in reception of asylum are increased by: 5,060,000 from NOK 308 350000 to NOK 313 410000 71 Grants to activities for children in reception of asylum are increased by: 1500000 from NOK 31 046 000 to NOK 32 546 000 72 Return of asylum seekers with a refusal and a return for refugees, the allocation of an estimate, shall be increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 101 117 000 to NOK 151 117 000 75 Travel costs for refugees to and from abroad may be transferred, reduced by: 109 000 from NOK 15 623 000 to NOK 15 514 000 491 Foreigner’s Office Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 21, reduced by: 352,000 from NOK 320 187 000 to NOK 319 835000 495 Directorate for Integration and Diversity Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 200000 from NOK 262,727,000 to NOK 262,527,000 496 Residence of refugees and measures for immigrants 21 Special operating costs, knowledge development, may be transferred, reduced by: 750,000 from NOK 43 704 000 to NOK 42 954000 60 Integration grants, may be transferred, increased by: 56 318,000 from NOK 12 134 571 000 to NOK 12 190 889 000 61 Specific grant for the settlement of lone minor refugees, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 390 099 000 from NOK 3 768 338 000 to NOK 3 378 239 000 62 Local migration measures are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 179 906000 to NOK 189 906000 73 Grants shall be reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 15 035 000 to NOK 5 035 000 497 Norwegian and community education for adult immigrants This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Samples in Norwegian and community knowledge for adult immigrants are increased by: 750,000 from NOK 29 195 000 to NOK 29 945000 60 Grants for training in Norwegian and social skills for adult immigrants are reduced by: 83 770,000 from NOK 2 303 003 000 to NOK 2 219 233 000 500 Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2,200,000 from NOK 396 327,000 to NOK 394 127 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 2,380,000 from NOK 88 443 000 to NOK 86 063 000 25 Pre-project new government quarter, may be transferred, granted by: [[NY]] 4,000,000 510 Ministry Security and Service Organisation Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 39 820,000 from NOK 703 333 000 to NOK 663 513 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Joint expenditure of the Departments and the Office of the Prime Minister shall be reduced by: 10,449 000 from NOK 136,894000 to NOK 126,445000 520 Grants to political parties Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 500000 from NOK 8,730000 to NOK 8,230000 525 The County Departments Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 59 080 000 from NOK 1 838 069 000 to NOK 1778 989 000 530 Construction projects outside the housing arrangement 33 The continuation of construction projects may be transferred, reduced by: 300000 000 from NOK 245000000 to NOK 2 155000000 36 Artistic decoration, may be transferred, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 19000000 to NOK 9000000 540 Directorate for Management and ICT Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 700 000 from NOK 266,711000 to NOK 268,411000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 27 310000 to NOK 26 310000 541 ICT policy 70 Subsidies for the management development and coordination of ICT policies can be used under Chapters. 541, entry 22 is increased by: 180 000 from NOK 6328 000 to NOK 6508000 542 International ICT Cooperation and Development Programme 70 Grants to international programmes may be transferred, reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 31 300000 to NOK 29 300000 545 The Data Protection Authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 140 000 from NOK 50 639 000 to NOK 50 779 000 552 National cooperation for regional development 62 National measures for local community development, funded by: [[NY]] 4500000 560 Composite 50 The combination is increased by: 2,550 000 from NOK 301,617 000 to NOK 304,167 000 563 International reindeer management centre Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 380 000 from NOK 5 929 000 to NOK 6 309 000 567 National minorities 25 Measures for the Roma population(s), may be transmitted, granted by: [[NY]] 2000000 60 Space measures may be transmitted, reduced by: 220000 from NOK 6 371,000 to NOK 4 121 000 71 Grants to the Romani people’s cultural fund(s) shall be reduced by: 5,374 000 from NOK 5 374 000 to NOK 0 74 The cultural and resource centres of Norwegian spaces shall be reduced by: 10,500,000 from NOK 12000000 to NOK 1500000 75 Temporary grant scheme to the Roma people/tatians may be transferred, granted by: [[NY]] 3 374 000 571 Framework grants to municipalities 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 6000000 from NOK 21 556 000 to NOK 15 556 000 60 Intrinsic subsidies are increased by: 309,864 000 from NOK 121 544 312 000 to NOK 121 854 176 000 65 Regional centre grants are reduced by: 100000 000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 0 572 Framework grant to county municipalities 60 Intrinsic subsidies are increased by: 590 500000 from NOK 32 150 448 000 to NOK 32 740 948 000 573 Municipal reform 60 Disadvantages and reform aid in the event of a combination of municipalities, estimates, are increased by: 244 275 000 from NOK 1058 325000 to NOK 1 302 600 000 61 Disposal costs of aggregation, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 75,000,000 from NOK 240000000 to NOK 165000000 580 Dwelling aid 70 Housing aid, estimates, is reduced by: 20 800000 from NOK 2875 300000 to NOK 2 854 500000 585 Lease vis-à-vis the Committee Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 230 000 from NOK 28 345000 to NOK 28 575000 587 Directorate for Building Quality Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 220 000 from NOK 99 985000 to NOK 100 205000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Knowledge development and information dissemination are increased by: 350000 from NOK 44 430000 to NOK 47 930000 590 Planning and urban development 72 Subsidies for housing, urban and territorial development may be transferred, increased by: 6000000 from NOK 34 171000 to NOK 40 171000 595 State Charts, object lighting and national geographical infrastructure 21 Special operating costs, may be transferred, may be used under Chapter. 595 items 1 and 45, increased by: 55 263 000 from NOK 311 597 000 to NOK 366 860000 600 Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 226 863000 to NOK 224 863000 601 Exploration, research and related activities 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 370,000 from NOK 57 395 000 to NOK 57 025 000 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 4,630,000 from NOK 36 120000 to NOK 31 490000 605 The seat of employment and welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 137 700 000 from NOK 11 435 967 000 to NOK 11 573 667 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Research and investigation activities are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 48 704 000 to NOK 46 704 000 611 Pensions of state funds Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 2,200,000 from NOK 20 200000 to NOK 18000000 612 Grants to State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 120 832,000 from NOK 5 418 168 000 to NOK 5 539 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Final settlement, allocation of estimates, shall be reduced by: 33,000,000 from NOK 6000000 to NOK -27000000 70 For other members of the State pension fund, the estimate is increased by: 2000000 from NOK 134000000 to NOK 136000000 613 Employer’s fee for social security Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 268 200000 from NOK 289 200000 to NOK 21000000 614 Housing loan scheme of the State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 34000000 to NOK 30000000 90 Loans, estimates, are reduced by: 1 100,000,000 from NOK 45000000 to NOK 340000000000 615 Insurance against professional injury Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 11,000,000 from NOK 96000000 to NOK 85000000 616 Group life insurance services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 194000000 to NOK 192000000 621 Subsidies for social services and social inclusion 63 Social services and measures for the disadvantaged may be transferred, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 155 760000 to NOK 160 760000 634 Labour market measures 76 Measures for job seekers may be transferred, reduced by: 68,024,000 from NOK 7 720 609 000 to NOK 7 652 585 000 635 Wages and salaries Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 30000000 to NOK 33000000 640 Labour Inspectorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 615 260 000 to NOK 625 260 000 642 Petroleum control Add User-ID Succeeded Operating expenditure, may be used under item 21, increased by: 2,900,000 from NOK 260 369 000 to NOK 263 269 000 646 Pioneer Divers in the North Sea 71 Upload, may be transferred, granted by [[NY]] 700000 648 Labour law, Riksmökleren etc. 70 Contributions to professional development shall be reduced by: 900000 from NOK 4000000 to NOK 310000 660 War Pension 70 Grants, military, allocation of estimates, are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 86000000 to NOK 84000000 71 Grants, civil, estimates, are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 215000000 to NOK 210000000 664 Seafarer pension scheme 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 28,000,000 from NOK 83000000 to NOK 55000000 666 Retirement contract [[AFP]] Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 1930000000 to NOK 1910000000 667 Supplementary social benefits for persons over 67 years of age 70 Grants, estimates, are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 325000000 to NOK 330000000 701 Directorate for eHealth Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 209 213 000 to NOK 205 213 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 17,000,000 from NOK 354 128 000 to NOK 337 128 000 703 International cooperation 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 8 043 000 to NOK 13 043 000 710 Public health institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 30 400000 from NOK 784 626 000 to NOK 754 226 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 790 335000 to NOK 780 335000 714 Public health 21 Special operating costs, may be carried over, may be used under items 70, 74 and 79, increased by: 7,920,000 from NOK 151 003 000 to NOK 158 923 000 60 Municipal actions, may be transferred, can be used under item 21, reduced by: 1500000 from NOK 78 969 000 to NOK 77 469 000 79 Other grants, may be carried over, may be used under item 21, reduced by: 2860 000 from NOK 66 449 000 to NOK 63 589 000 720 Directorate for Health Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 128 128 000 from NOK 1 262,841,000 to NOK 1 134,713,000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 15 842,000 from NOK 32 598 000 to NOK 16 756 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 4,211,000 from NOK 4211000 to NOK 0 60 Guest builder’s establishment for permanent residents, awarded with: [[NY]] 80,000,000 721 National Health Supervisors Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 720000 from NOK 129 342 000 to NOK 136 542 000 723 National health complaint body Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3,800,000 from DKK 124 441000 to NOK 128 241000 732 Regional health establishments 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 3,800,000 from NOK 19 686 000 to NOK 15 886 000 70 Specific grants, may be carried over, may be used under headings 72, 73, 74 and 75, increased by: 57 300000 from NOK 1786 241,000 to NOK 1 843 541000 72 Basic appropriations Health south-east RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 269 100000 from NOK 50,034,672 000 to NOK 49,765,572 000 73 Basic appropriations Health West RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 95,000,000 from NOK 17 659 836 000 to NOK 17 564 836 000 74 Basic appropriations Health Middle Norway RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 71 700 000 from NOK 13 328 177 000 to NOK 13 256 477 000 75 Basic appropriations Health North RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 64 200000 from NOK 11 942 678 000 to NOK 11 878 478 000 77 Outpatient services, etc. , estimates are increased by: 128,000,000 from NOK 3251 892,000 to NOK 3379 892 000 82 Investment loans, may be transferred, increased by: 70000000 from NOK 1566 883 000 to NOK 1636 883 000 747 State Radiation Protection 1 Operating costs, granted by: [[NY]] 92 128 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, granted by: [[NY]] 17 342,000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, granted by: [[NY]] 4,211,000 750 National Agency for Medicinal Products Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 18 290 000 from NOK 287 554 000 to NOK 269 264 000 761 Nursing services 60 Community competence measures may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 129 289 000 to NOK 139 289 000 62 Daily activity offers, can be transferred, reduced by: 25,000,000 from NOK 262,652 000 to NOK 237,652 000 63 Investment grants may be transferred, increased by: 107 600 000 from NOK 3298 100000 to NOK 3405 700000 65 Trials of state funding of care services, estimates, are reduced by: 564,000 from NOK 124 906 000 to NOK 1219 242 000 67 Development measures shall be increased by: 17,000,000 from NOK 68 908000 to NOK 85 908000 68 Competence and innovation are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 365 874 000 to NOK 367,874 000 762 Primary Health Service 21 Special operating costs may be used under heading 70, reduced by: 100000 from NOK 70 290000 to NOK 70 190 000 63 General medical services are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 89 349 000 to NOK 94 349 000 73 Sexual health, may be transmitted, reduced by: 2 100000 from NOK 55 628 000 to NOK 53 528 000 765 Psychiatric and drug services 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 72, reduced by: 380 000 from NOK 129,710000 to NOK 129,330000 72 Voluntary work, etc. , may be transferred, may be used under item 21, increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 366,925000 to NOK 370,925000 73 Development measures, etc. , is reduced by: 950000 from NOK 142 251000 to NOK 132 751000 75 Violence and traumatic stress, can be transmitted, increased by: 6,180 000 from NOK 173,031000 to NOK 179,211000 769 Exploration, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be used under heading 70, increased by: 7000000 from NOK 14 548 000 to NOK 21 548 000 770 Dental practice services 21 Special operating costs may be used under heading 70, reduced by: 1,300,000 from NOK 30 251000 to NOK 28 951000 780 Research 50 Norwegian Research Council, etc. , increased by: 16,000,000 from NOK 332 207 000 to NOK 348 207 000 800 Ministry of Children and Gender Equality Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2,200,000 from NOK 152 080 000 to NOK 149 880 000 840 Action against violence and abuse 21 Special operating costs may be used under heading 70, increased by: 400000 from NOK 19 715 000 to NOK 20 115000 70 Grants for violence prevention, etc. , may be used under heading 21 and Chapter. 858 entry 1 is increased by: 1000000 from NOK 64 348 000 to NOK 65 348 000 844 Cash support 70 Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 100000 000 from NOK 1709 500000 to NOK 1609 500000 845 Child-rescue 70 Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 50,000,000 from NOK 15 180 000 to NOK 15 130 000 846 Family and growth measures 21 Special operating costs may be used under item 50 and item 71, increased by: 325000 from NOK 13 318 000 to NOK 13 643 000 60 Children’s and youth action in larger urban communities may be transferred, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 29 789 000 to NOK 31 789 000 61 National grant scheme against child poverty, can be used under item 71, increased by: 26,000,000 from NOK 193 412000 to NOK 219 412000 62 Developments in municipalities are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 79 647,000 to NOK 82 647 000 79 Grants for international youth cooperation, etc. , may be transmitted, reduced by: 400000 from NOK 8,656 000 to NOK 8,256 000 847 EU Youth Programme Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 1,245,000 from NOK 8 188 000 to NOK 9 433 000 848 The Children’s Ombudsman Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 570000 from NOK 15 554 000 to NOK 21 254 000 853 Children's protection and social affairs students Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 216 969 000 to NOK 214 969 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 3,700,000 from NOK 7 639 000 to NOK 11 339 000 854 Measures in the field of child protection 21 Special operating costs may be used under item 71, increased by: 1,300,000 from NOK 68 176 000 to NOK 69 476 000 65 Reimbursement of municipal expenditure on child protection measures relating to lone minor asylum seekers and refugees, estimates, is increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 470000 to NOK 520000 71 Development and information, etc. , may be used under item 21, reduced by: 1 700 000 from NOK 33 155 000 to NOK 31 455000 856 Childcare centre for lone minor asylum seekers Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 359 200000 from NOK 843 825000 to NOK 484 625000 858 Directorate for Children, Youth and Family 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 325000 from NOK 14 283 000 to NOK 13 958 000 865 Consumer policy measures 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 50, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 249 000 to NOK 1 149 000 867 Secretariat of the Market Council and Consumer Dispute Committee Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 11 466 000 to NOK 12 466 000 871 Equality and non-discrimination 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under heading 70, increased by: 5,310,000 from NOK 9 601,000 to NOK 14 911000 900 Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 700000 from NOK 430 248 000 to NOK 429 548 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 1 440,000 from NOK 87 601000 to NOK 89 041000 71 Environmental action Raufoss is increased by: 5,800,000 from NOK 320000 to NOK 9000000 75 Grants to specific projects may be transferred, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 12 900 000 to NOK 11 900 000 77 Grants to maritime food measures may be transferred, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 8 750 000 to NOK 10 750 000 79 Subsidies to the Mechatronics Innovation Lab, increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 30000000 to NOK 60000000 902 Adjusters Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 122 788 000 to NOK 123 788 000 905 Geological survey of Norway Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 13,000,000 from NOK 171 253 000 to NOK 184 253 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 4500000 from NOK 72 387 000 to NOK 76 887 000 909 Measures for employment of seafarers 73 Allowances for employment of seafarers, estimates, are increased by: 27,000,000 from NOK 2 10000000 to NOK 2 127000000 915 Council of Rules Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 60000 from NOK 8 569 000 to NOK 8 629 000 917 Directorate for Fisheries This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Fisheries research and monitoring may be transmitted, reduced by: 5,200,000 from NOK 67 800000 to NOK 62 600 000 919 Miscellaneous fishing purposes 76 Grants for fisheries research may be transferred, reduced by: 1 700 000 from NOK 22 100000 to NOK 20 400000 922 Space activities 73 EU space programmes are reduced by: 43,000,000 from NOK 280 200000 to NOK 237 200000 74 National infrastructure and technical activities may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 40 300000 to NOK 50 300000 924 International cooperation and development programmes 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 20 300000 from NOK 48 616 000 to NOK 28 316 000 925 Marine Research Institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 15 250000 from NOK 494 862,000 to NOK 479 612000 926 Research vessel Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 15 250000 from NOK 160 878 000 to NOK 176 128 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 55,000,000 from NOK 1047 100000 to NOK 992 100000 927 NIFES This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Fisheries research and monitoring may be transferred, increased by: 690000 from NOK 690000 to NOK 13 800000 940 Internationalisation measures 73 Aid in the case of exports of capital goods shall be granted by: [[NY]] 111 600 000 950 Management of state ownership 54 Loss provision, investment capital Investmentor AS, is reduced by: 35,000,000 from NOK 35000000 to NOK 0 95 Equity deposits to Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkkompani AS, are increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 144000000 to NOK 159000000 96 Shares are reduced by: 90 000 000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 10000000 1100 Ministry of Agriculture and Food 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 1542 000 to NOK 16 542 000 45 Major equipment acquisitions and maintenance – ordinary administrative bodies, may be transferred, can be used under heading 50, increased by: 637 000 from NOK 2693 000 to NOK 330000 1112 Knowledge development and preparedness, etc. in the food field 50 Knowledge development, knowledge dissemination and preparedness, the Veterinary Institute, shall be increased by: 10000000 from NOK 95 661000 to NOK 105 661000 1115 Food Authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 1347 945000 to NOK 1348 945000 1136 Knowledge development, etc. 50 Knowledge development, dissemination and preparedness, the Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy, is increased by: 28 200000 from NOK 227 979 000 to NOK 256 179 000 1149 Value creation and development measures in forestry 72 Wood-based innovation programme, funded by: [[NY]] 25,000,000 1150 For the implementation of the agricultural agreement, etc. 50 Grants to the Agricultural Development Fund shall be increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 1 148 053 000 to NOK 1 163 053 000 1300 Ministry of Transport Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1,680,000 from NOK 187 379 000 to NOK 185 699 000 21 Special operating expenditure — studies, modernisation of the transport sector, reduced by: 2,200,000 from NOK 12 727 000 to NOK 10 527 000 71 Aid for road safety purposes, etc. , increased by: 1500000 from NOK 60 900 000 to NOK 62 400000 74 Grants to the Rescue Company shall be increased by: 10000000 from NOK 83 500000 to NOK 93 500000 1320 State Road Service 30 Road transport investments may be carried over, may be used under item 23, item 29, item 31 and item 72 are increased by: 92 600 000 from NOK 14 321 800000 to NOK 14 414 400000 31 Stitch protection, may be transmitted, may be used under item 30, increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 609000000 to NOK 659000000 62 Stairway protection, may be transmitted, increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 743 800000 to NOK 843 800000 1321 New Roads AS 71 Net expenditure — transfers of assets and liabilities from the State’s road network, granted by: [[NY]] 6,632,000 1352 Railway Directorate 73 Purchases of infrastructure services – investments, transferable, can be used under items 71, 72 and 74, increased by: 40,000,000 from NOK 2 467 300000 to NOK 2 507 300000 1360 Coastal works Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 45, increased by: 10,700,000 from NOK 1 706 272,000 to NOK 1 716 972 000 30 New installations and major maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 18,000,000 from NOK 408 800000 to NOK 426 800000 1370 Postal services 70 Purchases of postal and banking services are increased by: 1500000 from NOK 272,200000 to NOK 273,700000 1380 National communication authority 70 Contributions to telecommunications security and preparedness may be transferred, increased by: 76 500000 from NOK 80 200000 to NOK 156 700000 71 Contributions to broadband deployment may be transferred, increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 138 700000 to NOK 238 700000 1400 Ministry of Climate and Environment Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 475000 from NOK 279 621 000 to NOK 279 146 000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 12 130 000 from NOK 49 246 000 to NOK 61 376 000 76 Support for national and international environmental measures may be transferred, reduced by: 18,000,000 from NOK 61 098 000 to NOK 43 098 000 1420 Directorate for the Environment Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 814 000 from NOK 667 766 000 to NOK 668 580000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 17 700 000 from NOK 225,072 000 to NOK 242,772 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. State action on the aquatic environment is reduced by: 5,400,000 from NOK 297 552,000 to NOK 292 152 000 37 Forest planting, may be transmitted, reduced by: 14 375 000 from NOK 14 375000 to NOK 0 38 Restoration of ants, may be transferred, reduced by: 950000 from NOK 23 625000 to NOK 14 125 000 61 Contributions to climate action and adaptation may be transferred, reduced by: 155 820,000 from NOK 156 920000 to NOK 1 100000 63 Return arrangements for end-of-life recreational craft, granted by: [[NY]] 20,000,000 69 Cleaning measures, may be carried over, can be used under items 39 and 79, reduced by: 62000000 from NOK 271,562 000 to NOK 209 562 000 70 Subsidies for aquatic environmental measures may be transferred, increased by: 19,000,000 from NOK 54 755000 to NOK 73 755000 71 Marine litter, may be transferred, increased by: 25,000,000 from NOK 35 290000 to NOK 60 290000 73 Grants to predatory game measures may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 70,051 000 to NOK 80,051 000 75 Payment of a mortgage for car wrecks, allocation of an estimate, is reduced by: 50,000,000 from NOK 731 760000 to NOK 681 760000 76 Reimbursement schemes, estimates, are increased by: 15 637 000 from NOK 76 042 000 to NOK 91 679 000 77 Various organisations and foundations n.e.c. , increased by: 1000000 from NOK 14 416 000 to NOK 15 416 000 78 Outdoor purposes, may be transmitted, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 181,821,000 to NOK 186,821000 79 Cleaning measures, may be carried over, may be used under items 39 and 69, increased by: 500000 from NOK 450000 to NOK 950000 81 World heritage, cultural landscapes and natural heritage creation may be transferred, used under item 21, increased by: 7000000 from NOK 48 261000 to NOK 55 261000 82 Subsidies to endangered species and habitat types may be transferred, may be used under item 21, reduced by: 51 200000 from NOK 74 989 000 to NOK 23 789 000 85 Natural information centres may be transferred, increased by: 1 600 000 from NOK 55 714 000 to NOK 57 314 000 1429 Riksantikvaren 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 4,935000 from NOK 51 243 000 to NOK 46 308 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Conservation tasks may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 24 304 000 to NOK 34 304 000 60 Cultural memory work in municipalities is increased by: 5000000 from NOK 416,000 to NOK 9 116000 70 Grants to automatically preserved and other archaeological cultural memories may be transferred, increased by: 21,000,000 from NOK 33 564 000 to NOK 54 564 000 73 Subsidies for medieval and fire protection buildings and installations may be increased by: 2000000 from NOK 45 952 000 to NOK 47 952 000 1471 Norwegian Polar Institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 7 681,000 from NOK 228 070 000 to NOK 220 389 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 187 000 from NOK 70 707 000 to NOK 70 520000 1473 Kings Bay AS 70 Grants shall be increased by: 12,000,000 from NOK 41,573 000 to NOK 53,573 000 1474 Fram – North Region Centre for Climate and Environmental Research 70 Grants to private recipients may be transferred, may be used under heading 50, increased by: 6,380,000 from NOK 28000000 to NOK 34 380 000 1481 Climate allowances This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Purchases of allowances, general scheme, may be transferred, reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 195 300000 to NOK 175 300000 1482 International climate and development measures Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 52,000 from NOK 97 429 000 to NOK 97 377 000 1600 Ministry of Finance Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 367 203 000 to NOK 364 203 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 11 500000 from NOK 58 618 000 to NOK 47 118 000 1605 Directorate for Financial Management Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 72 659,000 from NOK 378 130 000 to NOK 450 789 000 1608 Measures to strengthen State economic and project management 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 15 953 000 to NOK 17 953 000 1610 Customs duties Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 950000 from NOK 1476 431000 to NOK 1485 931000 1618 Tax receipts Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 11 900 000 from NOK 5 662 708 000 to NOK 5 674 608 000 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 190 300000 to NOK 175 300000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Major IT projects may be transferred, reduced by: 115 200000 from NOK 358,700000 to NOK 243,500000 23 Special operating costs, a scheme, are increased by: 3,300,000 from NOK 84,751,000 to NOK 88,051 000 1620 Statistical Central Bureau Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 16 900 000 from NOK 562 986 000 to NOK 579 886 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 36 900 000 from NOK 242 453 000 to NOK 205 553 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 44 300000 to NOK 64 300000 1632 Compensation for VAT 61 Grants to municipalities and county councils, estimates, are increased by: 1,000,000 from NOK 21 200000000 to NOK 22 200000000 72 Grants to private and non-profit institutions serving households, estimates, are increased by: 90 000 000 from NOK 1980000000 to NOK 2 070000000 1633 Net scheme, State-paid VAT Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 400,000 from NOK 5 683 531000 to NOK 6 083 531000 1651 Central government debt, repayments and redemptions 98 Deductions on domestic debt, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 12 248,000,000 from NOK 63 207 000 to NOK 50 959 000 1670 Provisions for the Nordic Investment Bank 90 Paid-up own funds are reduced by: 5 170 000 from NOK 119 800000 to NOK 114 630000 1700 Ministry of Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 14 607,000 from NOK 772,976 000 to NOK 787,583 000 43 At the disposal of the Ministry of Defence, may be transferred, reduced by: 310000 from NOK 15 610000 to NOK 12 510000 71 Transfers to others may be transferred, reduced by: 2,941,000 from NOK 60 825000 to NOK 57 884000 1710 Defence and new buildings and new installations Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be carried over, reduced by: 10,124,000 from NOK 3641 748 000 to NOK 3631 624 000 45 Major acquisitions and maintenance of equipment may be carried over, may be used under cover. 1760, entry 45, increased by 13,000,000 from NOK 277,515000 to NOK 290,515000 1720 Joint management and command apparatus Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 13 561,000 from NOK 5 306 251,000 to NOK 5 292 690000 70 Interest on loans reduced by: 4,517,000 from NOK 4517000 to NOK 0 1723 National safety authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1,458,000 from NOK 258,716,000 to NOK 257,258 000 1725 Joint institutions and expenditure under the Defence Staff Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 114 638 000 from NOK 825 403 000 to NOK 710 765 000 1731 Army Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 78 846 000 from NOK 5 460 228 000 to NOK 5 539 074 000 1732 Sea defence services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 15 565 000 from NOK 4 236 223 000 to NOK 4 251 788 000 1733 Air Force Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 34 034 000 from NOK 4 774 506 000 to NOK 4 808 540 000 1734 Home Security Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 163 170 000 from NOK 1378 353 000 to NOK 1541 523 000 1735 Intelligence 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 20 100000 from NOK 1714 268 000 to NOK 1734 368 000 1740 Defence Logistics Organisation Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 97 652,000 from NOK 1797 022 000 to NOK 1894 674 000 1760 Defence and major acquisitions and maintenance Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 1760, entry 45, increased by 188 073 000 from NOK 1502 392 000 to NOK 1690 465 000 45 Major acquisitions and maintenance of equipment may be carried over, may be used under cover. 1761 heading 45, increased by: 265 009 000 from NOK 4 907 916 000 to NOK 5 172 925000 48 Jointly financed investments, jointly financed, may be transferred, reduced by: 10 136 000 from NOK 71 500000 to NOK 61 364000 1761 New base-solution fighter aircraft Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 1761 entry 45, reduced by 8 151,000 from NOK 194 686 000 to NOK 186 535 000 1790 Coast Guard Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 118 901,000 from NOK 1094 428,000 to NOK 975 527 000 1791 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 68 734 000 from NOK 925 343 000 to NOK 994 077 000 1792 Norwegian forces abroad Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 213 899 000 from NOK 823 497 000 to NOK 1037 396 000 1795 Cultural and non-profit-making purposes Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 4,620,000 from NOK 252 602,000 to NOK 257 222 000 1800 Ministry of Oil and Energy Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 187 754 000 to NOK 186 754 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 72, reduced by: 500000 from NOK 26 927 000 to NOK 26 427 000 72 Grants for oil and energy purposes, may be transferred, may be used under heading 21, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 5000000 to NOK 7000000 1810 Oil Directorate 23 Mission and cooperation activities may be transferred, reduced by: 8,000,000 from NOK 125000000 to NOK 117000000 1815 Petoro AS 70 Administration is reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 342,685000 to NOK 337,685000 72 Administration, Petoro Iceland AS, is reduced by: 500000 from NOK 1500000 to NOK 1000000 73 State participation in petroleum activities on Icelandic continental shelf may be transferred, reduced by: 500000 from NOK 7 100000 to NOK 6 600 000 1820 Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorate This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Flow and cutting prevention, may be transmitted, can be used under items 45, 60 and 72, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 272,892 000 to NOK 292,892 000 60 Grants for flood and step-by-step prevention may be carried over, may be used under headings 22 and 72, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 70000000 to NOK 75000000 1825 Energy conversion, energy and climate technologies 95 Capital deposits are reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 15000000 to NOK 0 96 Shares are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 0 1830 Research and industrial development 70 International cooperation and development measures may be transferred, reduced by: 14,000,000 from NOK 31 300000 to NOK 17 300000 1840 CO2 management 96 Shares, by [[NY]] 2000000 2309 Random expense Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 438 092,000 from NOK 4 181 873 000 to NOK 3743 781 000 2410 State Loan Fund for Education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 45, increased by: 6410000 from NOK 377 168 000 to NOK 383 578 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, may be used under item 1, reduced by: 560000 from NOK 560000 to NOK 0 50 Appropriations for training grants, estimated appropriations, shall be reduced by: 893,000 from NOK 6 583 093 000 to NOK 6 582 200000 70 Training grants, estimates, are increased by: 92 731,000 from NOK 2725 294000 to NOK 2818 025 000 71 Other scholarships, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 55 194,000 from NOK 830 404 000 to NOK 775 21000000 72 Interest subsidies, estimates, are increased by: 45,376,000 from NOK 906 162,000 to NOK 951 538 000 73 Depreciation, estimate allocation, is reduced by: 24 506,000 from NOK 614 766 000 to NOK 590 260 000 74 Losses on loans increased by: 12 450 000 from NOK 368 100000 to NOK 380 550000 90 Increases in loans and interest payable, estimates are reduced by: 227 459,000 from NOK 26 072 450000 to NOK 25 844 991000 2421 Innovation Norway 51 Seed funds ICT industries, loss reserves, are increased by: 9,200,000 from NOK 37 200000 to NOK 46 400000 53 Seed funds ICT industries, risk-absorbing, are reduced by: 18 800000 from NOK 18 800000 to NOK 0 70 Basic costs, increased by: 2500000 from NOK 166 489 000 to NOK 168 989 000 95 Seed funds ICT industries, equity, increased by 26,000,000 from NOK 106 300000 to NOK 132 300000 2429 Export Credit Norway AS 70 Grants shall be increased by: 2000000 from NOK 107 698 000 to NOK 109 698 000 2440 Direct economic involvement of the country in the petroleum industry 30 Investments are increased by: 1 500,000,000 from NOK 25 50000000 to NOK 27000000 2445 State-owned buildings 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue -4 726 960000 2 Operating expenditure 2 058 770000 3 Depreciation 1 311 514 000 4 Interest on the capital of the country 86 000 000 5 For investment purposes 1 129 976 000 Syd -140 700000 30 Building design, may be transferred, increased by: 68,000,000 from NOK 138 001000 to NOK 206 001000 31 The start of ordinary construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 115000000 to NOK 125000000 33 The continuation of ordinary construction projects may be transferred, reduced by: 580,000 from NOK 256 254 000 to NOK 1676 254 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 183 828 000 to NOK 283 828 000 2460 Export Credit Guarantee Institute 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue -180000000 2 Operating expenditure 180 000 000, forecasting appropriations Syd 0 2470 General government pension fund 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue -649 569 000, statement of estimates 2 Operating expenditure 461 105 000, statement of estimates 3 Depreciation 121 354 000 4 Interest on national capital 2 884 000 5 For investment purposes 38 070 000 6 For regulatory fund 4 020 000 Syd -22 136 000 2530 Parental carcass 70 Birth culls, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 160,000,000 from NOK 19 810 000 to NOK 19 650 000 71 One-off maternity and adoption benefits, estimates are increased by: 18,000,000 from NOK 612000000 to NOK 630000 72 Parental leave allowance, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 495000000 to NOK 485000000 73 In the event of adoption, the estimates are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 54000000 to NOK 57000000 2541 Day money 70 Appropriations for the day shall be reduced by: 1,850,000 from NOK 16 300000 to NOK 14 450000000 2542 State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, etc. 70 State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, etc. , estimates are reduced by: 160,000,000 from NOK 975000000 to NOK 815000 2620 Social benefits to a lonely mother or father 70 Transitional assistance, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 400,000 from NOK 2510000000 to NOK 2110000000 72 Support for child care, the allocation of estimates, is reduced by: 60,000,000 from NOK 295000000 to NOK 235000000 73 Education assistance is reduced by: 17,000,000 from NOK 42000000 to NOK 25000000 75 Grants for moving to work are increased by: 200000 from NOK 200000 to NOK 400000 76 Advances in contributions shall be increased by: 35,000,000 from NOK 715000000 to NOK 750000000 2650 Sykepenger 70 Sickness allowance for employees, etc. , estimates are reduced by: 660,000 from NOK 36 630000000 to NOK 35 970000000 71 Sickness benefits for self-employed persons, estimated appropriations, are increased by: 6000000 from NOK 1 400000000 to NOK 1 406000000 72 Nursing, training, n.e.c. , estimates are reduced by: 30,000,000 from NOK 75000000 to NOK 720000000 75 Health care holiday pay, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 30,000,000 from NOK 2040000000 to NOK 2 010000000 2651 Clearance of duties 70 Clearance of work, allocation of estimates, is reduced by: 220000000 from NOK 34 510000000 to NOK 34 290000000 71 Supplementary aid, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 295000000 to NOK 285000000 72 Medical statements shall be reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 415000000 to NOK 40000000 2655 Disability 70 Misappropriation, allocation of estimates, shall be reduced by: 1 212,000,000 from NOK 83 812000000 to NOK 82 600000000 75 Men's compensation in the event of occupational injury, estimated appropriations, shall be reduced by: 25,000,000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 75000000 76 Occupational injury prevention gml. legislation, the allocation of estimates shall be increased by: 2000000 from NOK 43000000 to NOK 45000000 2661 Basic and auxiliary aid, aids, etc. 70 Basic aid, estimates, is increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 1867000000 to NOK 1870000000 71 Auxiliary services, estimate appropriations, are reduced by 2000000 from NOK 1632000000 to NOK 1630000000 73 Utilities, etc. in the course of work and training, shall be reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 133000000 to NOK 132000000 74 Supplements to cars are increased by: 55 500000 from NOK 709 500000 to NOK 765000 75 Improvements in functionality, assistive devices, are increased by: 91 300000 from NOK 2918 700000 to NOK 3 010000000 76 Improvement of functionality, assistive devices such as services, is reduced by: 16 200000 from NOK 271200000 to NOK 255000000 77 Orthopaedic aids shall be increased by: 105 000 000 from NOK 1305000000 to NOK 1410000000 78 Hearing aids, reduced by: 55,000,000 from NOK 700000 to NOK 6450000000 2670 Age 70 Basic pension, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 1 010,000,000 from NOK 71 690 000 to NOK 70 680 000 71 Supplementary pension, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 1,790,000 from NOK 136,720000000 to NOK 134,930,000 72 Pensions on income, estimates, are increased by: 21,000,000 from NOK 615000000 to NOK 636000000 73 Special supplements, pension supplements etc. , estimates are reduced by: 75,000,000 from NOK 5940000000 to NOK 5865000000 2680 Survivors 70 Basic pension, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 1140000000 to NOK 1130000000 71 Supplementary pension, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 860000 to NOK 850000000 72 Special supplement, estimate allocation, is reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 88000000 to NOK 84000000 74 Education assistance is reduced by: 100000 from NOK 400000 to NOK 300000 75 Support for child care, the allocation of estimates, is reduced by: 830 000 from NOK 5830000 to NOK 5000000 2686 gravitational assistance 70 gravitational allowances, estimate appropriations, are increased by: 9 600 000 from NOK 181,400000 to NOK 191000000 2711 Specialist health services, etc. 70 Specialist assistance, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 1920000000 to NOK 1925000000 71 Psychological assistance is increased by: 6000000 from NOK 287000000 to NOK 293000000 72 Dental treatment, reduced by: 80 500000 from NOK 2 507 000 to NOK 2 426 500000 76 Private laboratories and X-ray institutes shall be increased by: 38 800000 from NOK 891200000 to NOK 930000 2751 Medicinal products n.e.c. 70 Medicinal products, increased by 370 100000 from NOK 10 139 900000 to NOK 10 510000000 72 Medical consumables are reduced by: 63 500000 from NOK 203 500000 to NOK 1940000000 2752 Reimbursement of self-payment 70 Self-proprietary cap 1, reduced by: 40,000,000 from NOK 5000000 to NOK 4 960000000 71 Self-proprietary cap 2, reduced by: 62 600 000 from NOK 1067 600 000 to NOK 1005 000 2755 Health services in municipalities etc. 62 Remuneration scheme physiotherapists, may be used under heading 71, reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 370000000 to NOK 368000000 70 General medical care is reduced by: 40,000,000 from NOK 4845000000 to NOK 4805000000 71 Physiotherapy, may be used under heading 62, is increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 1 195000000 to NOK 1225000000 72 midwifery, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 61000000 to NOK 60000000 73 Chiropractor therapy, reduced by 1000000 from NOK 150000000 to NOK 149000000 75 Logopedic and orthopaedic treatments are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 142000000 to NOK 141000000 2756 Other health services 70 Health services in other EEA countries are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 25000000 to NOK 24000000 71 Health services abroad etc. , increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 4450000000 to NOK 460000 72 Health services to non-residents, etc. , is reduced by: 17,000,000 from NOK 210000000 to NOK 193000000 2790 Other health measures 70 Contributions, reduced by 5000000 from NOK 235000000 to NOK 230000000 3225 Basic training measures 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, reduced by: 65 399 000 from NOK 190 160 000 to NOK 124 761 000 3334 Film and media applications 2 Revenue from missions shall be reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 11 937,000 to NOK 8 937,000 3440 Police Directorate - the Police and Len’s Seat 2 Reimbursements, etc. , increased by: 40,000,000 from NOK 339 604000 to NOK 379 604000 5 Staff nursery is reduced by: 3147 000 from NOK 5447 000 to NOK 290000 6 Fee — Foreign affairs, increased by: 5848 000 from NOK 200 377 000 to NOK 206 225 000 3456 Emergency Communications Directorate 2 Reimbursements of operating costs shall be increased by: 761,000 from NOK 40 253 000 to NOK 41 014 000 3 Reimbursements of special operating expenditure - services and products, increased by: 9 926,000 from NOK 63 756 000 to NOK 73 682 000 4 Reimbursements of major equipment acquisitions and maintenance are increased by: 82 737 000 from NOK 445000 to NOK 83 182 000 3490 Directorate for Foreign Affairs 3 Travel expenses for refugees to and from abroad, ODA-approved expenditure, are reduced by: 248 000 from NOK 17 562 000 to NOK 17 314 000 4 Asylum recipients, ODA-approved expenditure, are reduced by: 183 661,000 from NOK 1374 310000 to NOK 1 190 649 000 3496 Residence of refugees and measures for immigrants Add User-ID Succeeded Integration grants for transfer refugees, ODA-approved expenditure, are increased by: 18 399 000 from NOK 251,326 000 to NOK 269,725000 2 Specific grant for the settlement of lone minor refugees, ODA-approved expenditure, is increased by: 415 479 000 from NOK 154 723 000 to NOK 570 202 000 3497 Norwegian and community education for adult immigrants Add User-ID Succeeded Norwegian receipt training, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 29 549 000 from NOK 85 198 000 to NOK 55 649 000 3510 Ministry Security and Service Organisation 2 Miscellaneous income is reduced by: 273,000 from NOK 21 501000 to NOK 21 228 000 3531 Royal property Add User-ID Succeeded Miscellaneous income is reduced by: 40000 from NOK 40000 to NOK 0 3595 State Charts, object lighting and national geographical infrastructure 3 Co-financing shall be reduced by: 6000000 from NOK 270,952 000 to NOK 264,952 000 3614 Housing loan scheme of the State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Fee income, loans, is reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 28000000 to NOK 24000000 90 Repayment of loans shall be reduced by: 3,300,000 from NOK 18 40000000 to NOK 15 10000000 3635 Wages and salaries, etc. 85 The imposition of an error in the payment of expected wages and salaries is increased by: 200000 from NOK 200000 to NOK 400000 3642 Petroleum control 3 Charges for supervision shall be reduced by: 14,000,000 from NOK 80 980000 to NOK 66 980000 3720 Directorate for Health 2 Miscellaneous income is reduced by: 19 241,000 from NOK 37 746 000 to NOK 18 505 000 4 Fee revenue shall be reduced by: 9 467 000 from NOK 44 013 000 to NOK 34 546 000 5 Health services to non-residents, etc. , is reduced by: 195 000 from NOK 64 805000 to NOK 64 610 000 6 Guest builder for fixed doctors, awarded with: [[NY]] 80,000,000 3732 Regional health establishments 86 Operating credits shall be increased by: 80000000 from NOK 5170000000 to NOK 5970000000 3747 State Radiation Protection 2 Miscellaneous revenue, by [[NY]] 19 241,000 4 Fee income, granted by [[NY]] 8,467,000 3750 National Agency for Medicinal Products 4 Registration fee shall be reduced by: 9 520,000 from NOK 121 642,000 to NOK 112 122 000 3847 EU Youth Programme Add User-ID Succeeded Grants from the European Commission shall be increased by: 1,245,000 from NOK 264 000 to NOK 369 000 3856 Childcare centre for lone minor asylum seekers 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, reduced by: 504 800000 from NOK 723 548 000 to NOK 218 748 000 3871 Equality and non-discrimination 1 Miscellaneous revenue, by [[NY]] 5,310,000 3900 Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries 86 periodic penalty payment, by [[NY]] 10000 3904 The Brønn Island Registers Add User-ID Succeeded Fee revenue shall be increased by: 26 500000 from NOK 473 512 000 to NOK 500 012 000 3950 Management of state ownership 87 Deposit guarantee scheme, Export finance ASA, is granted by [[NY]] 30,700,000 4100 Ministry of Agriculture and Food 40 Sale of property, by: [[NY]] 637 000 4400 Ministry of Climate and Environment 50 Recovery of loss funds from the State Environment Fund, granted by: [[NY]] 37 600 000 4420 Directorate for the Environment 7 Fees, allowance system, are reduced by: 3 220 000 from NOK 11 344 000 to NOK 8 124 000 4602 Financial supervision 3 The procedural fee shall be increased by: 500000 from NOK 10 370000 to NOK 10 870000 4605 Directorate for Financial Management Add User-ID Succeeded Economic services are increased by: 23 400000 from NOK 49 600 000 to NOK 73000000 4610 Customs duties 85 Infringement fee shall be increased by: 10000000 from NOK 7000000 to NOK 17000000 4618 Tax receipts 87 Traffic penalties shall be increased by: 5000000 from NOK 70000000 to NOK 75000000 88 Delay fee, Accounting Register, is increased by: 52,000,000 from NOK 248000000 to NOK 300000 89 Infringement fee shall be reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 13000000 to NOK 10000000 4710 Defence and new buildings and new installations 47 Sale of property, increased by: 360 600 000 from NOK 269 425000 to NOK 630 025 000 4720 Joint management and command apparatus Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 13382,000 from NOK 107 247 000 to NOK 120 629 000 4725 Joint institutions and receipts under the Defence Staff Add User-ID Succeeded Revenues are reduced by: 6,605,000 from NOK 24,622 000 to NOK 18,017 000 4731 Army Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 63 993 000 to NOK 93 993 000 4760 Defence and major acquisitions and maintenance Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 57,593,000 from NOK 29 750 000 to NOK 87 343 000 45 Large new acquisitions, granted by [[NY]] 98 156 000 4791 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 69 083,000 from NOK 838 289 000 to NOK 907 372 000 4810 Oil Directorate 2 Mission and cooperation revenue shall be reduced by: 8,000,000 from NOK 124,625000 to NOK 116,625000 5309 Random income 29 Miscellaneous, incremented by 200000000 from NOK 150000000 to NOK 350000000 5310 State Loan Fund for Education 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, increased by: 230000 from NOK 22 350000 to NOK 24 700000 29 Appointment fee shall be reduced by: 5,572,000 from NOK 23 811000 to NOK 18 239 000 89 Pure fees shall be reduced by: 2,292,000 from NOK 105,417 000 to NOK 103,125 000 90 Reduced loans and interest payable are reduced by: 395 291,000 from NOK 10 051 888 000 to NOK 9 656 597 000 93 Conversion of training loans into scholarships is reduced by: 90 880,000 from NOK 6 335 577 000 to NOK 6 244 697 000 5325 Innovation Norway 50 Return from a nationwide innovation scheme is increased by: 26 200000 from NOK 32 500000 to NOK 58 700000 51 Recovery of funds for loss and risk relief, seed funds, by: [[NY]] 67 125 000 91 Returned capital, seed funds, is increased by: 148 900 000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 158 900 000 5351 Transfer from Norway’s Bank 85 Transfer, increased by 26,000,000 from NOK 17 700000000 to NOK 17 726000000 5440 Direct economic involvement of the country in the petroleum industry 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue 139 800000000 2 Operating expenditure -26 800000000 3 Expenses of exploration and field development -1 500000000 4 Depreciation -23 500 000 000 5 Interest on the capital of the country -3700 000 000 Syd 84 300000000 30 Depreciation reduced by: 1 900 000 000 from NOK 25 40000000 to NOK 23 50000000 5445 State-owned buildings 39 Provisions for investment purposes are increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 1029 976 000 to NOK 129 976 000 5491 Depreciation of the capital of the State in the course of its business operations 30 Depreciation is increased by: 83 480 000 from NOK 1353 888 000 to NOK 1437 368 000 5501 Taxes on wealth and income 70 Excise duty, taxes on wealth, etc. , is reduced by: 21,000,000 from NOK 54 040000000 to NOK 54 019000000 72 Community taxes are reduced by: 112 000 000 from NOK 184,027000000 to NOK 183,915000000 5521 Value added tax 70 VAT is increased by: 772,000,000 from NOK 270 30000000 to NOK 271 072000000 5571 Sectoral taxes under the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs 70 Petroleum control – sector fee, increased by: 14,000,000 from NOK 85 040000 to NOK 99 040000 5572 Sectoral taxes under the Ministry of Health and Welfare 74 Supervisory fee, reduced by: 3770 000 from NOK 3770 000 to NOK 0 5577 Sectoral charges under the Ministry of Transport 74 Sectoral charges Coastal works are reduced by: 6 100000 from NOK 789 800000 to NOK 783 700000 5607 Interest of the housing loan scheme in the State pension fund 80 Interest is reduced by: 33,000,000 from NOK 1075000000 to NOK 1042000000 5617 Interest of the State Loan Fund for Education 80 Interest is reduced by: 33,856,000 from NOK 3729 047 000 to NOK 3695 191 000 5618 Shares in Posten Norge AS 85 Dividends are reduced by: 120,000,000 from NOK 120000000 to NOK 0 5625 Interest and dividends from Innovation Norway 80 Interest on loans from government funds shall be increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 90000000 to NOK 140000000 81 The interest margin, the innovation loan scheme, is reduced by: 4,400,000 from NOK 30000000 to NOK 25 600 000 85 Dividends, the Low Risk Loan Facility, are increased by: 52 600 000 from NOK 105000000 to NOK 157 600 000 86 Dividends from investment funds for North-West Russia and Eastern Europe are reduced by: 500000 from NOK 500000 to NOK 0 5631 Shares in AS Vinmonopolet 85 The State’s surplus share is increased by: 42 800000 from NOK 32000000 to NOK 74 800000 5652 Landskog SF - interest and dividends 80 Interest is increased by: 740000 from NOK 2060000 to NOK 2180000 85 Dividends are increased by: 37 400000 from NOK 16000000 to NOK 53 400000 5656 Shares in companies under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries 85 Dividends are increased by: 2,288 800,000 from NOK 13 412 300000 to NOK 15 701 100000 5680 Statnett SF 85 Dividends are reduced by: 16,000,000 from NOK 366000000 to NOK 350000000 5700 Revenue of the public sector 71 Social security contributions are reduced by: 13,000,000 from NOK 139 524000000 to NOK 139 511000000 5701 Miscellaneous income 71 Reimbursement in the event of occupational injury shall be increased by: 83 800000 from NOK 937 440000 to NOK 1021 240 000 73 Reimbursement by contributors shall be reduced by: 25,000,000 from NOK 250000000 to NOK 225000000 88 Assistive Technology Centres, etc. , is reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 65000000 to NOK 63000000 5704 State guarantee for claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy 70 Dividends are reduced by: 40,000,000 from NOK 220000000 to NOK 180000000 5705 Reimbursement of daily allowances 70 Reimbursement of daily allowances, State guarantee in the event of bankruptcy, shall be reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 30000000 to NOK 27000000 ‘... Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide clear guidance on the choice of criteria in such a way that Norwegian industry is competitive in tendering procedures.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The size requests the government to set the capitalisation rate at three per cent with effect from 2018 until a new system for calculating the capitalisation rate is in place’. Proposal No. 35 sounds: «The Government is asked by the Government to amend the Customs Regulation § 5-9-1 by way of a regulation so that the exemption for goods with a value of less than SEK 350 will be completely terminated with effect from 1 August 2017. The majority also asks the government to return to Stortinget with proposals to amend the VAT Act § 7-2 and repeal the Customs Act § 5-9 to reflect this change.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e35711	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18, 22, 24, 30, 31, 34 and 36, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the cabotage legislation so that a carrier can carry out only up to 2 cabotage tours against 3 today.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The decision asks the government in the further negotiations with the business organisations on CO 2 funds to assess whether the fund can be a private fund by model of the NO x fund. The basis for the negotiation should be that the fund is allocated funds by way of a tax exemption and the corresponding membership fee. Furthermore, it shall be an objective of the negotiations that the CO 2 fund should enjoy the largest possible share of business transport by land, sea and air.» Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to return to Stortinget since the state budget for 2018 with a new model for the calculation of the capitalisation rate for hydropower plants.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take measures to ensure that no teaching places are empty at the start of the study because of changing character requirements for admission.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to file a case for the Storting to promote a reduction scheme for the interest compensation scheme for rehabilitation and investment in schools and swimming facilities’. Proposal No. 34 sounds: «The government is asked to amend the rules on holiday-relief funds so that they can also be used to cover capital costs.» Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote its own case at the start of the 2017-2018 session, which provides a full review of ongoing processes and regulatory developments under the EU Energy Union, and with proposals for solutions to ensure that Norwegian energy interests and Norwegian sovereignty over national energy policies are respected. The size of the budget does not deal with the number of processes and regulatory developments under the EU Energy Union in the context of the revised national budget for 2017.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals No. 18, 24, 30, 31, 34, and 36. For proposal No 22 they have notified subsidized aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e35770	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17, 19, 27 and 28, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up and bring into force a regulatory change to the effect that the Working Environment Act is fully applicable to petroleum-related activities carried out by vessels on a Norwegian base.’ [[including, inter alia, construction, plumbing, maintenance and removal]] Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that compulsory car passes on motor vehicles over 7500 kg are linked to the bank account/bank guarantee to ensure that Norwegian toll companies are paid for all such toll crossings in Norway.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all students in the vocational training programme are offered flexible training courses with an exchange of training between business and school throughout the training cycle up to a letter of qualification.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for models for the clearer and more direct responsibility for the follow-up of apprentices to vocational training programmes.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e35804	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to step up early school efforts and to ensure that all schools provide support and intensive education for students who do not have sufficient professional development.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e35821	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20, 23, 26, 32 and 33, from the Centre Party Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that when the police print fines and impose penalties on vehicle combinations, this shall be levied on the premises as the Road Service does when they issue charges for congestion, etc.’. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The big picture asks the government of the state budget for 2018 to propose tax changes that can help to make biogas more competitive. In this context, the Government is asking for a package of measures to strengthen the instruments that contribute to a significant increase in biogas production and turnover.» Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the 2018 government budget to promote a concrete material tax model or other instrument that will help reduce the share of fossil raw material in drinking packaging. The charging arrangements shall primarily stimulate the use of recycled raw material, but renewable raw material shall be included once the EU plastic strategy has been completed. The fee shall be set up in such a way that the beverages currently exempted from the basic charge achieve at least as good a relative competitive situation as they do today.’;» Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to assess the establishment of a permanent support scheme for private archives of the Ministry of Culture’s budget. It shall be assessed whether the scheme is to be administered by the National Archiver and whether all institutions that keep archives, including museums, should be allowed access to seek funds through the scheme.’;» Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to assume that appropriations resulting from the municipal reform will continue to be granted over its own item and that the continuing arrangements are one-off aid, reform aid and breakdown grants when the merged municipality is established.’» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for proposal No. 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e35863	There is a vote on proposal No. 29, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all youth schools offer employment as an alternative to 2nd foreign language and depression in English, Norwegian, sign language or Sami.’ The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have expressed support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e35880	There is a vote on proposal No. 104, from the right, the party of progress, the Christian party, and the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The discount agrees that, from 1 August 2017, exemptions from the parental allowance in kindergarten for 20 hours per week will be granted to all three-, four- and five-year-old households with taxable capital and person income of less than SEK 450,000 per year, cf. Regulation No 16 December 2005 1478 on parental benefit in kindergartens § 3.» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e35896	The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e54960	A vote shall be taken on the position of the Committee on C, I to IX and XII.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e54970	The opinion shall be put to the vote on the Committee's position at C, X. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e54984	It's votting over C, XI. Socialist Left Party has notified subsidiary aid to XI.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e54996	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of C, XIV and XVI. The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e55010	A vote shall be taken on the position of the Committee on C, XIII, XVII and XVIII. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e55025	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12, 14 and 15, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to come back to Stortinget with a case for a strengthening of the school leisure system. The case should include proposals for a national standard for the school leisure provision, focusing on learning through play, creativity and physical activity.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the government in the context of the 2018 government budget to assess whether the employee-employee option scheme in start-up enterprises should be more harmonised with similar arrangements in our neighbouring countries Sweden and the United Kingdom.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with the municipality of Andøy and the municipality of Nordland in order to fully finance the conversion work.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e55054	There is a vote on proposal No. 11th from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2017 budget shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 21 Government Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 770000 from NOK 169 500000 to NOK 177 200000 41 Size 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 15000000 to NOK 10000000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 514000000 to NOK 509000000 61 Supreme Court Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 75 000 from NOK 108 462 000 to NOK 108 387 000 100 Ministry of Foreign Affairs 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 2500000 from NOK 47 876 000 to NOK 45 376 000 71 Miscellaneous grants shall be increased by: 2500000 from NOK 26 755000 to NOK 29 255 000 115 Purposes of food promotion, culture and information 70 Subsidies for nutritional, cultural and information purposes may be transferred, used under item 1 may be reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 49 201000 to NOK 42 201000 117 The EEA Financial Mechanisms 75 The EEA Financial Mechanism 2009–2014 may be transferred, increased by: 103,000,000 from NOK 446000000 to NOK 549000000 76 The Norwegian Financial Mechanism 2009–2014 may be transferred, increased by: 353,000,000 from NOK 408000000 to NOK 761000000 77 The EEA Financial Mechanism 2014-2021 may be transferred, increased by: 79,000,000 from NOK 185000000 to NOK 264000000 78 The Norwegian Financial Mechanism 2014-2021 may be transferred, increased by: 53,000,000 from NOK 185000000 to NOK 238000000 118 North-area actions, etc. 70 North-area actions and project cooperation with Russia can be transferred, can be used under item 1 reduced by: 850000 from NOK 307 641000 to NOK 299 141 000 152 Assistance to the Middle East and North Africa 78 Regional allocation for the Middle East and North Africa may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 556000000 to NOK 566000000 163 Emergency aid, humanitarian aid and human rights 70 Emergency aid and humanitarian aid may be transferred, increased by: 273,847,000 from NOK 4 436 124 000 to NOK 4 709 971 000 72 Human rights, can be transferred, increased by: 14,000,000 from NOK 298 300000 to NOK 312 300000 165 Research, empowerment and evaluation 70 Research, may be transferred, increased by: 12,000,000 from NOK 156000000 to NOK 168000000 167 Refugee measures in Norway, approved as development aid [[ODA]] Special operating costs are reduced by: 349 800000 from NOK 2 949 375000 to NOK 2 599 575000 169 Global health and education 70 Global health, can be transmitted, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 3065000000 to NOK 3075000000 170 United Nations organisations, etc. 71 UN Population Fund [[UNFPA]] 22,000,000 from NOK 401000000 to NOK 423000000 76 United Nations and global challenges, can be transmitted, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 233 300000 to NOK 238 300000 172 Debt-related measures 70 Debt relief, balance of payments support and capacity building may be transferred, increased by: 41,000,000 from NOK 270000000 to NOK 311000000 200 Ministry of Knowledge Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 600 000 from NOK 347 426 000 to NOK 348 026 000 220 Directorate of Education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 7,900,000 from NOK 301,405000 to NOK 293,505000 70 Supplements to educational material, etc. , may be transferred, may be used under item 21, increased by: 650000 from NOK 58 685000 to NOK 65 185000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. State upper secondary schools and post-secondary non-tertiary schools Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 300000 from NOK 100 539 000 to NOK 100 839 000 224 Centres for ICT in education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 350000 from NOK 68 634 000 to NOK 68 984 000 225 Basic training measures 60 Grants to landlines are increased by: 600 000 from NOK 221 444 000 to NOK 222 044 000 64 Aid for the training of children and young people seeking residence in Norway is reduced by: 132 119 000 from NOK 384 162000 to NOK 252 043 000 67 Grants for training in Finnish are increased by: 2,200,000 from NOK 7 165 000 to NOK 9 365 000 73 Grants to study stays abroad are reduced by: 3,600,000 from NOK 17 749 000 to NOK 14 149 000 226 Quality development of initial training 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 25 160 000 from NOK 935 787 000 to NOK 910 627 000 23 Competence reform, granted by [[NY]] 50,000,000 70 Grants to NAROM shall be increased by: 6,621,000 from NOK 8 379 000 to NOK 15000000 227 Grants to special schools 70 Grants to the French school in Oslo will be increased by: 5000000 from NOK 10 442 000 to NOK 15 442 000 228 Grants to independent schools, etc. 71 Secondary free time schools, estimates, are reduced by: 9000000 from NOK 1602,854000 to NOK 1593,854000 83 Grants to in-house and fresh schools providing education to adult students without secondary education are awarded by: [[NY]] 18,000,000 230 State Special Educational Support System Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 705 085 000 to NOK 700 085 000 231 Kindergartens 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 51, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 440 190 000 to NOK 430 190 000 50 Grants to Sami nursery services are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 16 565 000 to NOK 21 565 000 60 Grants to multiple kindergarten teachers are reduced by: 172 200000 from NOK 172 200000 to NOK 0 70 Grants for swimming in kindergartens, pilot projects by non-governmental organisations shall be increased by: 5000000 from NOK 35 290000 to NOK 40 290000 254 Adult training grants 70 Grants to study associations shall be increased by: 1000000 from NOK 208 374 000 to NOK 209 374 000 255 Contribution to Peace and Human Rights Centres 73 Nansen Fredssenter, increased by 1000000 from NOK 6 209 000 to NOK 7 209 000 256 Competence Norway Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 900000 from NOK 61 480 000 to NOK 62 380 000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 300000 from NOK 11 510000 to NOK 11 810000 257 Competence plus 70 Grants, may be transferred, increased by: 22,000,000 from NOK 162,237 000 to NOK 184,237 000 260 Universities and higher education institutions 50 State universities and higher education institutions are increased by: 8,878,000 from NOK 33,072,705000 to NOK 33,081,583,000 70 Private higher education institutions are increased by: 10 768 000 from NOK 1357 637 000 to NOK 1368 405 000 270 International mobility and social purposes for students 74 Subsidies for welfare work are increased by: 6000000 from NOK 84 756 000 to NOK 90 756 000 280 Common Units Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 10,750,000 from NOK 129 558 000 to NOK 140 308 000 50 Centres for Internationalisation of Education are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 83 125 000 to NOK 93 125 000 281 Joint actions for universities and higher education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under heading 70, increased by: 62 670,000 from NOK 248 870000 to NOK 311 540000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 13 421,000 to NOK 11 421000 50 Grants to the Norwegian Research Council shall be increased by: 36 400000 from NOK 191 436 000 to NOK 227 836 000 70 Other transfers, may be used under item 1, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 58 226 000 to NOK 60 226 000 283 Meteorology purposes 72 International cooperation projects are reduced by: 11 040000 from NOK 154 119 000 to NOK 143 079 000 285 Norwegian Research Council 53 Strategic bets are reduced by: 35,000,000 from NOK 1427 655000 to NOK 1392 655000 288 International cooperation actions 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 340,000 from NOK 43,892,000 to NOK 44,232 000 72 International basic research organisations are increased by: 321,000 from NOK 321,841,000 to NOK 322,162 000 73 The EU Framework Programme for Research may be transferred, reduced by: 338 313,000 from NOK 2 194 592 000 to NOK 1 856 279 000 75 UNESCO quota shall be reduced by: 1,300,000 from NOK 23 933 000 to NOK 22 633 000 315 Voluntary objectives 82 VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities is increased by: 10000000 from NOK 175 920000 to NOK 185 920000 86 Grants to international cycling in Norway shall be increased by: 750000 from NOK 13 590 000 to NOK 21 090 000 87 Grants to X Games, increased by 18,000,000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 28000000 320 Norwegian Cultural Council 55 Norwegian Cultural Fund, increased by 4,000,000 from NOK 893 956 000 to NOK 897 956 000 321 Artist's Economy 75 Remuneration schemes are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 190 347 000 to NOK 186 347 000 322 Building and public spaces 70 National cultural buildings may be transferred, increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 178 500000 to NOK 228 500000 323 Music and performing arts Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3 192,000 from NOK 89 623 000 to NOK 92 815 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 2,700,000 from NOK 60 947 000 to NOK 58 247 000 71 Regional/participating institutions are increased by: 1,300,000 from NOK 756 680000 to NOK 757 980000 325 General cultural purposes Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2,492,000 from NOK 116,715000 to NOK 114,223000 21 Research, investigation and special operating costs may be transferred, increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 13 407 000 to NOK 17 407 000 79 At the disposal, under item 1, may be reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 690000 to NOK 490000 328 Museum and visual art 70 The national museum network shall be increased by: 5000000 from NOK 1476 690000 to NOK 1481 690000 78 Various fixed measures are increased by: 5,300,000 from NOK 79 120000 to NOK 84 420000 334 Film and media applications 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 11 524 000 to NOK 8 524 000 73 Regional film bet, may be transferred, increased by: 1000000 from NOK 75 720 000 to NOK 76 720 000 340 The Norwegian Church 70 Framework grants to the Norwegian Church, may be used under item 1, increased by: 4,800,000 from NOK 1 969 173 000 to NOK 1 973 973 000 73 Grants to the Norwegian Church – settlement of holiday pay obligations, etc. , increased by: 21 750 000 from NOK 125000000 to NOK 146 750 000 400 Ministry of Justice and Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 127 000 from NOK 494 247 000 to NOK 494 374 000 23 Special operational expenditure, research and knowledge development may be transferred, reduced by: 131 000 from NOK 31 31 000 to NOK 31 179 000 410 Courts of Justice Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 39 553,000 from NOK 2 334 225 000 to NOK 2 373 778 000 411 Court of Justice Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 410 entry 1 is reduced by: 219 000 from NOK 84 425000 to NOK 84 206 000 430 Crime prevention services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2 713,000 from NOK 4 601 471000 to NOK 4 598 758000 70 Grants shall be increased by: 500000 from NOK 22 701000 to NOK 23 201000 432 Education centre of criminal services [[CRUS]] Operating costs are increased by: 19 600 000 from NOK 189 372 000 to NOK 208 972 000 440 Police Directorate - the Police and Len’s Seat Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 295 534 000 from NOK 16 710 504 000 to NOK 17 006 038 000 70 Grants shall be increased by: 310000 from NOK 82 080 000 to NOK 85 180 000 442 Police College Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 39 800000 from NOK 585 294000 to NOK 625 094000 444 Police security service [[PST]] Operating costs are increased by: 690000 from NOK 890 524 000 to NOK 897 424 000 445 Higher Public Prosecutor's Office Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 265000 from NOK 244 538 000 to NOK 244 803 000 448 Commissioner for Borders Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 300000 from NOK 5 165 000 to NOK 5 465000 451 Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 9,200,000 from NOK 746 332 000 to NOK 755 532 000 70 Transfers to private individuals are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 6 338 000 to NOK 8 338 000 452 Central crisis management Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 950,000 from NOK 26 651 000 to NOK 25 701 000 454 Rescue helicopter service 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 301 851,000 from NOK 2 140 161000 to NOK 1 838 310000 455 Rescue services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 104,778 000 to NOK 103,778 000 456 Emergency Communications Directorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 7,248,000 from NOK 211 578 000 to NOK 218 826 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Special operating expenditure - services and products, increased by: 10,029,000 from NOK 63 653 000 to NOK 73 682 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 159 737 000 from NOK 359 109 000 to NOK 518 846 000 467 Norwegian Lovtidend Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 507,000 from NOK 421,000 to NOK 4 728,000 469 Vertegration scheme Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 17 732,000 from NOK 195 963 000 to NOK 213 695 000 472 Victim compensation and counselling services for crime victims Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 123 000 from NOK 24 510000 to NOK 24387000 70 Compensation for victims of violence, allocation of an estimate, shall be increased by: 52,000,000 from NOK 365 503 000 to NOK 417 503 000 474 Conflict Board Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 509,000 from NOK 117,016,000 to NOK 117,525000 490 Directorate for Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 15 500000 from NOK 1 187 762,000 to NOK 1 172 262 000 21 Special operating costs, asylum receipts, are reduced by: 381 585 000 from NOK 2200 405000 to NOK 1 818 820000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Special operating costs, interpretation and translation, are reduced by: 41,700,000 from NOK 62 006000 to NOK 20 306 000 60 Grants to host municipalities for asylum recipients shall be reduced by: 3 122 000 from NOK 230 469 000 to NOK 227 347 000 70 Social benefits for residents in reception of asylum are increased by: 5,060,000 from NOK 308 350000 to NOK 313 410000 71 Grants to activities for children in reception of asylum are increased by: 1500000 from NOK 31 046 000 to NOK 32 546 000 75 Travel costs for refugees to and from abroad may be transferred, reduced by: 109 000 from NOK 15 623 000 to NOK 15 514 000 491 Foreigner’s Office Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 21, reduced by: 352,000 from NOK 320 187 000 to NOK 319 835000 495 Directorate for Integration and Diversity Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 200000 from NOK 262,727,000 to NOK 262,527,000 496 Residence of refugees and measures for immigrants 21 Special operating costs, knowledge development, may be transferred, reduced by: 750,000 from NOK 43 704 000 to NOK 42 954000 60 Integration grants, may be transferred, increased by: 56 318,000 from NOK 12 134 571 000 to NOK 12 190 889 000 61 Specific grant for the settlement of lone minor refugees, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 390 099 000 from NOK 3 768 338 000 to NOK 3 378 239 000 62 Local migration measures are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 179 906000 to NOK 189 906000 71 Grants to migrant organisations and other voluntary activities are increased by: 6000000 from NOK 85 460000 to NOK 91 460000 73 Grants shall be reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 15 035 000 to NOK 8 035 000 497 Norwegian and community education for adult immigrants This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Samples in Norwegian and community knowledge for adult immigrants are increased by: 750,000 from NOK 29 195 000 to NOK 29 945000 60 Grants for training in Norwegian and social skills for adult immigrants are reduced by: 89 570,000 from NOK 2 303 003 000 to NOK 2 213 433 000 500 Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2,200,000 from NOK 396 327,000 to NOK 394 127 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 2,380,000 from NOK 88 443 000 to NOK 86 063 000 25 Pre-project new government quarter, may be transferred, granted by: [[NY]] 4,000,000 510 Ministry Security and Service Organisation Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 39 820,000 from NOK 703 333 000 to NOK 663 513 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Joint expenditure of the Departments and the Office of the Prime Minister shall be reduced by: 10,449 000 from NOK 136,894000 to NOK 126,445000 520 Grants to political parties Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 500000 from NOK 8,730000 to NOK 8,230000 525 The County Departments Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 18,080,000 from NOK 1 838 069 000 to NOK 1 819 989 000 530 Construction projects outside the housing arrangement 33 The continuation of construction projects may be transferred, reduced by: 300000 000 from NOK 245000000 to NOK 2 155000000 36 Artistic decoration, may be transferred, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 19000000 to NOK 9000000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 77000000 to NOK 81000000 540 Directorate for Management and ICT Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 700 000 from NOK 266,711000 to NOK 268,411000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 27 310000 to NOK 26 310000 26 Risk relief scheme for public procurement, granted by: [[NY]] 10000000 541 ICT policy 70 Subsidies for the management development and coordination of ICT policies can be used under Chapters. 541 entry 22, increased by: 180 000 from NOK 6328 000 to NOK 6508000 542 International ICT Cooperation and Development Programme 70 Grants to international programmes may be transferred, reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 31 300000 to NOK 29 300000 545 The Data Protection Authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 140 000 from NOK 50 639 000 to NOK 50 779 000 552 National cooperation for regional development 62 National measures for local community development, funded by: [[NY]] 4500000 553 Convertible regions 65 Conversion programmes in the event of acute changes in the labour market may be used under the heading of Chapter 1. 553 entries 60 and 63 are increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 130000000 to NOK 160000000 560 Composite 50 The combination is increased by: 2,550 000 from NOK 301,617 000 to NOK 304,167 000 563 International reindeer management centre Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 380 000 from NOK 5 929 000 to NOK 6 309 000 567 National minorities 25 Measures for the Roma population(s), may be transmitted, granted by: [[NY]] 2000000 60 Space measures may be transmitted, reduced by: 220000 from NOK 6 371,000 to NOK 4 121 000 71 Grants to the Romani people’s cultural fund(s) shall be reduced by: 5,374 000 from NOK 5 374 000 to NOK 0 74 The cultural and resource centres of Norwegian spaces shall be reduced by: 10,500,000 from NOK 12000000 to NOK 1500000 75 Temporary grant scheme to the Roma people/tatians may be transferred, granted by: [[NY]] 3 374 000 571 Framework grants to municipalities 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 6000000 from NOK 21 556 000 to NOK 15 556 000 60 Intrinsic subsidies are increased by: 316 264 000 from NOK 121 544 312 000 to NOK 121 860 576 000 64 Discretionary participation, can be used under a hood. 572, entry 64, is increased by 20,000,000 from NOK 166000000 to NOK 1626000000 572 Framework grant to county municipalities 60 Intrinsic subsidies are increased by: 184,000,000 from NOK 32 150 448 000 to NOK 32 334 448 000 573 Municipal reform 60 Disadvantages and reform support in the case of community mergers, estimates, are reduced by: 32,425,000 from NOK 1058 325000 to NOK 1025 900 000 61 Disposal costs of aggregation, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 210 000 000 from NOK 240000000 to NOK 30000000 580 Dwelling aid 70 Housing aid, estimates, is reduced by: 20 800000 from NOK 2875 300000 to NOK 2 854 500000 585 Lease vis-à-vis the Committee Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 230 000 from NOK 28 345000 to NOK 28 575000 587 Directorate for Building Quality Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 220 000 from NOK 99 985000 to NOK 100 205000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Knowledge development and information dissemination are increased by: 350000 from NOK 44 430000 to NOK 47 930000 590 Planning and urban development 72 Subsidies for housing, urban and territorial development may be transferred, increased by: 6000000 from NOK 34 171000 to NOK 40 171000 595 State Charts, object lighting and national geographical infrastructure 21 Special operating costs, may be transferred, may be used under Chapter. 595, entries 1 and 45 are increased by: 55 263 000 from NOK 311 597 000 to NOK 366 860000 601 Exploration, research and related activities 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 370,000 from NOK 57 395 000 to NOK 57 025 000 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 4,630,000 from NOK 36 120000 to NOK 31 490000 605 The seat of employment and welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 142 700 000 from NOK 11 435 967 000 to NOK 11 578 667 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Research and investigation activities are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 48 704 000 to NOK 46 704 000 611 Pensions of state funds Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 2,200,000 from NOK 20 200000 to NOK 18000000 612 Grants to State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 121 832,000 from NOK 5 418 168 000 to NOK 5 540 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Final settlement, allocation of estimates, shall be reduced by: 33,000,000 from NOK 6000000 to NOK -27000000 70 For other members of the State pension fund, the estimate is increased by: 2000000 from NOK 134000000 to NOK 136000000 613 Employer’s fee for social security Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 268 200000 from NOK 289 200000 to NOK 21000000 614 Housing loan scheme of the State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 34000000 to NOK 30000000 90 Loans, estimates, are reduced by: 1 100,000,000 from NOK 45000000 to NOK 340000000000 615 Insurance against professional injury Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 11,000,000 from NOK 96000000 to NOK 85000000 616 Group life insurance services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 194000000 to NOK 192000000 621 Subsidies for social services and social inclusion 63 Social services and measures for the disadvantaged may be transferred, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 155 760000 to NOK 160 760000 634 Labour market measures 76 Measures for job seekers may be transferred, increased by: 2 226 000 from NOK 7 720 609 000 to NOK 7 722 835000 77 Permanently organised work may be transferred, increased by: 21,000,000 from NOK 1326 990 000 to NOK 1347 990 000 635 Wages and salaries Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 30000000 to NOK 33000000 640 Labour Inspectorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 25,000,000 from NOK 615 260 000 to NOK 640 260 000 642 Petroleum control Add User-ID Succeeded Operating expenditure, may be used under item 21, increased by: 900000 from NOK 260 369 000 to NOK 261 269 000 646 Pioneer Divers in the North Sea 71 Upload, may be transferred, granted by [[NY]] 700000 648 Labour law, Riksmökleren etc. 70 Contributions to professional development shall be reduced by: 900000 from NOK 4000000 to NOK 310000 660 War Pension 70 Grants, military, allocation of estimates, are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 86000000 to NOK 84000000 71 Grants, civil, estimates, are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 215000000 to NOK 210000000 664 Seafarer pension scheme 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 28,000,000 from NOK 83000000 to NOK 55000000 666 Retirement contract [[AFP]] Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 1930000000 to NOK 1910000000 667 Supplementary social benefits for persons over 67 years of age 70 Grants, estimates, are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 325000000 to NOK 330000000 701 Directorate for eHealth 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 17,000,000 from NOK 354 128 000 to NOK 337 128 000 703 International cooperation 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 8 043 000 to NOK 13 043 000 710 Public health institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 30 400000 from NOK 784 626 000 to NOK 754 226 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 790 335000 to NOK 780 335000 714 Public health 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under items 70, 74 and 79, reduced by: 2,080,000 from NOK 151 003 000 to NOK 148 923 000 60 Municipal actions, may be transferred, can be used under item 21, reduced by: 1500000 from NOK 78 969 000 to NOK 77 469 000 79 Other grants, may be carried over, may be used under item 21, reduced by: 2860 000 from NOK 66 449 000 to NOK 63 589 000 720 Directorate for Health Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 98 128 000 from NOK 1,262,841,000 to NOK 1,164,713,000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 15 842,000 from NOK 32 598 000 to NOK 16 756 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 4,211,000 from NOK 4211000 to NOK 0 60 Guest builder’s establishment for permanent residents, awarded with: [[NY]] 80,000,000 721 National Health Supervisors Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 720000 from NOK 129 342 000 to NOK 136 542 000 723 National health complaint body Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3,800,000 from DKK 124 441000 to NOK 128 241000 732 Regional health establishments 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 3,800,000 from NOK 19 686 000 to NOK 15 886 000 70 Specific grants, may be carried over, may be used under headings 72, 73, 74 and 75, increased by: 57 300000 from NOK 1786 241,000 to NOK 1 843 541000 72 Basic appropriations Health south-east RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 269 100000 from NOK 50,034,672 000 to NOK 49,765,572 000 73 Basic appropriations Health West RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 95,000,000 from NOK 17 659 836 000 to NOK 17 564 836 000 74 Basic appropriations Health Middle Norway RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 71 700 000 from NOK 13 328 177 000 to NOK 13 256 477 000 75 Basic appropriations Health North RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 64 200000 from NOK 11 942 678 000 to NOK 11 878 478 000 77 Outpatient services, etc. , estimates are increased by: 128,000,000 from NOK 3251 892,000 to NOK 3379 892 000 82 Investment loans, may be transferred, increased by: 70000000 from NOK 1566 883 000 to NOK 1636 883 000 747 State Radiation Protection 1 Operating costs, granted by: [[NY]] 92 128 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, granted by: [[NY]] 17 342,000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, granted by: [[NY]] 4,211,000 750 National Agency for Medicinal Products Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 18 290 000 from NOK 287 554 000 to NOK 269 264 000 761 Nursing services 60 Community competence measures may be transferred, increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 129 289 000 to NOK 144 289 000 62 Daily activity offers, can be transferred, reduced by: 25,000,000 from NOK 262,652 000 to NOK 237,652 000 63 Investment grants may be transferred, increased by: 107 600 000 from NOK 3298 100000 to NOK 3405 700000 65 Trials of state funding of care services, estimates, are reduced by: 564,000 from NOK 124 906 000 to NOK 1219 242 000 67 Development measures shall be increased by: 17,000,000 from NOK 68 908000 to NOK 85 908000 68 Competence and innovation are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 365 874 000 to NOK 367,874 000 762 Primary Health Service 21 Special operating costs may be used under heading 70, reduced by: 100000 from NOK 70 290000 to NOK 70 190 000 63 General medical services are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 89 349 000 to NOK 94 349 000 73 Sexual health, may be transmitted, reduced by: 2 100000 from NOK 55 628 000 to NOK 53 528 000 765 Psychiatric and drug services 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 72, reduced by: 380 000 from NOK 129,710000 to NOK 129,330000 72 Voluntary work, etc. , may be transferred, may be used under item 21, increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 366,925000 to NOK 370,925000 73 Development measures, etc. , is reduced by: 950000 from NOK 142 251000 to NOK 132 751000 75 Violence and traumatic stress, can be transmitted, increased by: 6,180 000 from NOK 173,031000 to NOK 179,211000 769 Exploration, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be used under heading 70, increased by: 7000000 from NOK 14 548 000 to NOK 21 548 000 770 Dental practice services 21 Special operating costs may be used under heading 70, reduced by: 1,300,000 from NOK 30 251000 to NOK 28 951000 780 Research 50 Norwegian Research Council, etc. , increased by: 16,000,000 from NOK 332 207 000 to NOK 348 207 000 800 Ministry of Children and Gender Equality Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 800000 from NOK 152 080 000 to NOK 152 880 000 840 Action against violence and abuse 21 Special operating costs may be used under heading 70, increased by: 400000 from NOK 19 715 000 to NOK 20 115000 70 Grants for violence prevention, etc. , may be used under heading 21 and Chapter. 858 entry 1 is increased by: 1000000 from NOK 64 348 000 to NOK 65 348 000 844 Cash support 70 Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 100000 000 from NOK 1709 500000 to NOK 1609 500000 845 Child-rescue 70 Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 50,000,000 from NOK 15 180 000 to NOK 15 130 000 846 Family and growth measures 21 Special operating costs may be used under item 50 and item 71, increased by: 325000 from NOK 13 318 000 to NOK 13 643 000 60 Children’s and youth action in larger urban communities may be transferred, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 29 789 000 to NOK 31 789 000 61 National grant scheme against child poverty, can be used under item 71, increased by: 26,000,000 from NOK 193 412000 to NOK 219 412000 62 Developments in municipalities are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 79 647,000 to NOK 82 647 000 79 Grants for international youth cooperation, etc. , may be transmitted, reduced by: 400000 from NOK 8,656 000 to NOK 8,256 000 847 EU Youth Programme Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 1,245,000 from NOK 8 188 000 to NOK 9 433 000 848 The Children’s Ombudsman Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 570000 from NOK 15 554 000 to NOK 21 254 000 853 Children's protection and social affairs students Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 216 969 000 to NOK 214 969 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 3,700,000 from NOK 7 639 000 to NOK 11 339 000 854 Measures in the field of child protection 21 Special operating costs may be used under item 71, increased by: 1,300,000 from NOK 68 176 000 to NOK 69 476 000 65 Reimbursement of municipal expenditure on child protection measures relating to lone minor asylum seekers and refugees, estimates, is increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 470000 to NOK 520000 71 Development and information, etc. , may be used under item 21, reduced by: 1 700 000 from NOK 33 155 000 to NOK 31 455000 856 Childcare centre for lone minor asylum seekers Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 359 200000 from NOK 843 825000 to NOK 484 625000 858 Directorate for Children, Youth and Family 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 325000 from NOK 14 283 000 to NOK 13 958 000 865 Consumer policy measures 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 50, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 249 000 to NOK 1 149 000 867 Secretariat of the Market Council and Consumer Dispute Committee Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 11 466 000 to NOK 12 466 000 871 Equality and non-discrimination 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under heading 70, increased by: 5,310,000 from NOK 9 601,000 to NOK 14 911000 900 Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1,300,000 from NOK 430 248 000 to NOK 431 548 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 1 440,000 from NOK 87 601000 to NOK 89 041000 22 Andøya space centres – New Ålesund investment, granted by [[NY]] 30,000,000 31 Top industrial centres, awarded with: [[NY]] 5000000 71 Environmental action Raufoss is increased by: 5,800,000 from NOK 320000 to NOK 9000000 75 Grants to specific projects may be transferred, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 12 900 000 to NOK 11 900 000 77 Grants to maritime food measures may be transferred, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 8 750 000 to NOK 10 750 000 79 Subsidies to the Mechatronics Innovation Lab, increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 30000000 to NOK 60000000 902 Adjusters Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 122 788 000 to NOK 123 788 000 905 Geological survey of Norway Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 8,000,000 from NOK 171 253 000 to NOK 179 253 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 4500000 from NOK 72 387 000 to NOK 76 887 000 909 Measures for employment of seafarers 73 Allowances for employment of seafarers, estimates, are increased by: 27,000,000 from NOK 2 10000000 to NOK 2 127000000 915 Council of Rules Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 060 000 from NOK 8 569 000 to NOK 9 629 000 917 Directorate for Fisheries This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Fisheries research and monitoring may be transmitted, reduced by: 5,200,000 from NOK 67 800000 to NOK 62 600 000 919 Miscellaneous fishing purposes 76 Grants for fisheries research may be transferred, reduced by: 1 700 000 from NOK 22 100000 to NOK 20 400000 920 Norwegian Research Council 50 Grants to research are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 2 311 806 000 to NOK 2 301 806 000 922 Space activities 73 EU space programmes are reduced by: 43,000,000 from NOK 280 200000 to NOK 237 200000 924 International cooperation and development programmes 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 20 300000 from NOK 48 616 000 to NOK 28 316 000 925 Marine Research Institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 15 250000 from NOK 494 862,000 to NOK 479 612000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Fisheries research and monitoring may be transferred, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 139 200000 to NOK 144 200000 926 Research vessel Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 15 250000 from NOK 160 878 000 to NOK 176 128 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 55,000,000 from NOK 1047 100000 to NOK 992 100000 927 NIFES This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Fisheries research and monitoring may be transferred, increased by: 690000 from NOK 690000 to NOK 13 800000 940 Internationalisation measures 22 Norwegian ocean partners, granted by [[NY]] 5000000 73 Aid in the case of exports of capital goods shall be granted by: [[NY]] 111 600 000 950 Management of state ownership 54 Loss provision, investment capital Investmentor AS, is reduced by: 35,000,000 from NOK 35000000 to NOK 0 95 Equity deposits to Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkkompani AS, are increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 144000000 to NOK 159000000 96 Shares are reduced by: 90 000 000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 10000000 1100 Ministry of Agriculture and Food 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 1542 000 to NOK 16 542 000 45 Major equipment acquisitions and maintenance – ordinary administrative bodies, may be transferred, can be used under heading 50, increased by: 637 000 from NOK 2693 000 to NOK 330000 1115 Food Authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 1347 945000 to NOK 1348 945000 1137 Research and innovation 52 Research and innovation forest/earth, funded by: [[NY]] 5000000 1150 For the implementation of the agricultural agreement, etc. 78 Welfare schemes may be transferred, reduced by: 750000 from NOK 1541 954 000 to NOK 1534 454 000 1300 Ministry of Transport Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 320 000 from NOK 187 379 000 to NOK 187 699 000 21 Special operating expenditure — studies, modernisation of the transport sector, reduced by: 2,200,000 from NOK 12 727 000 to NOK 10 527 000 71 Aid for road safety purposes, etc. , increased by: 1500000 from NOK 60 900 000 to NOK 62 400000 74 Grants to the Rescue Company shall be increased by: 10000000 from NOK 83 500000 to NOK 93 500000 1320 State Road Service 23 Operation and maintenance services of highways, roads, road and vehicle traffic control services, etc. , may be transferred, may be used under entry 29, entry 30, entry 31 and entry 72, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 11 477 894000 to NOK 11 467 894000 30 Road transport investments may be carried over, may be used under item 23, item 29, item 31 and item 72, reduced by: 7 400000 from NOK 14 321 800000 to NOK 14 314 400000 1321 New Roads AS 71 Net expenditure — transfers of assets and liabilities from the State’s road network, granted by: [[NY]] 6,632,000 1352 Railway Directorate 73 Purchases of infrastructure services – investments, transferable, can be used under items 71, 72 and 74, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 2467 300000 to NOK 2477 300000 1360 Coastal works Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 45, increased by: 10,700,000 from NOK 1 706 272,000 to NOK 1 716 972 000 30 New installations and major maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 18,000,000 from NOK 408 800000 to NOK 426 800000 1370 Postal services 70 Purchases of postal and banking services are increased by: 1500000 from NOK 272,200000 to NOK 273,700000 1380 National communication authority 70 Contributions to telecommunications security and preparedness may be transferred, increased by: 76 500000 from NOK 80 200000 to NOK 156 700000 1400 Ministry of Climate and Environment Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 475000 from NOK 279 621 000 to NOK 279 146 000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 12 130 000 from NOK 49 246 000 to NOK 61 376 000 76 Support for national and international environmental measures may be transferred, reduced by: 18,000,000 from NOK 61 098 000 to NOK 43 098 000 1410 Environmental research and monitoring 70 National tasks of environmental research institutes shall be increased by: 1000000 from NOK 48 141 000 to NOK 49 141 000 1420 Directorate for the Environment Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3,814,000 from NOK 667 766 000 to NOK 671 580000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 50 900 000 from NOK 225,072 000 to NOK 275,972 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. State action on the aquatic environment is reduced by: 6000000 from NOK 297 552,000 to NOK 291 552,000 37 Forest planting, may be transmitted, reduced by: 14 375 000 from NOK 14 375000 to NOK 0 38 Restoration of ants, may be transferred, reduced by: 950000 from NOK 23 625000 to NOK 14 125 000 61 Contributions to climate action and adaptation may be transferred, reduced by: 155 820,000 from NOK 156 920000 to NOK 1 100000 63 Return arrangements for end-of-life recreational craft, granted by: [[NY]] 20,000,000 65 Measures in municipalities with wolfevir in Hedmark, Akershus and Østfold are granted by [[NY]] 20,000,000 69 Cleaning measures, may be carried over, can be used under items 39 and 79, reduced by: 62000000 from NOK 271,562 000 to NOK 209 562 000 70 Subsidies for aquatic environmental measures may be transferred, increased by: 18,000,000 from NOK 54 755000 to NOK 72 755000 71 Marine litter, may be transferred, increased by: 25,000,000 from NOK 35 290000 to NOK 60 290000 73 Grants to predatory game measures may be transferred, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 70,051 000 to NOK 60,051 000 75 Payment of a mortgage for car wrecks, allocation of an estimate, is reduced by: 50,000,000 from NOK 731 760000 to NOK 681 760000 76 Reimbursement schemes, estimates, are increased by: 15 637 000 from NOK 76 042 000 to NOK 91 679 000 77 Various organisations and foundations n.e.c. , increased by: 1000000 from NOK 14 416 000 to NOK 15 416 000 78 Outdoor purposes, may be transmitted, increased by: 6000000 from NOK 181,821,000 to NOK 187,821000 79 Cleaning measures, may be carried over, may be used under items 39 and 69, increased by: 500000 from NOK 450000 to NOK 950000 81 World heritage, cultural landscapes and natural heritage creation may be transferred, used under item 21, increased by: 7000000 from NOK 48 261000 to NOK 55 261000 82 Subsidies to endangered species and habitat types may be transferred, may be used under item 21, reduced by: 51 200000 from NOK 74 989 000 to NOK 23 789 000 85 Natural information centres may be transferred, increased by: 1 600 000 from NOK 55 714 000 to NOK 57 314 000 1429 Riksantikvaren 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 4,935000 from NOK 51 243 000 to NOK 46 308 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Conservation tasks may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 24 304 000 to NOK 34 304 000 60 Cultural memory work in municipalities is increased by: 5000000 from NOK 416,000 to NOK 9 116000 70 Grants to automatically peaced and other archaeological cultural memories may be transferred, increased by: 21,000,000 from NOK 33 564 000 to NOK 54 564 000 71 Contributions to peaceful cultural memories in private ownership, cultural environment and cultural landscapes may be transferred, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 147,015000 to NOK 149,015000 1471 Norwegian Polar Institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 7 681,000 from NOK 228 070 000 to NOK 220 389 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 187 000 from NOK 70 707 000 to NOK 70 520000 1473 Kings Bay AS 70 Grants shall be increased by: 12,000,000 from NOK 41,573 000 to NOK 53,573 000 1474 Fram – North Region Centre for Climate and Environmental Research 70 Grants to private recipients may be transferred, may be used under heading 50, increased by: 6,380,000 from NOK 28000000 to NOK 34 380 000 1481 Climate allowances This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Purchases of allowances, general scheme, may be transferred, reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 195 300000 to NOK 175 300000 1482 International climate and development measures Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 52,000 from NOK 97 429 000 to NOK 97 377 000 1600 Ministry of Finance 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 11 500000 from NOK 58 618 000 to NOK 47 118 000 1605 Directorate for Financial Management Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 72 659,000 from NOK 378 130 000 to NOK 450 789 000 1608 Measures to strengthen State economic and project management 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 15 953 000 to NOK 17 953 000 1610 Customs duties Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 950000 from NOK 1476 431000 to NOK 1485 931000 1618 Tax receipts Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2,900,000 from NOK 5 662 708 000 to NOK 5 665 608 000 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 25,000,000 from NOK 190 300000 to NOK 165 300000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Major IT projects may be transferred, reduced by: 105 200 000 from NOK 358,700000 to NOK 253,500000 23 Special operating costs, a scheme, are increased by: 3,300,000 from NOK 84,751,000 to NOK 88,051 000 1620 Statistical Central Bureau Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 16 900 000 from NOK 562 986 000 to NOK 579 886 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 36 900 000 from NOK 242 453 000 to NOK 205 553 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 44 300000 to NOK 64 300000 1632 Compensation for VAT 61 Grants to municipalities and county councils, estimates, are increased by: 1,000,000 from NOK 21 200000000 to NOK 22 200000000 72 Grants to private and non-profit institutions serving households, estimates, are increased by: 90 000 000 from NOK 1980000000 to NOK 2 070000000 1633 Net scheme, State-paid VAT Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 400,000 from NOK 5 683 531000 to NOK 6 083 531000 1651 Central government debt, repayments and redemptions 98 Deductions on domestic debt, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 12 248,000,000 from NOK 63 207 000 to NOK 50 959 000 1670 Provisions for the Nordic Investment Bank 90 Paid-up own funds are reduced by: 5 170 000 from NOK 119 800000 to NOK 114 630000 1700 Ministry of Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 16 607,000 from NOK 772 976 000 to NOK 789 583 000 43 At the disposal of the Ministry of Defence, may be transferred, reduced by: 310000 from NOK 15 610000 to NOK 12 510000 71 Transfers to others may be transferred, reduced by: 2,941,000 from NOK 60 825000 to NOK 57 884000 1710 Defence and new buildings and new installations Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be carried over, reduced by: 5,124 000 from NOK 3641 748 000 to NOK 3636 624 000 45 Major acquisitions and maintenance of equipment may be carried over, may be used under cover. 1760, entry 45, increased by 13,000,000 from NOK 277,515000 to NOK 290,515000 1720 Joint management and command apparatus Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 13 561,000 from NOK 5 306 251,000 to NOK 5 292 690000 70 Interest on loans reduced by: 4,517,000 from NOK 4517000 to NOK 0 1723 National safety authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1,458,000 from NOK 258,716,000 to NOK 257,258 000 1725 Joint institutions and expenditure under the Defence Staff Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 108 638 000 from NOK 825 403 000 to NOK 716 765 000 1731 Army Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 58 846,000 from NOK 5 460 228 000 to NOK 5 519 074 000 1732 Sea defence services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 565000 from NOK 4 236 223 000 to NOK 4 236 788 000 1733 Air Force Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 34 034 000 from NOK 4 774 506 000 to NOK 4 808 540 000 1734 Home Security Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 22 170 000 from NOK 1378 353 000 to NOK 1 400 523 000 1735 Intelligence 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 20 100000 from NOK 1714 268 000 to NOK 1734 368 000 1740 Defence Logistics Organisation Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 101 652,000 from NOK 1797 022 000 to NOK 1898 674 000 1760 Defence and major acquisitions and maintenance Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 1760, entry 45, increased by 193 073 000 from NOK 1 502,392,000 to NOK 1 695,465000 45 Major acquisitions and maintenance of equipment may be carried over, may be used under cover. 1761, entry 45 is increased by 265 009 000 from NOK 4 907 916 000 to NOK 5 172 925000 48 Jointly financed investments, jointly financed, may be transferred, reduced by: 10 136 000 from NOK 71 500000 to NOK 61 364000 1761 New base-solution fighter aircraft Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 1761, entry 45 is reduced by 8 151,000 from NOK 194 686 000 to NOK 186 535 000 1790 Coast Guard Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 118 901,000 from NOK 1094 428,000 to NOK 975 527 000 1791 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 68 734 000 from NOK 925 343 000 to NOK 994 077 000 1792 Norwegian forces abroad Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 213 899 000 from NOK 823 497 000 to NOK 1037 396 000 1795 Cultural and non-profit-making purposes Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 4,620,000 from NOK 252 602,000 to NOK 257 222 000 1800 Ministry of Oil and Energy 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 72, reduced by: 500000 from NOK 26 927 000 to NOK 26 427 000 72 Grants for oil and energy purposes, may be transferred, may be used under heading 21, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 5000000 to NOK 7000000 1810 Oil Directorate 23 Mission and cooperation activities may be transferred, reduced by: 8,000,000 from NOK 125000000 to NOK 117000000 1815 Petoro AS 72 Administration, Petoro Iceland AS, is reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 1500000 to NOK 500000 1820 Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorate This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Flow and cutting prevention, may be transmitted, can be used under items 45, 60 and 72, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 272,892 000 to NOK 292,892 000 60 Grants for flood and step-by-step prevention may be carried over, may be used under headings 22 and 72, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 70000000 to NOK 75000000 1825 Energy conversion, energy and climate technologies 95 Capital deposits are reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 15000000 to NOK 0 96 Shares are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 0 1830 Research and industrial development 70 International cooperation and development measures may be transferred, reduced by: 14,000,000 from NOK 31 300000 to NOK 17 300000 1840 CO2 management 96 Shares, by [[NY]] 2000000 2309 Random expense Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 390,000 from NOK 4 181 873 000 to NOK 3791 873 000 2410 State Loan Fund for Education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 45, increased by: 6410000 from NOK 377 168 000 to NOK 383 578 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, may be used under item 1, reduced by: 560000 from NOK 560000 to NOK 0 50 Appropriations for education grants, estimates, are increased by: 4,329,000 from NOK 6 583 093 000 to NOK 6 587 422 000 70 Training grants, estimates, are increased by: 30,531,000 from NOK 2725 294 000 to NOK 2755 825000 71 Other scholarships, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 55 194,000 from NOK 830 404 000 to NOK 775 21000000 72 Interest subsidies, estimates, are increased by: 45 240 000 from NOK 906 162,000 to NOK 951 402,000 73 Depreciation, estimate allocation, is reduced by: 24 506,000 from NOK 614 766 000 to NOK 590 260 000 74 Losses on loans increased by: 12 450 000 from NOK 368 100000 to NOK 380 550000 90 Increases in loans and interest payable, estimates are reduced by: 251 359 000 from NOK 26 072 450000 to NOK 25 821 091000 2421 Innovation Norway 50 Innovation – projects, funds, are reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 593 500000 to NOK 573 500000 51 Seed funds ICT industries, loss reserves, are increased by: 9,200,000 from NOK 37 200000 to NOK 46 400000 53 Seed funds ICT industries, risk-absorbing, are reduced by: 18 800000 from NOK 18 800000 to NOK 0 70 Basic costs, increased by: 2500000 from NOK 166 489 000 to NOK 168 989 000 76 Environmental technologies, can be transmitted, increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 534 500000 to NOK 549 500000 95 Seed funds ICT industries, equity, increased by 26,000,000 from NOK 106 300000 to NOK 132 300000 2429 Export Credit Norway AS 70 Grants shall be increased by: 2000000 from NOK 107 698 000 to NOK 109 698 000 2440 Direct economic involvement of the country in the petroleum industry 30 Investments are increased by: 1 500,000,000 from NOK 25 50000000 to NOK 27000000 2445 State-owned buildings 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue -4 731 960000 2 Operating expenditure 2 063 770000 3 Depreciation 1 311 514 000 4 Interest on the capital of the country 86 000 000 5 For investment purposes 1 129 976 000 Syd -140 700000 30 Building design, may be transferred, increased by: 68,000,000 from NOK 138 001000 to NOK 206 001000 31 The start of ordinary construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 115000000 to NOK 125000000 33 The continuation of ordinary construction projects may be transferred, reduced by: 580,000 from NOK 256 254 000 to NOK 1676 254 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 183 828 000 to NOK 283 828 000 2460 Export Credit Guarantee Institute 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue -180000000 2 Operating expenditure 180 000 000, forecasting appropriations Syd 0 2470 General government pension fund 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue -649 569 000, statement of estimates 2 Operating expenditure 461 105 000, statement of estimates 3 Depreciation 121 354 000 4 Interest on national capital 2 884 000 5 For investment purposes 38 070 000 6 For regulatory fund 4 020 000 Syd -22 136 000 2530 Parental carcass 70 Birth culls, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 160,000,000 from NOK 19 810 000 to NOK 19 650 000 71 One-off maternity and adoption benefits, estimates are increased by: 18,000,000 from NOK 612000000 to NOK 630000 72 Parental leave allowance, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 495000000 to NOK 485000000 73 In the event of adoption, the estimates are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 54000000 to NOK 57000000 2541 Day money 70 Appropriations for the day shall be reduced by: 1,850,000 from NOK 16 300000 to NOK 14 450000000 2542 State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, etc. 70 State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, etc. , estimates are reduced by: 160,000,000 from NOK 975000000 to NOK 815000 2620 Social benefits to a lonely mother or father 70 Transitional assistance, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 400,000 from NOK 2510000000 to NOK 2110000000 72 Support for child care, the allocation of estimates, is reduced by: 60,000,000 from NOK 295000000 to NOK 235000000 73 Education assistance is reduced by: 17,000,000 from NOK 42000000 to NOK 25000000 75 Grants for moving to work are increased by: 200000 from NOK 200000 to NOK 400000 76 Advances in contributions shall be increased by: 35,000,000 from NOK 715000000 to NOK 750000000 2650 Sykepenger 70 Sickness allowance for employees, etc. , estimates are reduced by: 660,000 from NOK 36 630000000 to NOK 35 970000000 71 Sickness benefits for self-employed persons, estimated appropriations, are increased by: 19,000,000 from NOK 140000 000 to NOK 1419000000 72 Nursing, training, n.e.c. , estimates are reduced by: 30,000,000 from NOK 75000000 to NOK 720000000 75 Health care holiday pay, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 30,000,000 from NOK 2040000000 to NOK 2 010000000 2651 Clearance of duties 70 Clearance of work, allocation of estimates, is reduced by: 280,000,000 from NOK 34 510000000 to NOK 34 230000 71 Supplementary aid, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 295000000 to NOK 285000000 72 Medical statements shall be reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 415000000 to NOK 40000000 2655 Disability 70 Misappropriation, allocation of estimates, shall be reduced by: 1 212,000,000 from NOK 83 812000000 to NOK 82 600000000 75 Men's compensation in the event of occupational injury, estimated appropriations, shall be reduced by: 25,000,000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 75000000 76 Occupational injury prevention gml. legislation, the allocation of estimates shall be increased by: 2000000 from NOK 43000000 to NOK 45000000 2661 Basic and auxiliary aid, aids, etc. 70 Basic aid, estimates, is increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 1867000000 to NOK 1870000000 71 Auxiliary services, estimate appropriations, are reduced by 2000000 from NOK 1632000000 to NOK 1630000000 73 Utilities, etc. in the course of work and training, shall be reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 133000000 to NOK 132000000 74 Supplements to cars are increased by: 55 500000 from NOK 709 500000 to NOK 765000 75 Improvements in functionality, assistive devices, are increased by: 91 300000 from NOK 2918 700000 to NOK 3 010000000 76 Improvement of functionality, assistive devices such as services, is reduced by: 16 200000 from NOK 271200000 to NOK 255000000 77 Orthopaedic aids shall be increased by: 105 000 000 from NOK 1305000000 to NOK 1410000000 78 Hearing aids, reduced by: 55,000,000 from NOK 700000 to NOK 6450000000 2670 Age 70 Basic pension, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 986,000,000 from NOK 71 690000 to NOK 70 704000000 71 Supplementary pension, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 1,790,000 from NOK 136,720000000 to NOK 134,930,000 72 Pensions on income, estimates, are increased by: 21,000,000 from NOK 615000000 to NOK 636000000 73 Special supplements, pension supplements etc. , estimates are reduced by: 100000 000 from NOK 5940000000 to NOK 5840000000 2680 Survivors 70 Basic pension, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 1140000000 to NOK 1130000000 71 Supplementary pension, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 860000 to NOK 850000000 72 Special supplement, estimate allocation, is reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 88000000 to NOK 84000000 74 Education assistance is reduced by: 100000 from NOK 400000 to NOK 300000 75 Support for child care, the allocation of estimates, is reduced by: 830 000 from NOK 5830000 to NOK 5000000 2686 gravitational assistance 70 gravitational allowances, estimate appropriations, are increased by: 9 600 000 from NOK 181,400000 to NOK 191000000 2711 Specialist health services, etc. 70 Specialist assistance, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 1920000000 to NOK 1925000000 71 Psychological assistance is increased by: 6000000 from NOK 287000000 to NOK 293000000 72 Dental treatment, reduced by: 80 500000 from NOK 2 507 000 to NOK 2 426 500000 76 Private laboratories and X-ray institutes shall be increased by: 38 800000 from NOK 891200000 to NOK 930000 2751 Medicinal products n.e.c. 70 Medicinal products, increased by 370 100000 from NOK 10 139 900000 to NOK 10 510000000 72 Medical consumables are reduced by: 63 500000 from NOK 203 500000 to NOK 1940000000 2752 Reimbursement of self-payment 70 Self-proprietary cap 1, reduced by: 40,000,000 from NOK 5000000 to NOK 4 960000000 71 Self-proprietary cap 2, reduced by: 62 600 000 from NOK 1067 600 000 to NOK 1005 000 2755 Health services in municipalities etc. 62 Remuneration scheme physiotherapists, may be used under heading 71, reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 370000000 to NOK 368000000 70 General medical care is reduced by: 40,000,000 from NOK 4845000000 to NOK 4805000000 71 Physiotherapy, may be used under heading 62, is increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 1 195000000 to NOK 1225000000 72 midwifery, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 61000000 to NOK 60000000 73 Chiropractor therapy, reduced by 1000000 from NOK 150000000 to NOK 149000000 75 Logopedic and orthopaedic treatments are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 142000000 to NOK 141000000 2756 Other health services 70 Health services in other EEA countries are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 25000000 to NOK 24000000 71 Health services abroad etc. , increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 4450000000 to NOK 460000 72 Health services to non-residents, etc. , is reduced by: 17,000,000 from NOK 210000000 to NOK 193000000 2790 Other health measures 70 Contributions, reduced by 5000000 from NOK 235000000 to NOK 230000000 3225 Basic training measures 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, reduced by: 65 399 000 from NOK 190 160 000 to NOK 124 761 000 3334 Film and media applications 2 Revenue from missions shall be reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 11 937,000 to NOK 8 937,000 3440 Police Directorate - the Police and Len’s Seat 2 Reimbursements, etc. , increased by: 40,000,000 from NOK 339 604000 to NOK 379 604000 5 Staff nursery is reduced by: 3147 000 from NOK 5447 000 to NOK 290000 6 Fee — Foreign affairs, increased by: 5848 000 from NOK 200 377 000 to NOK 206 225 000 3456 Emergency Communications Directorate 2 Reimbursements of operating costs shall be increased by: 761,000 from NOK 40 253 000 to NOK 41 014 000 3 Reimbursements of special operating expenditure - services and products, increased by: 9 926,000 from NOK 63 756 000 to NOK 73 682 000 4 Reimbursements of major equipment acquisitions and maintenance are increased by: 82 737 000 from NOK 445000 to NOK 83 182 000 3490 Directorate for Foreign Affairs 3 Travel expenses for refugees to and from abroad, ODA-approved expenditure, are reduced by: 248 000 from NOK 17 562 000 to NOK 17 314 000 4 Asylum recipients, ODA-approved expenditure, are reduced by: 183 661,000 from NOK 1374 310000 to NOK 1 190 649 000 3496 Residence of refugees and measures for immigrants Add User-ID Succeeded Integration grants for transfer refugees, ODA-approved expenditure, are increased by: 18 399 000 from NOK 251,326 000 to NOK 269,725000 2 Specific grant for the settlement of lone minor refugees, ODA-approved expenditure, is increased by: 415 479 000 from NOK 154 723 000 to NOK 570 202 000 3497 Norwegian and community education for adult immigrants Add User-ID Succeeded Norwegian receipt training, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 29 549 000 from NOK 85 198 000 to NOK 55 649 000 3510 Ministry Security and Service Organisation 2 Miscellaneous income is reduced by: 273,000 from NOK 21 501000 to NOK 21 228 000 3531 Royal property Add User-ID Succeeded Miscellaneous income is reduced by: 40000 from NOK 40000 to NOK 0 3595 State Charts, object lighting and national geographical infrastructure 3 Co-financing shall be reduced by: 6000000 from NOK 270,952 000 to NOK 264,952 000 3614 Housing loan scheme of the State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Fee income, loans, is reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 28000000 to NOK 24000000 90 Repayment of loans shall be reduced by: 3,300,000 from NOK 18 40000000 to NOK 15 10000000 3635 Wages and salaries, etc. 85 The imposition of an error in the payment of expected wages and salaries is increased by: 200000 from NOK 200000 to NOK 400000 3642 Petroleum control 3 Charges for supervision shall be reduced by: 14,000,000 from NOK 80 980000 to NOK 66 980000 3720 Directorate for Health 2 Miscellaneous income is reduced by: 19 241,000 from NOK 37 746 000 to NOK 18 505 000 4 Fee revenue shall be reduced by: 9 467 000 from NOK 44 013 000 to NOK 34 546 000 5 Health services to non-residents, etc. , is reduced by: 195 000 from NOK 64 805000 to NOK 64 610 000 6 Guest builder for fixed doctors, awarded with: [[NY]] 80,000,000 3732 Regional health establishments 86 Operating credits shall be increased by: 80000000 from NOK 5170000000 to NOK 5970000000 3747 State Radiation Protection 2 Miscellaneous revenue, by [[NY]] 19 241,000 4 Fee income, granted by [[NY]] 8,467,000 3750 National Agency for Medicinal Products 4 Registration fee shall be reduced by: 9 520,000 from NOK 121 642,000 to NOK 112 122 000 3847 EU Youth Programme Add User-ID Succeeded Grants from the European Commission shall be increased by: 1,245,000 from NOK 264 000 to NOK 369 000 3856 Childcare centre for lone minor asylum seekers 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, reduced by: 504 800000 from NOK 723 548 000 to NOK 218 748 000 3871 Equality and non-discrimination 1 Miscellaneous revenue, by [[NY]] 5,310,000 3900 Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries 86 periodic penalty payment, by [[NY]] 10000 3904 The Brønn Island Registers Add User-ID Succeeded Fee revenue shall be increased by: 26 500000 from NOK 473 512 000 to NOK 500 012 000 3950 Management of state ownership 87 Deposit guarantee scheme, Export finance ASA, is granted by [[NY]] 30,700,000 4100 Ministry of Agriculture and Food 40 Sale of property, by: [[NY]] 637 000 4400 Ministry of Climate and Environment 50 Recovery of loss funds from the State Environment Fund, granted by: [[NY]] 37 600 000 4420 Directorate for the Environment 7 Fees, allowance system, are reduced by: 3 220 000 from NOK 11 344 000 to NOK 8 124 000 4602 Financial supervision 3 The procedural fee shall be increased by: 500000 from NOK 10 370000 to NOK 10 870000 4605 Directorate for Financial Management Add User-ID Succeeded Economic services are increased by: 23 400000 from NOK 49 600 000 to NOK 73000000 4610 Customs duties 85 Infringement fee shall be increased by: 10000000 from NOK 7000000 to NOK 17000000 4618 Tax receipts 87 Traffic penalties shall be increased by: 5000000 from NOK 70000000 to NOK 75000000 88 Delay fee, Accounting Register, is increased by: 52,000,000 from NOK 248000000 to NOK 300000 89 Infringement fee shall be reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 13000000 to NOK 10000000 4710 Defence and new buildings and new installations 47 Sale of property, increased by: 360 600 000 from NOK 269 425000 to NOK 630 025 000 4720 Joint management and command apparatus Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 13382,000 from NOK 107 247 000 to NOK 120 629 000 4725 Joint institutions and receipts under the Defence Staff Add User-ID Succeeded Revenues are reduced by: 6,605,000 from NOK 24,622 000 to NOK 18,017 000 4731 Army Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 63 993 000 to NOK 93 993 000 4760 Defence and major acquisitions and maintenance Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 57,593,000 from NOK 29 750 000 to NOK 87 343 000 45 Large new acquisitions, granted by [[NY]] 98 156 000 4791 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 69 083,000 from NOK 838 289 000 to NOK 907 372 000 4810 Oil Directorate 2 Mission and cooperation revenue shall be reduced by: 8,000,000 from NOK 124,625000 to NOK 116,625000 5309 Random income 29 Miscellaneous, incremented by 200000000 from NOK 150000000 to NOK 350000000 5310 State Loan Fund for Education 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, increased by: 230000 from NOK 22 350000 to NOK 24 700000 29 Appointment fee shall be reduced by: 5,572,000 from NOK 23 811000 to NOK 18 239 000 89 Pure fees shall be reduced by: 2,292,000 from NOK 105,417 000 to NOK 103,125 000 90 Reduced loans and interest payable are reduced by: 395 291,000 from NOK 10 051 888 000 to NOK 9 656 597 000 93 Conversion of training loans into scholarships is reduced by: 90 880,000 from NOK 6 335 577 000 to NOK 6 244 697 000 5325 Innovation Norway 50 Return from a nationwide innovation scheme is increased by: 26 200000 from NOK 32 500000 to NOK 58 700000 51 Recovery of funds for loss and risk relief, seed funds, by: [[NY]] 67 125 000 91 Returned capital, seed funds, is increased by: 148 900 000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 158 900 000 5351 Transfer from Norway’s Bank 85 Transfer, increased by 26,000,000 from NOK 17 700000000 to NOK 17 726000000 5440 Direct economic involvement of the country in the petroleum industry 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue 139 800000000 2 Operating expenditure -26 800000000 3 Expenses of exploration and field development -1 500000000 4 Depreciation -23 500 000 000 5 Interest on the capital of the country -3700 000 000 Syd 84 300000000 30 Depreciation reduced by: 1 900 000 000 from NOK 25 40000000 to NOK 23 50000000 5445 State-owned buildings 39 Provisions for investment purposes are increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 1029 976 000 to NOK 129 976 000 5491 Depreciation of the capital of the State in the course of its business operations 30 Depreciation is increased by: 83 480 000 from NOK 1353 888 000 to NOK 1437 368 000 5501 Taxes on wealth and income 70 Excise duty, taxes on wealth, etc. , is reduced by: 21,000,000 from NOK 54 040000000 to NOK 54 019000000 72 Community taxes are reduced by: 136,000,000 from NOK 184,027000000 to NOK 183,891000000 5571 Sectoral taxes under the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs 70 Petroleum control – sector fee, increased by: 14,000,000 from NOK 85 040000 to NOK 99 040000 5572 Sectoral taxes under the Ministry of Health and Welfare 74 Supervisory fee, reduced by: 3770 000 from NOK 3770 000 to NOK 0 5577 Sectoral charges under the Ministry of Transport 74 Sectoral charges Coastal works are reduced by: 6 100000 from NOK 789 800000 to NOK 783 700000 5607 Interest of the housing loan scheme in the State pension fund 80 Interest is reduced by: 33,000,000 from NOK 1075000000 to NOK 1042000000 5617 Interest of the State Loan Fund for Education 80 Interest is reduced by: 33 992,000 from NOK 3729 047 000 to NOK 3695 055000 5618 Shares in Posten Norge AS 85 Dividends are reduced by: 120,000,000 from NOK 120000000 to NOK 0 5625 Interest and dividends from Innovation Norway 80 Interest on loans from government funds shall be increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 90000000 to NOK 140000000 81 The interest margin, the innovation loan scheme, is reduced by: 4,400,000 from NOK 30000000 to NOK 25 600 000 85 Dividends, the Low Risk Loan Facility, are increased by: 52 600 000 from NOK 105000000 to NOK 157 600 000 86 Dividends from investment funds for North-West Russia and Eastern Europe are reduced by: 500000 from NOK 500000 to NOK 0 5631 Shares in AS Vinmonopolet 85 The State’s surplus share is increased by: 42 800000 from NOK 32000000 to NOK 74 800000 5652 Landskog SF - interest and dividends 80 Interest is increased by: 740000 from NOK 2060000 to NOK 2180000 85 Dividends are increased by: 37 400000 from NOK 16000000 to NOK 53 400000 5656 Shares in companies under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries 85 Dividends are increased by: 2,288 800,000 from NOK 13 412 300000 to NOK 15 701 100000 5680 Statnett SF 85 Dividends are reduced by: 16,000,000 from NOK 366000000 to NOK 350000000 5701 Miscellaneous income 71 Reimbursement in the event of occupational injury shall be increased by: 83 800000 from NOK 937 440000 to NOK 1021 240 000 73 Reimbursement by contributors shall be reduced by: 25,000,000 from NOK 250000000 to NOK 225000000 88 Assistive Technology Centres, etc. , is reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 65000000 to NOK 63000000 5704 State guarantee for claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy 70 Dividends are reduced by: 40,000,000 from NOK 220000000 to NOK 180000000 5705 Reimbursement of daily allowances 70 Reimbursement of daily allowances, State guarantee in the event of bankruptcy, shall be reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 30000000 to NOK 27000000 ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e71944	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-10, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the share of pedagogy and practice in the new master’s courses for teachers.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up accommodation schemes for teachers and school leaders to improve their ability to get up-to-date and relevant experience from other parts of the education system and the labour market.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to make coding/programming part of the contents of the school and to ensure that all students have experience in this during primary school.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the actual expenditure of the counties in order to conduct the Privatist Examination and to assess the level of the current fee on the basis of the fact that the fee will only be paid for this purpose.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a report on the link between vocational training and working life.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to establish a multi-teaching agreement between county and regional employment.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider amending the existing VAT exemption for electronic news services in the 2018 government budget, which will also include the depth/nisje journalism and the sale of individual items.’ [[VAT § 6-2]] Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to strengthen access to venture capital for growth enterprises’. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to present a long-term comprehensive plan by the government budget for 2018 at the latest, in order to continue the work of setting up a re-banking bank to ensure a permanent re-banking of salmon fisheries in this area.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72004	There is a vote on proposal No. 102, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to maintain the obligation of activity and presentation and to strengthen it by following the recommendations of the Skjeie Committee for changes, and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with a case to this effect.’ The Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72021	There is a vote on proposal No. 103, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government immediately requests the imposition of standing permission for killing on the wolf in all grazing priority areas.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72037	There is a vote on proposal No. 105, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is requesting a differentiated landing fee for the purposes of the short-distance network, with a view to its introduction in the context of the 2018 State Budget.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72054	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 107 and 108, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 107 sounds: ‘The Government requests the continuation of the interest-rate compensation scheme for school buildings and swimming facilities, as well as ensuring that the guidelines for applying for tipping funds provide the municipalities with sufficient financial space for the construction and maintenance of swimming facilities, so that all students achieve the skill objectives set for swimming and life-saving training in primary schools.’ Proposal No. 108 sounds: ‘The size requests the Government for the year 2017 to increase the number of allowances refugees through the UN ETS by 1500 and to increase the number by 500 through the European Relocalisation Mechanism.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72078	There is a vote on proposal No. 106, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for legislative proposals to strengthen the Working Environment Act on the basis of the following points: - the definition of permanent employment must ensure that the employee has a real predictability of work, income and working time and must clearly establish that it is the employer who bears the risk of non-employment; - the contractual working time shall be in accordance with the employer's expected labour requirements. No access to a permanent contract of employment with lower job breaks than that combined with a contract of employment. - No extension of temporary employment of the manning industry.» The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72102	There is a vote on proposal No. 109, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Chap. 2421, Item 70 and item 95 are proposed in aggregate at NOK 134 800000 and are amended to allow the State to release these funds to smaller seed funds so that local/regional investment funds can apply for a sum equivalent to that which they may raise from private capital. These local/regional investment funds shall be actively managed and managed by a responsible board. There shall be symmetry of losses and returns between the country and the private investors. Item 51 Loss provision seed seed fund 46 400’;» The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72123	There is a vote on proposal No. 110, from the Socialist Left Party. «The government is asked to propose to amend the Party Act in such a way that the obligation, and the time-limits for reporting contributions above NOK 10000 according to the fourth paragraph of Section 18 of the Act, also apply in non-voting states.» The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72140	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of C, XV. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72159	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left proposal No 4, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party proposal No 5, from Social Violence Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party and the Left the proposals No 6-8, from Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 6-8, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all consumers are able to make cash settlements with all public enterprises in Norway’.» Sales No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all consumers are able to settle cash in any settlement of services provided by public enterprises in Norway’.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asked to amend legislation to avoid paying fees for deposits and withdrawals of cash in and to banks where you are a customer.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72201	There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the government to secure the right to pay in cash.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72218	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to consider intensifying the bank’s obligation to receive cash from customers and to make deposits available to customers in the form of cash.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72233	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that consumers' right to make cash settlements is respected under Section 38 of the Financial Contracts Act.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals for tightening up and clarifying Section 38 of the Financial Contracts Act in order to strengthen the consumer’s right to make cash settlements.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a case to the Storting on cash as a means of payment in Norway, including developments in consumer availability and bank fee practices, as well as the impact it could have on privacy and social protection if cash is removed as a compulsory means of payment in Norway.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72275	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by members of the Presidency, Olemic Thommessen and Ingerd Schou the proposals No 3-5, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No 6-9, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 10 and 11, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 12-14, from Ola Elvesuen on behalf of the Left In order to reduce the number of votes cast, the President, after convening with the proposers, will propose a reunited voting order on the recommendation for a vote. In this case, it will mean that all parties will support the vote recommendation when the minority proposals may have fallen. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against a party on a later occasion. – No objections have been raised to this, and we are moving forward like this. There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The President is asked to make proposals to amend the Rules of Procedure so as to set a fixed time for voting, e.g. at 1 p.m. 3 p.m. on days of meeting or of normal voting at the beginning of the following day after a matter has been debated in Stortinget.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72312	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Council asks the Presidency to investigate a lobby register for rapid deployment.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72329	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13, from the left. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Rules of Procedure of the Storting shall be amended as follows: § 14 nr. 6 is replaced by the following: Judicial committee: cases of justice, criminal law, police, other judicial purposes, immigration, civil protection, justice, general administrative law, criminal law, procedural law, general civil law and communications from the national institution for human rights and other matters relating to the activities of the institution.’;» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Rules of Procedure of the Storting shall be amended as follows: § 14 nr. 8 is replaced by the following: Municipal and administrative committee: matters relating to municipal administration, regional and district policies, framework grants to municipalities and county municipalities, integration policies, housing, building matters, national minorities, Sami issues other than the rules on elections to the Sameting, matters relating to the organisation and scope of government administration, the common administration of the state, government personnel policy, including remuneration, royal house appropriations and party support.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72359	There is a vote on proposal No. 14 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Rules of Procedure of the Storting shall be amended as follows: Section 25 Meetings of the Committee shall be replaced by the following: The meetings of the Committee shall be open to the public. Nevertheless, the Committee may, acting by a normal majority, decide that the meeting shall take place in whole or in part in the case of closed doors. A member of the Committee may require that an open meeting be interrupted in order for the Committee to consider whether the meeting is to be held in closed doors. The Committee may only deal with confidentiality-related information for closed doors. It shall not be possible to reproduce opinions given by other members of the Committee in an closed meeting.’;» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72380	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6-8, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Rules of Procedure of the Storting shall be amended as follows: § 14 nr. 4 is replaced by the following: Financial Committee: matters of economic policy, property and debt management, financial administration, financial markets, accounts and auditing, revenue, taxes, duties and duties of the people. Whether the treatment of the State budget and the national budget refers to § 43.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Rules of Procedure of the Storting shall be amended as follows: § 14 nr. 8 is replaced by the following: Municipal and administrative committee: matters relating to municipal administration, regional and district policies, framework grants to municipalities and county municipalities, immigration policy, housing, building matters, regional planning, national minorities, Sami issues other than the rules on elections to the Sameting, matters relating to the organisation and scope of government administration, the common administration of the state, government personnel policy including remuneration and party support. ‘... Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Rules of Procedure of the Storting shall be amended as follows: § 14 nr. the first sentence of the first paragraph is replaced by the following: Control and Constitutional Committee: Constitutions, electoral laws and appropriations for the Grand Duchy and the Royal House.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72420	There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Rules of Procedure of the Storting shall be amended as follows: § 14 nr. 3 is replaced by the following: Family and Culture Committee: Issues relating to family, children and youth, equality between women and men, consumer matters, including matters relating to debt regime, church, religious and life views, and cultural matters.» The Left and the Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72441	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Rules of Procedure of the Storting shall be amended as follows: § 14 nr. point 9(e) is replaced by the following: e) communications from the Ombudsman’s Office for Defence and other matters relating to the name activities; Points (e) and (f) of the Recommendation shall become (f) and (g)’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Rules of Procedure of the Storting shall be amended as follows: § 14 nr. 12 is replaced by the following: Foreign and Defence Committee: Foreign policy issues, military defence, development assistance, issues of Norwegian interest in Svalbard or in other polar regions, and – in general – issues relating to agreements between the Norwegian State and other States or international organisations.’.» The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72477	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Rules of Procedure of the Storting shall be amended as follows: § 14 nr. 7 is replaced by the following: Education and research committee: matters relating to education and research, including the coordination of research policies and research for agriculture, fisheries and business.» The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72498	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the members of the presidency, Olemic Thommessen and Ingerd Schou. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second and third sentences of the first paragraph of Section 15 of the Rules of Procedure shall be replaced by the following: A third of the members of the Committee may then decide that the Committee should consider such a matter. The Committee may carry out further administrative studies which are deemed necessary for this purpose. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72827	There is a vote on the Presidentship's appointment to A, Section 14, No. 2 and § 14 nr. 8 on the location of the area of regional planning. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72841	A new third and fourth sentence is added to Section 27 of the third paragraph. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72855	It is contested over the presidential position of A, in the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 52. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72869	The remainder of the presidency's position shall be voted on to A, I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72879	There's a vote about the presidency's position on B.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72894	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 2-6, by Geir Inge Lien, on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 3 and 6 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the response time requirements – from the police receiving notification of an emergency mission at the time the first patrol is in place – apply to 100 per cent of the cases.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the increase to two police officers per thousand inhabitants is implemented in all police districts and to set out a plan for this to happen.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an assessment of the coordination of the police’s central operating centres in Oslo.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72931	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Four and five from the Center Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that each bilgeman’s office has a man-of-the-art man-man and a sufficient man-of-the-art to perform its duties.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the government to stop the centralisation of passport printing and to ensure a high level of capacity for good resolution’.» The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72955	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. «The government is asking the police to produce and present a document to all local authorities as requested by the Stortinget in Innst as soon as possible. 306 S.11.2.4 under ‘A promise to the inhabitants’. [[2014-2015]] The document will provide citizens with information on what they get and what a ‘closer police’ will mean in practice for their community. However, if a municipality actively states that they do not want such a document, the police do not have to present it to the municipality.’;» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e72984	Behind the setting is the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced support for the vote. The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e73007	Behind the setting is the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party and Christian People's Party. The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced support for the vote. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-21.ana.ud421e73192	We've come to the end of the 161th Grand Prix, the fourth and last of this parliamentary term. It's been four years. There have been a total of 382 meetings in Stortinget during the period. The government has promoted 785 cases for Stortinget and made 40 presentations. The representatives, for their part, have promoted 535 proposals for representatives, the government has responded to 240 interviews and the committees have given 1621 opinions. The representatives have so far asked over 5,700 written questions, 1,093 questions have been asked in the ordinary Questionnaire, and there have been 566 main questions in the oral Questionnaire. A particular feature of this parliamentary term has been a sharp increase in the number of request decisions, mainly as a result of our having a minority government. Over the last four years, the size has taken 1,056 request decisions. Since it is the last ordinary grand meeting in this session and this parliamentary term, the President will take the opportunity to thank the representatives, the government, employees of the Stortinget, the press department and everyone else who has their daily work related to the Stortinget, for a good cooperation, and at the same time all wish for a really good summer. The President will ask the representatives to sign the minutes submitted. So today's map is finished, and I'm going to declare it 161th big for the end. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
