ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e42	The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For West Agder County: Bene density Limmesand Hellestøl For Troms County: Bjarne Rohde From 11 December to 14 December, in order to attend the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Washington, an application has been submitted by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Representatives for leave of Mr Erlend Wiborg. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Rowena von Ohle, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e75	The representative, Ole André Myhrvold, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e80	On behalf of the representatives of Marit Arnstad, Sandra Borch, Nils T. Bjørke and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative on amendments to the Energy Act § 4-7 on functional separation requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e85	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e103	The matter being dealt with here has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. There have been no objections to the President's proposals. – It is then deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e108	The size has been assigned one task related to the Nobel Prize, and it is known to appoint a competent committee. The work of the Nobel Committee on the selection of prize recipients shall be carried out entirely independently of the Stortinget or the Norwegian authorities. It's a basic premise that we have to remember, and there's reason to remember and protect. In the past 40 years, both members of the government and representatives of the Nobel Committee were appointed. Since then, the Stortinget has increasingly wanted to stress the Nobel Committee's independent position by distanceing the Storing from the Government and appointing its members. In 1937, the Stortinget decided that if a member of the Nobel Committee was appointed as a member of the Government during his term of office, or if a member of the Government was elected to the Committee, he would resign as long as he was a State Council member. Since then, no government council has been elected to the Nobel Committee, but we have several examples of members of the Nobel Committee being appointed as state councils and thus not meeting in the Nobel Committee. Since 1978, only three standing representatives have been elected to the Nobel Committee, Odvar Nordli in 1984 and Thorbjørn Jagland and Ågot Valle in 2008. For all three of them, they had renounced re-election the following year. With the decision of the Storting last Tuesday that the Nobel Committee is not open to the election of poachers and alternates, the Stortinget has further underlined the desire for a distance between the Nobel Committee and has crushed a long-standing principle. It has also been customary in Stortinget to respect the party groups' right of nomination for different positions. The position of the Electoral Committee to be discussed here today shows that the Progress Party has proposed a candidate who is a representative of the Stortinget. The majority, all except the Advancement Party, point out that this is contrary to the decision of the Storting on Tuesday, and that as a consequence in this round only one member is elected for six years, and that the current Chairman of the Nobel Committee, Berit Reiss-Andersen, is being re-elected. I assume that the minority, the Progress Party, presents its own proposal. The majority write in the vote that they are prepared to vote on the election of another member for six years if a candidate is proposed that is in line with the Storting decision last Tuesday. Former Head of the Nobel Committee, Kaci Kullmann Five, died in February 2017. Her term of office was out of 2020. A Joint Committee therefore proposes that an additional selection be made here and that the current composition of the Storting should be taken into account. The Committee proposes that Anne Enger be elected as a member of the Committee for the remainder of Kaci Kullmann Five's term of office. An overall committee also proposes three alternates: Kristin Clemet, Inger Skjelsbæk and Sofie Högestøl. The majority also decided on Tuesday to ask the Presidency to assess whether there are other factors to be taken into account in the assessment of who should not be elected members of the Nobel Committee, including the limitations that should be attached to senior management positions in international organisations, and that this investigation should be available by the end of 2018. The presidency will now begin with this, and I imagine it will happen in close contact with the party groups. I think we all have a common goal of ensuring maximum independence for the Nobel Committee. The Progress Party has also proposed that the Stortinget should look at all the elections that the Stortinget is making, both to the Nobel Committee and to the Norwegian Bank’s representation. The Presidency will give the Storting a position on how this proposal for a representative should be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e133	Initially, I can see that there has never been a regulation in the Grand Duchy for who can sit and who can be elected to the Nobel Committee, but when the name of our candidate for the Nobel Committee became known, an urgent legislative procedure had to be taken to avoid Carl I. Hagen being elected to the Nobel Committee. We find that very unfortunate. It is a poor form of proceedings, and it would have been much better if a little time had been spent investigating a law on eligibility both for the Nobel Committee and for the other committees and committees to which the Stortinget appoints members. So to the setting. We consider the minority proposal, and we want our proposal on Carl I. Hagen as a member of the Nobel Committee to be a separate vote, according to Rule 59. Carl I. Hagen is not an alternative to those who are set, and not an alternative to Berit Reiss-Andersen, for the Stortinget will elect two members for six years, not one member, as proposed. We do not want to challenge the right of the Labour Party to elect a member of the Nobel Committee, but we want to assert the right of the Progress Party to do exactly the same. We are voting against I, where there is an election of one member for six years and an additional election of one member, but we want to vote in favour of the other Roma proposals. And so we want a separate, written vote on our minority proposal on Carl I. Hagen as a member of the Nobel Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e142	I assume that the representative Limi will address the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e147	Yes, I'm addressing the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e152	The representative Hans Andreas Limi then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e157	All parties now say that they want to get closer shots between the Nobel Committee and official Norway – between the executive, legislative, and the Nobel Committee and its members. At the same time, it is a little strange that the majority of the Stortinget continues to regard the appointment of the Nobel Committee as a party political exchange, where, in order to avoid Carl I. Hagen today, with a technicality – for which one has every right – only one person is chosen in order to avoid the election of the representative of the Progress Party in the Committee. Red does not want to regard the Nobel Committee as an arena for party political bones. We have our own proposal for a candidate based on the fact that the Stortinget must also assess the suitability of those who are elected to the Committee and whether they will also support them for the purpose of the Peace Prize. You could say a lot about Carl I. Hagen, but that he's a prominent peace fighter, I'm in doubt that most people in our country will put two lines under. He has all his work, among others. helped to create rifts, stigmatise and dig ditches where bridges could be built, and are seen as spectacularly unsuitable as members of the Nobel Committee – in our view. On the other hand, we have a name for a candidate who is not from Red, who is not part of our party, but who is, on the other hand, a very famous peace fighter. His name is Fredrik Heffermehl. He is among the very few in Norway who have gone thoroughly into Alfred Nobel's will, trying to interpret what Nobel really wanted with the Peace Prize in his time, and who have not least a good knowledge of work internationally for disarmament and for peace. We're going to vote against I in the setting. Red wants two candidates elected for six years in today's meeting, and we are promoting proposals on Fredrik Heffermehl as an alternative to Carl I. Hagen. I then take up Red's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e168	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e186	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e202	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e211	In its proposal, the Ministry of Culture proposes a temporary amendment to the Law of 28 August 1992 No. 103 on gambling, etc., that will open up to give the Norwegian Tourist Association a gift on occasion of the 150th anniversary. Since such a gift will affect the statutory key for the profits of Norsk Typing's game, a legislative change here in Stortinget is necessary. Proposal for a temporary amendment to the Money Gambling Act was sent at the hearing of the Government on 8 June 2017 to a number of hearing bodies. Most instances were positive that DNT gets an anniversary gift, and underlined the important work DNT does. However, several hearing bodies are negative in their view that the anniversary gift is financed by a change in the law on gambling, because such a change can create an unfortunate precedent for the future. DNT is the country's largest open-air organisation and facilitates open-air recreation for people of all ages, regardless of membership. The association makes nature available by marking tours, establishing and operating cabins and serving places and by arranging guided tours. Consequently, the special nature of DNT does not create an unforeseeable situation for the other purposes that receive payment from the key. The Ministry proposes that the profit in the current lottery be distributed so that 50 pst. of the surplus is due to DNT in gift, while the remaining 50 pst. is normally distributed according to the second paragraph of Section 10 of the Money Gambling Act. The bill stated that the anniversary grant to DNT should be limited to 15 million. kr. The family and culture committee believes the gift is a great way to value the work DNT does all over the country. DNT is the country’s main outdoor organisation and is a major contributor to the high levels of outdoor participation in Norway. The association has over 300,000 members and 550 cabins, and it was closed down 750,000 duty hours in 2016. The majority of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture refers to the proposition and recommends the Stortinget to take decisions in line with the government's proposal. As rapporteur, I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee. In 2011, the Stortinget took similar decisions to give a gift to the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic and Paralympic Committee on the occasion of their 150th anniversary. The alternatives at the time today were to earmark funds from an ordinary lottery drawing, to carry out an extra trek or to give the gift over the state budget. For technical reasons, it would be most appropriate to implement the funding of the anniversary tribute as part of an ordinary draw. This solution can be implemented within the existing framework in terms of both the structure of premiums, the practical implementation of the draw and the system of commissioners. An additional lottery draw with DNT as the only profit recipient will be resource-intensive, and it will require extensive conversion of Norwegian Typing infrastructure. The right-wing members note that a total of 4 billion have been allocated in 2017. kr for sport, culture and volunteering purposes from the 2016 surplus. The Norwegian Tipping forecast suggests that the 2017 profit for distribution in 2018 could be at the same level or slightly above. We'll estimate with this background that a subtraction of up to 15 million. kr in the anniversary of the DNT will not be noticeable for other beneficiaries of the games in 2018. The fact that part of the revenue from a game is earmarked for DNT could also contribute to increased turnover. On the basis of this, we see no concern that the gift is financed from the funds. In this case, the centre party and SV choose to promote their own proposal saying that the anniversary grant to DNT should be financed differently from through the gambling surplus. However, the challenge with the minority proposals is that they do not promote containment – how the gift is supposed to be funded. It should also be mentioned that none of the two parties has chosen to prioritise the gift in their alternative state budgets. I am pleased that a majority at Stortinget today will contribute to a gift on the occasion of the 150th anniversary of DNT. This will be a very important contribution to a national spice layer in order to continue an important part of Norwegian cultural heritage and to contribute to activity and public health in Norway for future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e234	The Norwegian Tourist Association is an important association for Norway. We're lucky in our beautiful country, because no matter where we live, we're close to nature. We're going to be proud of that, we're going to take care of that, and we're going to use nature, of course. That is why the Tourist Association is important. They do a fantastic job, where volunteers set up. Even I come from Drammen and have worked closely with the Tourist Association. Without the job of the Tourist Association in the Drammen, paths would grow again, fewer would use nature. They're super good at creating new arenas, so that children and future generations learn to use nature. This great job they do all over the country. Therefore, the Workers' Party enjoys a gift on the occasion of the 150th anniversary – it should just be lacking – as a great thank you for the job they do every day. Thank you to all volunteers who use their own leisure time for the community! But what is a major challenge is the government and the Minister of Culture procedure in financing this gift. I think it's both a little sad and a shame that something as nice, important and really deserving as an anniversary gift is to be followed by a debate on unburied funding. This collapse depends on trust when it comes to the distribution of tipping agents. Why? It's because drugs are the community's model for funding sport, culture and volunteering. It's not the Storting's money, it's the community's money. Then those who are involved in owning this model must also be involved in the decisions. My point is that the most important thing is not great election stunts from a state council. That Council of State should also have political grounding for what you do. If you invite me to a party, you should not send the bill to anyone else. If it is a fissile layer, the fissure layer must also be included and determined. It's about respect. We hope and believe that today's Minister of Culture and Future Ministers of Culture, regardless of government formation, takes the criticism seriously. What we grant today is the gift of the Storting, cross-political.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e245	First of all, I must say that the Norwegian Tourist Association celebrates 150 years in 2018. No one disagrees with the fact that the Norwegian Tourist Association is a fantastic organization, the largest Norwegian Outdoors Association, which has given, and continues to give, great experiences, joy and rich natural experiences for several thousand Norwegians, not least my own family. So, of course, the Norwegian Tourist Association should celebrate its anniversary with bragging and bram – it should just be missing. What the central party finds problematic is the government's proposal to make a temporary amendment to the law on gambling in order to finance the anniversary grant of up to 15 million. kr. There are two main aspects of the proposal which have been decisive for the views of the Centre Party in this matter. Firstly, the Central Party disagrees that temporary changes should be made to a law, as proposed by the Government here. In fact, there was a similar change in 2012, when it was given an anniversary gift to the Norwegian Sports Association. It is true that the Center Party at the time supported the proposal, but I would like to stress on behalf of the Center Party that it is unfortunate if a practice is established in which temporary changes are made to the Money Gambling Act each time it is about assigning anniversary gifts to non-governmental organisations. It is said from the Chair that this is a one-off case. Similarly, I would point out that laws should be predictable, not volatile. Then it must also be mentioned on the occasion of the case that cultural life and municipalities have long called for greater equivalency between musical instruments for cultural construction compared to sports facilities. The share of cultural building gambling has been reduced from 135 million. SEK in 2013 to SEK 47 million. in 2017, while measures such as: the gift-enhancing scheme is proposed to be transferred to the funds so as to release money on the ordinary state budget. I am sceptical that more and more posts are being moved from the state budget to the toy. One consequence of this is that more and more people have to compete for these funds, and it is therefore difficult to defend the funding of the anniversary gift as proposed by the government. The other thing that's problematic for the Center Party is that we're going to take from the games, which goes to the distribution to very many small teams and organizations after a given distribution key, and finance one big organization. Many will view it – and so does the Centre Party – as unreasonable, because it will never be possible for the other small organisations to enter a position where they can end up getting that kind of gift from the same pot on a later occasion. It is therefore on a principle basis that the Central Party does not support this bill and, together with the Socialist Left, promotes an alternative proposal, in which we ask the government to find another way of financing the gift rather than taking it from the surplus, which is, of course, quite possible. Gifts are given during the year from the government. I would have liked to see more parties join in on this proposal, so that we made sure that no money was taken from the common pot that will initially benefit the many.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e258	The representative must then address the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e263	Then I take up the proposal I referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e268	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e273	I would like to start by stressing that SV supports giving the Norwegian Tourist Association this anniversary gift, but that we are critical of how the government proposes to finance it all. DNT is very important to make Norwegian nature and outdoor life accessible to people. The voluntary work done every day through popular organisation to mark tours, to maintain the cabins and to provide information on the outdoors shall be very grateful to the entire Norwegian community. Therefore, SV supports giving DNT a real anniversary assignment now that the organisation has been 150 years old. However, the SV share the criticism that has come from several actors in the field, several consultation bodies, on how this is to be financed, namely through the use of the tipper surplus. We see a number of ghastly trends in government policy for the distribution of the capital surplus. Precedence is in the process of creating greater anniversary gifts to be financed from these funds. These funds will support small and medium-sized voluntary teams and associations around the country in their activities, and many other good purposes. The fact that these funds are now going to finance anniversary gifts for larger organisations, we are very sceptical about it. There may be an undermining of the scheme. But it is not just anniversary gifts that are to be financed from the ticking funds. An increasing number of other schemes are also being transferred to these funds. Last year, the entire Freefonds were transferred from the State budget to be financed exclusively by the funds. There was uncertainty about Freefonds, and there was probably a purpose in finding money from the profits to Norwegian Tipping. At the latest in the 2018 state budget, the gift-enhancing scheme for the cultural sector is being moved away from the budget and into the means of gambling – yet another good purpose in finding funds for it. While the cultural budget is on a real decline in the government's proposal for a state budget, the Norwegian Tipping surplus is increasingly being pushed. There's a development SV doesn't want to be on. The government itself must take responsibility for finding funding for anniversary gifts and all the other good purposes. That is why we are asking the government to find other ways to fund the anniversary gift of DNT. Whether there should be miscellaneous items or by setting up extra moves, we won't decide, it's government's responsibility, but we want to defend a principle that the games should go to local voluntary activity. The explanation of vote is that SV votes in favour of proposal No. 1, but substantially vote in favour of the suspension, with the critical remarks on how the funding is implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e288	I think it's great that we can join in giving an anniversary gift to the Norwegian Tourist Association's 150th anniversary. It's a great way to appreciate the amazing work the Norwegian Tourist Association is doing. It is a voluntary organisation that holds more than 300,000 members, which owns 550 cabins, and only has 750,000 duty hours in 2016. It's a fantastic organization, which means so much to people's outdoor joys and natural joys. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party is also critical of this way of giving a gift. We added an amount to such a gift into our alternative budget. We think it would have been a more neat way to do it. We didn't get through to that. That is why the Christian People's Party agrees with the proposal as it is now, but we are also in a critical remark. We don't want it to be this way of giving anniversary gifts. We don't want to create precedents for this way of dealing with such things. It was done in 2012. It is interesting to read the setting of the case in 2012 and see which parties were involved in handling it that way, and which parties were very critical and were not involved. The one who was most critical was the one who is the Minister of Culture today, who wrote his own comment that they would come back to age to give such a gift. We agree to deal with it this way too, but will only emphasize again strongly that making such temporary changes to the laws in order to give a gift does not create predictability. And once again, it must be stressed that this must not create precedent. It is written in the setting that Stortinget considers this to be the gift of Stortinget to the Norwegian Tourist Association. We have to be so honest and say that it's more voluntary gift to the Norwegian Tourist Association, all the time it's other non-governmental organisations that have to use their share of the profits to contribute to such a gift. I'm absolutely sure the volunteer organizations think it's very nice to contribute that way, but I think we should handle these things in a different way, and I really hope that we avoid getting into such a situation the next time it's a volunteer organisation that celebrates an anniversary, and that we'll find the opportunity to give such a gift over the ordinary budget. The Christian People's Party is involved in this proposal, but with the critical remarks we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e301	In 2018, one of Norway’s largest and most traditional organisations, the Norwegian Tourist Association, is 150 years old. The Tourist Association is our main outdoor organisation. It gives the Norwegian people across the country access to experiences in nature and physical activity, while preserving the cultural heritage through all the huts in the mountain home and the Norwegian tradition of inspiring us to go on tour. When such an important organization, which has such a large place in the hearts of many Nordics, is 150 years old, the government believes it is entirely in place that it is honored with an anniversary gift to support the positive work done by the organisation. I am pleased that a unanimous committee supports the government that this gift is a great way to value the work that DNT does all over the country. The proposition proposes that a change be made to the Gambling Act, which opens up to 50 pst. of the profits of one lottery draw in 2018 may go to the anniversary gift. I record that someone believes that the gift could have been funded in a different way than through this change, but I stress that when it was about this, we looked at previous practices. We saw what the government consisting of the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the UK thought was the best way to do it in 2012, when the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic and Paralympic Committee were to have a similar anniversary present, and that was to use funds in the same way that we are doing now. The government thought that we could look at the same model as the red-green ones did, and I'm glad that the whole Storting ends up about it today. I consider it both natural and desirable that the anniversary gift is just financed by one of the Norwegian Typing lottery drawings. The reason is the same as the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV had in their time – that the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic and Paralympic Committee had a special position in the Norwegian community. The government believes that the Tourist Association too has. Having said that, I respect the fact that the other profit recipients feel the need for predictability. The proposal under consideration today means that the sum to be allocated over the key is reduced by the amount corresponding to the gift to DNT. However, I would like to stress that the size of Norsk Tipping's surplus varies from year to year, and there are no recipients who can afford to get a fixed sum. But as the majority of the committee points out, the anniversary gift will be less than half a percent of Norwegian Typing's total profit. It's a very small amount in relation to their total profit, at least based on the numbers of the year last. So in other words, the gift will be a very positive grant to the Tourist Association, while it will not have a particularly noticeable negative effect on the other profit recipients. It would have been a completely different discussion if this had hit other, kind of small, organizations very much, but it wouldn't do that very much. So I thank you for agreeing to the proposal in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e315	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e320	I was not a big-time representative in 2012 when the same kind of legislative change was adopted. For me, this is a principle matter. I wonder how the council then thought about the principal here, versus how she now thinks. Has she changed her position, or is it just a very simple solution when you look at how to finance this, that we look at how the others did it? Does the Council of State see the principle and problem in that one takes something that is really to be distributed into very many small ones, and gives to one big one? No one else will be able to receive the same treatment on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e327	If it had been the case that the other organisations had been particularly affected, it would of course have been a different assessment. But it was precisely the assessment we made that these are two organisations, both the Norwegian Sports Association and the Norwegian Tourist Association, which have special positions in the Norwegian community. It was obvious that it was nearby to see how it was done the last time, when the Senter party itself put into government. I think that if this is basically very challenging for the Center Party and they don't want to be involved, but think that it should have been part of a government budget funding, it would probably have been natural that the Center Party had prioritised it in its alternative budget – if you had thought that this was very important?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e334	I have to say that when we now discuss fundamental things here and have a proposal – before we adopt our budget – that we believe that there are ways to find money for this gift, it is a call for the government. It's a call to the minister to go another way. I am absolutely sure that if she wanted to, she could find that money, find another post. That being said, I'm also a little bit concerned about another thing. The sports association was one case, this case concerns the Norwegian Tourist Association. Is there absolutely no one else who will qualify for such a gift in the future, the Council of State believes?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e341	It is true at Stortinget that if a party believes that it is important to do something in another way, especially in a matter where one believes that the government is giving the wrong priority – we do believe that this is right, the central party believes that it should have been government budget-funded – it is very strange that it is not important enough for the central party to prioritise it in its own state budget. There's not 150 million. kr, as far as I can see. If you've thought that this was very problematic in principle, maybe the Central Party should show that there were other ways to do it. I can't stand here and shoot what later cultural ministers or I as Minister of Culture will do if an anniversary of a large and popular organization in Norway had to appear. We'll get that decision when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e348	We can see in the reasons of the Council of State that previous practices were taken into account to find the best model. However, some of the points made in the critical comments submitted to the Committee and in the hearing opinions are precisely that no precedent should be set. That's exactly why it's important to highlight this principle in this room today, because it looks like it's about to be set a precedent, if that's the reason it's been done before. What else can the precedent mean? Maybe 0.5 pst. Or below is little right now, but if this becomes the precedent, it can quickly become more. If you take all of the other arrangements that are being moved into the tipped surplus, it's going to be even less money. Then I just have to point out the logical flaw in the rationale here, when the state council's reason is that it was done... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e355	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e360	I guess if someone starts to create a precedent, it's the one that does it for the first time. Then I just want to remind you that it was with the Swedish government that this was done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e365	As I was about to explain, the logical flaw is obvious when the Council of State itself was critical of the way it was done in 2012, and now indicates that the best way it has been done before was in 2012, precisely because it is not to be set precedent. I have to ask the council again what has changed since then. Why isn't it scary now to create this precedent? What has changed the Council of State’s assessment from 2012 to today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e370	My change may well have been that when I thought it was right that we should get to such a priority and set aside as much money to such a popular organization as DNT is, which has such a great place in our society, it was, of course, on a tight state budget more opportunities to get to this gift, this sum, over the means of tipping. As Minister of Culture, I believe that DNT deserves this gift because they are part of our cultural heritage. This is money to go to a fund that allows the cabins around the mountain cottage, which is very expensive and difficult to maintain, to be preserved. I think DNT is doing such an important job for Norwegian society by doing that, that I wanted to make sure they got the sum that I think they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e377	The Council of State and I fully agree that it is quite appropriate to give such a gift to the Norwegian Tourist Association, which means so much to so many people. It states that this must be regarded as the gift of Stortinget to the Norwegian Tourist Association. Does the Council of State share this view, that it is the Storing and Government that give this gift, or is it the volunteer that in principle gives this gift to the Norwegian Tourist Association?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e385	I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party expresses so much support for what DNT means in Norwegian society, for outdoor life, for the health of people and for the activity, not least – for the preservation of our cultural heritage. Now it is the Storting that makes decisions about the money DNT will receive next year, and the profits from Norwegian Typing are part of it and finance it. As I have said, it is not that the other organizations, especially the small organizations, for which I know that the Christian People's Party is concerned, will be affected. It cannot be produced in such a way that we take from other voluntary, small organisations and give to DNT. [[President clubs]] If it had happened...
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e392	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e399	It is nice that it seems that I can round this shelf to DNT, because it is a pleasure to have such an opportunity to pay tribute to that organisation. There are not many people who have had the opportunity to use the DNT cabins as much as I have done in my professional life, when I have traveled around the country for natural film production. 300,000 Members have had the same occasion. It's a fantastic organization. Not only do they invite to a great hobby, to joy in nature, but they invite to motion, to exercise, in nature's own scenes. Together with other organisations with whom they work closely, such as the Norwegian Free Air Life and the Free Air Councils, they have published several reports on the social benefits of exercise — and in this case exercise out in the open. In fact, their latest report, from Vista Analysis, showed that the social benefit is about 80 billion. NOK this year, so we might have taken this gift to DNT from the health budget. The representative and Mr Hövstegård have presented the proposal from the SV and the Central Party on why we do not support the proposal to use the tipping agents. It's for reasons of principle. To point out that it has been done once before, in 2012 — or perhaps several times — does not do better. I didn't sit in the hall at the time, and I think it sounds like it was wrong at the time too – it must be allowed to say. It's a wrong principle. In fact, a direct allocation from the state budget would have been better. It would have been more tidy, more marked and perhaps a little more effective as a gift than referring to the drugs. It's a better mark of a gift. There had also been no debate here in the hall. Then it would have been a unison tribute. It would have been even better for DNT.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e410	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e426	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e435	The Committee has examined the legislative proposal from the Ministry of Culture not to pay other instalments of the operating grant for 2017 to the Islamic Council of Norway, totalling SEK 650 000. Thank you to the Committee for the quick and effective handling of this matter. The Committee stands together to support the proposal of the Government and therefore agrees that other instalments are not paid to the Islamic Council of Norway. The Committee also supports the release and allocation of funds to other recipients following an application for dialogue actions in the field of vision and life. The Committee has noted that the Ministry has held several meetings and has had dialogue with the Islamic Council of Norway on the role of the organisation as an umbrella organisation and bridge builder, on the organisation’s work on transparency and the conditions for operating grants. In its work, the Committee stressed the overall assessment by the Ministry that there were doubts as to whether the activities and roles of the Islamic Council of Norway as a bridge builder, umbrella organisation and dialogue partner were maintained in such a way that those of the organisation – politicians, authorities and society in general – considered the organisation to be trustworthy. The Committee noted that as early as March 2017, six member organisations of the Islamic Council of Norway expressed concern about developments in the Islamic Council of Norway. On 30 September 2017, four religious communities declared themselves and on 9 October 2017, five additional member organisations announced their withdrawal from the Islamic Council of Norway. The Islamic Council of Norway has thus lost many of its members in recent months, and this is a weakening of the representativeness of the organisation which has a negative impact on the role of a dialogue partner for other religious and life views and public authorities. I am sure that I speak on behalf of the entire committee when I say that it is important that we provide for good faith and life-seeing dialogue in Norway. Good dialogue contributes to a good understanding and understanding of each other’s different religious affiliations and religious traditions. We want an inclusive society that does not experience confrontations, and therefore we should be concerned that the funds that are granted are used for important faith dialogue. The Committee has noted that new important actions and initiatives are in the process of being established in the space following the Islamic Council of Norway. This is why we hope that the Ministry will now receive applications that reflect a variety of measures that are out there and that the funds released can be allocated to new recipients, so that we can ensure a continued good and inclusive religious dialogue in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e450	The Labour Party believes that the Islamic Council should not receive any grants. Recently, the SSB provided new figures showing an increase in the number of members of Muslim religious communities – 135,000 members. The organisation responsible for organising and coordinating has failed. Islamic Council is no longer an umbrella organization, but an organisation characterized by conflict and division. Then they failed. For the undersigned, the last killing was that the Islamic Council chose to hire a woman who used Nicab — yes, Nicab. So the legacy of Islamic counsel is to fight for some of the most anti-female garment that exists. We live in Norway. It's just tragic. Then they have misunderstood their total role. The role of contributing to good integration, of immigrant women up and down and into the labour market, was not important for the Islamic Council. That is why it is good that Stortinget today says that it will not be supported further. It is also known that the Workers' Party wants to make clear demands on Muslim religious communities. We have to be clear on what kind of values we want the Norwegian society to build on. They're going to work on integration. It means no to choral travel and no to social control and religious courts. They're going to report, they're going to open up, and they're going to work closely with child protection, police and local authorities. They shall be clear that migrant women are to learn Norwegian and participate in the labour market, and this shall be repeated and repeated in their premises. The working party is ready to impose tough and clear requirements. We are going to be uncompromising when it comes to our most important values in Norway, which are freedom, democracy and equality. This shall also be an important task for umbrella organisations, which, with the authorities and individual membership organisations, shall ensure that this is followed up in individual mosques and meeting rooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e465	The Progress Party was the first party to call for this aid to cease. This is taxpayers' money, and the Progress Party believes that we should take the utmost seriously what our money is actually being spent on. That's why I want to commend the Minister of Culture and the Department for doing a very thorough job of following up on what many have just expressed a great deal of concern. I think the rapporteur presented the matter quite well. However, there are some things that I feel are important to emphasize in particular, precisely because this should be an organisation that would contribute to dialogue, and that should be a bridge builder. Very many people would say that the Islamic Council of Norway has been quite the opposite. By employing a communications consultant in Nikab, many people felt that not only the feminists, but also the Norwegian values, right in the face, as we say in Bergen. Many felt that when this was done, they simply could not stand for what this organisation was doing. We have seen through the media, and we have seen through various dialogues, that several of the organisations that have been under the Islamic Council of Norway as an umbrella organisation have been very critical and very concerned about the development of the Islamic Council of Norway. As we have seen, several rounds have been initiated, both in the ministry and with the other organisations, to try to find better solutions and get better dialogue. Here we have not been met in any way, and I am very pleased that we are today on the Storting and are taking a settlement with what many people have experienced was very unfair that the state should be involved in financing. In the application submitted by the Islamic Council of Norway in its time, they underlined: ‘In such circumstances where polarisation is increasing, the need for empowerment through dialogue and co-existence is essential. The anchoring of the IRN among Muslims and experience as a tone-setting player in society is essential to contribute to empowerment and nuance the debate, which can often act as stigmatizing and polarising.» But that's exactly what the organisation is criticized for being involved and contributing to, and that's how I think you just have a very good argument at that point as to why the Islamic Council of Norway should not get money from the state. We also see in the treatment that has been, that several of the members – not only in the media but also in other recording rounds – have expressed their dissatisfaction and deep concern about the development of the Islamic Council of Norway. There's a lot about the proposition that came from the government, and the rest of the story we know. Several of them signed up, and fortunately it was that we are here today to adopt something that everyone agrees should not represent the bridge construction alliance in Norway. I just want to thank so many people for pushing into a very important debate, not least a fundamental debate. I am pleased with the debates that are coming in the new year as well, as we are going to deal with a number of questions that are just about what the state is going to give money to in terms of faith and life-seeking cooperation and funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e483	The Islamic Council of Norway, the IRN, has had an important role in our society. They have been a speaker and contact point for the Muslim population in Norway. This is therefore not a joyous day. Because today, when we give the government consent not to pay the other instalments of the operating grant for 2017, it can actually mean the hook at the door of the IRN, an organization that has been an active social actor since 1993. However, it is a reality that the umbrella organisation has not been able to bring together its membership organisations recently. There has been some noise both around and inside the Islamic Council of Norway. It is regrettable that an organisation like IRN is now experiencing a serious crisis of trust. Internal disputes in the IRN have led to the announcement of the umbrella organisation’s own member musik. The cooperation climate between the IRN and the Council of Ministers of the Religious and Life Sciences has also become more difficult over time. The Co-operation Council of Creeding and Living Societies stated at the latest in the autumn that they have had difficulty working with the IRN over several years. Poor communication, lack of trust, lack of understanding and agreement that the Cooperation Council is a joint project of all member organisations, and the IRN's repeated attachment to playing a victim role has made a difference in cooperation. Unfortunately, it seems that the IRN has not listened to these feedbacks, nor has it contributed constructively to correcting the course or correcting this development. The Parties share the assessments of the Governments on this basis and agree not to pay the remaining grant. Of course, I wish we hadn't come into a situation where we have to decide on the proposal presented, because we need organisations that promote dialogue and build bridges to promote understanding and tolerance in our society. In particular, it is necessary at a time when we are witnessing a very sharp and polarizing change of words, hate expressions, threats and attacks that are hate-motivated, as well as stigmatisation of people based on their ethnicity, religion and cultural background. I would like to refer to the fresh report ‘Holdings for Muslims and Jews in 2017’ from the Center for the Study of Holocaust and Life Synonyms, which was presented this week. The findings give cause for concern. The report concludes that negative stereotypes of Muslims are really widespread in the Norwegian community. The total is 34 pst. the population condemns Muslims. The whole 47 pst. The claim ‘Muslims will not be integrated into Norwegian society’ is supported by a total of 42 psts, while 30 psts. agrees with the claim ‘Muslims want to take over Europe’. This is a high percentage. In addition, I have to say that NRK's recent documents on the nynazist environment in the Nordic region are very alarming. This must be combated in all possible ways. Prejudice against and stereotypes of different minorities is a major societal problem. Unfortunately, they live at best. It's not enough to ask people to change attitudes. Collective action and proactive action are required here. Not least, we politicians must lead by example and show the way. Back to the Islamic Council of Norway: there is no doubt that a review of the history of the IRN shows that the organisation has carried out its social mission in a good way. In recent years, however, there has been an unfortunate development, and it seems to be a demanding task for the IRN to regain confidence in its own membership organisations, dialogue partners and the wider community in general. I look forward to the government finding good candidates, preferably as soon as possible, who can take over the role of bridge builder and act as a pooling umbrella organisation for the Muslim community in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e500	This is a sad thing. In the past, the Islamic Council of Norway, the IRN, has played a very important role in facilitating dialogue and cooperation. Therefore, IRN has received an operating grant to be a representative umbrella organisation for Muslim religious communities that can contribute to Muslim coexistence and be a bridge builder and dialogue partner for other religious and life views and public authorities. The importance of this can be illustrated by the fact that Shia and Sunni Muslims in Norway have been gathered in one organisation. It's quite unique. However, in order for the IRN to have such an overall role for dialogue, which is the purpose of this support, the organisation must have trust and legitimacy, both among its own members, membership organisations, other religious and life views and with the authorities. Now we record that this trust and legitimacy is no longer present, which includes, among other things, will become apparent when member organisations have now withdrawn from the IRN by a total of tens of thousands of members because they are concerned about the development of the umbrella organisation. It's a very sad situation. SV is concerned about the requirement to receive support. It is also necessary to start making demands on organisations operating within the framework of faith, vision of life, etc. When an organisation no longer meets the objectives of the support, it can no longer receive the support either. There are many competent organisations and foundations in Norway working with dialogue and bridge building between religious communities. These organisations can benefit from this support, which is why we believe it is better for organisations that can better contribute to an inclusive religious dialogue to apply for these funds. It is important because we live in an age of ever more acute conflicts between the majority and the minority, and where we have a public debate that is marked by the obscene trends in the underflows of our own exchanges. So we need those who can pick up people in this situation, which can be a bridge-building party. I therefore ask the representatives of the SV to vote in favour of the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e513	First of all, I want to commend the Council of State for being courageous in the debate. It's been a hard debate to have, I fully understand, I know this environment relatively well. So all praise to the Council of State, which has taken both the right and the important steps and not least the conflict that has occurred. I agree with very many of the speakers who have been here and said that the Islamic Council of Norway has been important. And they've been historically important. They have existed for about 25 years, and we must remember that they have had many good leaders: Imam Senaid Kobilica, the current representative of the Green Party, Shoaib Sultan, who was Secretary-General there, and not least the first female secretary-general, Lena Larsen, in the 2000s. One thing is the dialogue they have done, which has been important and correct and visible in society, but we must not forget the great effort they put down. Although the caricature struggle had several sides, one side of it was that while Danish imams – at least one imam – and representatives went to the Middle East to whip up the mood against Denmark, representatives from the Muslim environment and the Islamic Council were Norway in the Middle East to mitigate the conflict with Norway. We saw that through the TV shows they had in television channels in the Middle East. So we know that someone we know the name of, Arfan Bhatti, would like to demonstrate against both the one and the other, and also at the time, the Islamic Council of Norway came on the track and said that they did not support this, and they encouraged people not to show up on that demonstration. They even initiated dialogue with the Homo network in their time. You can't say that it's been quite successful all the way, but anyway, they started dialogue with the Homo network to see how you can do this -- not necessarily to change the liturgy, but to see that gays, too, should have the right to live in society, that Muslims too should respect their right to be gay, and that you have to dampen that hate crime. As a result, a number of previous speakers have suggested that they should receive increased support. I myself have been among those who have said that they should receive increased support. But unfortunately, what very many people have contributed to building up over 25 years, an important organisation that Muslims really need – and that the big community needs, because the bit of dialogue is about both needs this – has especially one person, despite many warnings from very many social actors, helped to tear down. It's the Secretary-General of the Islamic Council Norway, Mehtab Afsar, there's no doubt about it, and a lot of politicians have always dared to say this. So this person, with his behavior, has been able to tear down the many others built up before him. And it's not just about a woman who got hired who went with Nicab; it was maybe the drop that got the urge to run over, there's also been a lot of other episodes. I want to deal with another matter and it's the outbreaks, the ones who've dared to break with the Islamic Council, because being unfair in that way, as you often become in this environment, is a big step to take too many. They have taken this step, they have done this publicly, and it has been a great burden. So we all know here that we need that kind of umbrella organization, we need some kind of Islamic advice or some kind of advice. The outbreaks have been called the Muslim Dialogue Network Norway and are to be a new umbrella organisation. We in the Left prioritised money to them in our alternative budget. It has been a little difficult to get this done, partly because of an ongoing case from IRN etc., but I hope we can eventually finish the IRN case. I hope that the Council of State will be able to say whether she will start a dialogue with the Muslim Dialogue Network Norway, these outreachers who have joined together to create a new umbrella organisation, and whether there may be an organisation to which politicians can extend a hand. Maybe they can fill the void that's going to arise. For all the issues that lie there is not over: the equality in the minority environment, in the Muslim environment – it is not over. Freedom of religion, both the right to have a religion and not to have a religion, is not over – and not least that religion should have a place in this secular, perhaps a little non-believer society. The fight against extremism, children, education – all this is not over. Finally, I would like to say that on an incursion, the Left has fallen out of the last paragraph of the notes. Of course, we also hope that the amount of applications for funds will reflect the diversity of interventions and that the funds can contribute to an inclusive religious dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e530	Then it will be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e535	I would also like to commend the Council of State for the way she has dealt with this matter, how she has dealt with the debates. I agree with Mr Q. Raja that there have been no simple debates. But I also agree with the representative Abid Q. Raja that, in the case of the Islamic Council of Norway, it has been very important for dialogue, even within what has to do with the field of faith and life, for a very long time. Therefore, it is sad that this Council has evolved in the way it has recently done. From this point of view, the Christian People's Party supports the government's handling of this matter, that the last rate of payment to the council is withheld, because it is clear that as the council appears today, it is no longer a dialogue forum and does not meet the criteria for obtaining this kind of support. I think it is sad, and I also share the view of those representatives who have called for us to have such a dialogue forum in place soon, because it is necessary. We need dialogue forums that dare and dare to bring forward what has to do with the field of faith and life, into the open space. Yes, we live in a secular society. Some also get high shoulders when we discuss what has to do with faith and vision of life, for some strange reason. It shouldn't be like that. This, which means so much to so many people, should also be discussed in public space. The Labour Party refers to a proposal for a representative to be discussed by the Committee and to be discussed in the future. They believe that there is a need to make clear requirements for and implement control of all religious and life-view societies in the context of State aid. I just want to make it clear that this is a slightly different matter. This has nothing to do with the public support given to religious communities. The support received by the Islamic Council of Norway is given on completely different types of terms, so here we have to make sure that we don't mix things. I remember – and I remember well – back to the red-green government, which wanted to deprive the youth of the Salvation Army of state aid because they have a different view of what is involved in marriage. I think we're going to get quite a lot of interesting discussions if it's so that parts of this big deal think that state aid should only be granted if one meets them, in a way, politically correct opinions at all times. We're going to get a lot of interesting discussions around when what's now at the hearing, and that's about funding religious communities, comes to the Stortinget. And I really look forward to good discussions on this topic. I just want to end by saying that in the Christian People's Party we support the setting, and then we're going to hope that a dialogue can be established that can go in and do the work that is so important to get into.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e548	I want to start my post by thanking the Committee, first of all for a very effective and quick treatment of a very important but also difficult matter. I would also like to thank the parties in particular for handling this matter. It's an unusual decision The Storting is making today. It is not everyday food that this house chooses to go to the step of withdrawing support for an organisation that has previously decided to use the community's funds. There are many different religious traditions and lifestyles that live well side by side in Norway. We're going to be very grateful for that. Dialogue and cooperation across them are important to create understanding and to prevent conflict with the background of religion and belief or outlook on life. In addition, the belief and life-view societies are important contributors to our society. A good society is created not by the state alone, but in cooperation with civil society. It is a good thing for society that different religious and life-seeing traditions can stand together to solve different societal challenges, both nationally and in the community, and it is important that as many as possible participate. The more votes, the more together we can have ownership of societal challenges and solutions. In this context, umbrella organisations in the field of religion and life are receiving grants. The aim of the grants is to facilitate dialogue, cooperation between the religious and life-view societies and actions and activities which may promote mutual understanding and respect between the religious and life-view communities and the rest of the society. It is important that we do not expect the dialogue of faith and life to be a conflict-free zone. It's a completely naive thought. It's not just those who agree with each other, who are going to talk to each other. Expressing disunity can also be a sign of trust in our society, that people are safe from each other and therefore are struggling to talk together. Even though you're of a completely different opinion and believe in completely different values, it's a value in itself that you meet and talk about the big, difficult issues and challenges in our society and have a common sense of reality. Organisations receiving operating grants such as bridge builder and dialogue organisations shall not only work separately, they shall work for the best of the community. That's why we're using the community funds on these organizations. Trust from members, dialogue partners and cooperation partners is absolutely necessary. It is also a constructive willingness to interact, not only with its own members, but also in relation to cooperation partners and authorities. The Ministry of Culture believes that the Islamic Council of Norway does not meet the conditions of the decision granting the grant by the Storting, and we have therefore adopted the decision to restructure the 2017 grant decision. The IRN has filed an appeal against the amending decision and the complaint is now being dealt with in the usual manner. When the department takes the step in this specific matter to ask for the Storting's consent to cut the operating grant to IRN, it is because the faith and life-view dialogue is too important for us to let it stop because the IRN does not work in line with its purpose. We want to use the funds so that more people can get involved, and so that the funds can benefit from other dialogue projects. We want to strengthen Muslim dialogue, get more votes on the road within civil society, but also with the authorities and society, too. That is why I want to commend the Committee not only for many of the contributions that have been made here today, but also for the approach that has been adopted in the public sphere. One wants a stronger dialogue in the field of faith and life, not least between Muslims, and then today we had to go to the step of reversing support. It's a clear expression that you don't trust the organization. I am pleased that we agree on this, and I am pleased that we have clear and clear votes out in the public debate also from here, not least the representative Abid Q. Raja, who has been in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e568	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e573	I was going to follow up on the question I raised from the pulpit instead. It is not easy for actors to rebel within a relatively loyal environment. There's a lot of represals and a lot of rumors. It's very conflict-making when you first want to break out. Someone said they were going to break out, and then there was a lot of speculation that they were not allowed to break out, that they had not broken out – but at the end they dared to do it anyway. I've met several of these actors. They have joined forces to create this new umbrella organisation, the Muslim Dialogue Network Norway, i.e. the MDN, and the question is whether the Council of State thinks that there may be someone with which the ministry can start dialogue, to see if they can fulfil the role that the Islamic Council of Norway has had, but no longer seems to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e578	As I said in my post, I will commend the representative Raja for having been very clear in this respect. When the representative Raja talks about loyalty claims, it's something he knows very well. What the representative Raja has done is courageous and necessary. I think it's very important that there are some who openly dare to challenge and be a voice for those who want a change and not just will accept it established. I am very pleased that Muslim Dialogue Network Norway has established itself. They have also applied for grants, and now the Ministry is assessing the dialogue actions announced. I would like to invite Muslim Dialogue Network Norway to a meeting in the Ministry to be briefed on the work they have now started.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e585	It was a very good answer from the Minister of Culture, I liked it. It is good to start the dialogue with these. The last thing we're concerned about is all the issues, because the Muslim environment still has a lot of fights to fight again before you can get to where the majority community has come after long struggles. Equality is just a little bit of this, illustrated by the employment that was very controversial. When you look at that job, you think that it's kind of the top of the equality that hasn't gone well, but that's a lot different, for example. violence against children, coercion, lack of freedom to participate in activities, the right to choose education, the right to choose marriage – or the right not to choose marriage, so do not choose to marry anyone, just live alone. Do you really need these social frameworks? The question is, how does the Council of State think she will work to achieve all the other rights we take for granted in Norway, including the Muslim environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e592	That is precisely why we need a dialogue with the Muslim environment and society, and that several actors are on the road together. I do not have one-sided belief that it is only for the authorities to adopt requirements or legal regulations to bring about changes. We have to be in dialogue, we have to understand what is an acceptable way of living in Norway, and what is not, also in view of the specific examples of the representative Raja. There has to be an understanding, and you don't do that if you don't explain how it feels, and why the choices that some people make are not acceptable. An important part of the argument that we are holding back and now taking support from the IRN is that we believe that other actors within the Muslim religious communities can create dialogue in a much better way and be involved in creating understanding. I think we're going to see results of that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e599	We now have a cross-political agreement to cut support for the Islamic Council of Norway, but I think the Stortinget is well served to be clear in terms of the criteria to be used to support dialogue and cooperation, i.e. to be an umbrella organisation for the Muslim religious communities. In this case, the withdrawal of the aid is justified by a lack of cooperation and a lack of trust, so that membership organisations have signed up. Could the Council of State mention three criteria that would be required to receive grants in the future, and was the recruitment of a person with Nicab a determining factor for the choice of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e606	These are the means for creating dialogue between the religious communities. That's why I was a little surprised by the contribution of the Workers' Party from this pulpit, because the Workers' Party was most concerned about showing that you are now tough and active and want to make demands on religious communities. There's a completely different entry in the budget, that's completely different means we're talking about. What the Storting is doing now is looking at how we can strengthen the dialogue between different organisations, umbrella organisations, organisations that unite different religious and life-seekers. The government has sent out a new law on religious societies at the hearing, with which we have worked for a long time, after ordering from Stortinget, where we look at what needs to be done to withdraw state subsidies. We don't take that debate now, it doesn't belong here, because now it's a completely different post, for completely different purposes we're discussing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e613	I would like to inform you that not only will the Workers' Party make demands on Muslim religious communities. We will also, in the law to which the Council of State refers, make some demands on the basis of which to receive grants to be an umbrella organisation. I believe it is necessary that the Storting is clear, so that we do not get these discussions once in a while. This means, among other things: the Workers' Party believes that umbrella organisations should coordinate the work of integration, the fight against social control and the emergence of religious courts, and the training of imams, so that they understand the values of Norway based on: equality, freedom and democracy. Then my question is: will the Council of State welcome such a proposal from the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e618	I would have liked it to be welcomed if the Workers' Party had thought some new thoughts themselves. But what the Labour Party has done is to sit down and look at two years of work in the ministry and at our law that is out for consultation, and then they just copied some of the suggestions and tightened up a little bit more in a desire to appear to be capable of action and tough. It's a little impressive. It is also a very good example of the idea drying that is currently in the Workers' Party. They copy proposals from the government that we have out at the hearing and during work, and then they present a slightly reworked Document 8. The government is demanding the religious communities in our law that are out for consultation and that I expect the representative to have read. Now we are very excited about what answers we get back from the hearing regarding demands for both when and how to get support. But if they don't comply, we also want to consider how to withdraw support. This will give Stortinget a good opportunity to discuss when the law comes here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e625	I want to address a third theme as well, and that is, of course, extremism. Extremeism can be so much. Now we have a study – that was this week – where we see that there is a lot of Jewish hatred in the majority society, but also in minority environments. The Muslims have a Jewish hatred, but we see that it is also prejudiced against Muslims. There are a few things that I think we need to tackle when we start this dialogue work. At the House of Literature I arranged some dialogue meetings a few years ago, and there we had just a Jew hater who stood and measured this Jewish hatred while the Crown Prince sat in the hall. It's the same Jew hater that a few years later got Fritt Ord's Honnør, among other things. to have taken the initiative to make a peace ring around the synagogue when it was threatened. So it's clear that you can change people. The question is: how does the Minister of Culture realise that this new work is now to be undertaken, including, for example: Muslim Dialogue Network Norway, can change children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e632	I think that an actor like Muslim Dialogue Network Norway will have a very central role, so I have very great expectations of meeting them and presenting the work that they want to do. We also have several action plans, and we have decisions from the Stortinget that we follow up on in terms of improving dialogue. However, in addition to the decision-making process and what the authorities can do, we need to look at the everyday nature of the dialogue. How do we deal with our children and young people in schools, and with other adults in the workplace, to prevent hatred and extremism? An example I would like to draw up is the play to be set up at the Norwegian Theatre, where a group has received funding from the Ministry of Culture to tell us about extremism. There a former extremist tells through a speech from the scene why he got into that environment, what made him end up there, and how to get out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e640	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e647	I began my political career to be in this dialogue work. I didn't mean to be a big-time politician. The idea was to change our time in terms of these cultural things that we see exist in society, and it has to be a targeted work. When you talk about integration in Norway, and so on in the rest of Europe, you talk mainly about four things. You talk about language – you have to learn the language, you have to take education, you have to be law-abiding, and you have to be at work. When these things have been done, most Europeans, especially in social democracy, have felt that they are on target. You've learned the language, you've taken education, you're not criminal, and you're at work -- it's great. I think it's really just the basic plan to approach something you might call being an integrated citizen. Being an integrated citizen is much more. You can be all those things – that is, the four things to know the language, to have education, to be at work and to be law-abiding – and still for example. believe that the woman's place is behind closed doors in the kitchen, and that she should not participate in the same line. Of course, you won't force her to do this, but it's an attitude you have. Is one then an integral part of society? You can, for example: They believe that those who have a religion other than their own are worse people, or that those who get rid of the religion they belong to, for example. Converts - are some you have to push away socially. Are they integrated? You can, for example: think that homosexuals should not have the same rights as others, or to the extent that they are not as good people. Are they integrated? And if you, for example, do not have the same belief in democracy as we do elsewhere in society – are you then integrated? I mean we have to get away from the old way of thinking about it. Integration is more than language, education, work and law enforcement. Integration is also values. That's the value debate I'm concerned with, that the new network that's coming is going to be able to handle it. It doesn't just keep fighting about halalmate certification, which in a way is one of the great work that remains of today's Islamic Council Norway. It's about a lot more. If you come to a country like Norway to get a better life for both yourself and your children, you must also try to participate in the freedoms that this country stands for. We must have faith in that. We have to believe that people change, as I illustrated with that Jew hater -- that's the strongest example I can come up with, because we changed many stone throwers at the House of Literature. It was easier. I didn't think even we were able to change that Jew hater, but it gave me the courage to believe that we can change everyone if we just facilitate that work. My appeal to the Minister of Culture is to start the dialogue with the new Muslim Dialogue Network Norway, and I hope they can fill the gap after the Islamic Council of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e662	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox There is a need to have a break in the meeting before we go to voting, and there will be a call to voting a little later. I would recommend the representatives to stay in the house, so that you are here when it is called to vote. Then the Storting takes a break. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. Ten, thirty-seven. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 11/14. President: Mr Olemic Thommes
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e682	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e691	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Hans Andreas Limi on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 2, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red The President will first refer to his proposal on the voting order. You will first be informed about the I settings. If this is adopted, there will be a vote on the second vote and proposals. 1 and 2, according to Section 60 of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure. After that, there will be a vote over the III of the setting, and finally over the IV of the setting. Are there any objections to this procedure? Hans Andreas Limi.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e709	For the sake of order, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Progress Party will vote against you because we want two members to be elected to the Nobel Committee for six years. Then we do not want alternative voting on the proposed candidates, but we want a separate voting, with reference to Storting’s Rules of Procedure § 59, second paragraph. We have not promoted a counter-candidate to Berit Reiss-Andersen, and I have not registered anyone else in this room having done so. We want to vote in favour of her nomination for the Nobel Committee, but we also want to vote in favour of our own candidate for the Nobel Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e718	As announced, Red will also vote against I, and if it is adopted, Red will maintain Fredrik Heffermehl as a candidate for six years because it will provide a clear choice for the Stortinget between loyalty to the parties and for the will of Alfred Nobel and the purpose of the Peace Prize.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e723	We now have to decide on the voting order. The President understands that the Party of Presidents wishes to vote against the proposed voting order and wishes to vote separately on II and proposals No. 1 and 2. The President will have the Chamber decide the voting order. We are voting for the President's motion for a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e749	Behind the setting is the Workers' Party, Right, Center Party, Socialist Left Party, Left and Christian People's Party. The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. The Party of Advancement and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e770	The majority shall now elect one member of the Nobel Committee for six years. There are three proposals here. This is the proposal in the vote on Mr Reiss-Andersen, the proposal by Mr Limi on Mr Hagen and the proposal by Mr Moxnes on Mr Heffermehl. Proposal No. 1st sounds: ‘As a member of the Nobel Committee for the period from 1 January 2018 to 31. on December 2023 Carl I. Hagen.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: «As a member of the Nobel Committee for six years, Fredrik Heffermehl is proposed.» The vote is then – as previously adopted – pursuant to point (d) of the first paragraph of Section 60, using currency without signature. Marit Arnstad – explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e791	As there will now be a choice between three candidates, I would recommend the Central Party's Grand-Group, in line with what was agreed in the Stortinget on Tuesday, and in line with the vote of the Election Committee, to vote at Berit Reiss-Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e796	Hans Andreas Limi – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e801	Since Stortinget has now adopted alternative voting, against our votes, we are maintaining the proposal on Carl I. Hagen, and I recommend the Group of the Progressive Alliance to vote on Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e806	The President refers to Paragraph 60, first paragraph, point d, last and last sentence, which reads as follows: ‘The voters shall write on the note the names of the persons to whom they vote and shall personally attach the note to the urn. If more than one person is to be chosen, the last name or names on the ballot shall not be included.’;» The President here also refers to the second paragraph of Paragraph 61. That's what it says. ‘In voting pursuant to paragraph 60, first paragraph, point (d), a relative majority, i.e. more votes than for any other proposal, decisive for the outcome of the election, if it is not provided for by law, regulation or, on a case-by-case basis, that more than half of the votes shall be required in order for someone to be counted as elected. So the representatives have to write one name for the issued banknotes and put them in the urns that are set up in the hall. A written vote will then be taken. The result of the choice was as follows: A total of 104 votes were cast. As a member of the Nobel Committee for the period from 1 January 2018 to 23. On December 2023 Berit Reiss-Andersen was elected with 86 votes. 16 votes were cast to Carl I. Hagen. 1 vote was cast to Fredrik Heffermehl. One voice was blank. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e892	During the debate, Mr Sem-Jacobsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to finance the anniversary grant to the Norwegian Tourist Association in a way other than through the surplus’. The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e909	President, I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e914	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e919	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e957	The centre party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced subsidiary support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e967	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e977	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-08.ana.ud313e1041	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
