ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e64	They called the alternates of Akershu County, Are Health and Anne Odenmarck, now taking the seat. The representative, Eirik Sivertsen, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e77	On behalf of the big business representatives Dag Terje Andersen, Hugo Johan Bjørnstad, Odd Omland, Karianne O. Heavy and myself, I would like to make a proposal on a level playing field for domestic and foreign operators in the truck industry. On behalf of the big business representatives Else-May Botten, Lise Christoffersen, Hugo Johan Bjørnstad, Magne Rommetveit and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a comprehensive aviation strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e84	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e89	Given that most of the Nordics are checking what they pay in taxes today, we are well aware that they are paying what they are going to pay. And in order for them to pay what they have to pay, the big fish have to contribute what they actually have to. That is why I am delighted to make proposals on behalf of myself for action against the black economy and tax evasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e94	In this respect, we are going to look after both small and large fish, because the proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond noon. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e114	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line with up to six lines of response after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e123	I wonder what would happen if one of the approximately 60,000 companies that were established in Norway last year came up with an idea where they connected people by car who were willing to drive others who needed transport but who did not have a car, and that this was done in a quick, safe and easy way for remuneration that could be digitally traced through an app that was developed with funds from Innovation Norway, and was proclaimed to this year's gas company and predicted great international opportunities. We had probably thought it was a bit cool, especially if it turned out that this could lead to safer transport for women, since all trips would be traceable and logged automatically and the driver depends on the customer's feedback, and also if the service lowered the threshold of working life and enabled people to capitalize on the large investment car actually is. Well, that was just a thought. Economy is the learning of how scarce resources and values are distributed between people, households and businesses in a society, as well as how the same actors create values through the efficient use of scarce resources. Most of what is offered in the so-called sharing economy is nothing new. We've always rented, replaced, borrowed or sold capacity, services or things we don't need. The difference is that the emergence of digital platforms that link needs and capacity more securely, smarter and more efficiently than when it went through acquaintances or newspaper headlines challenges both existing business models and the regulations and tax regimes to which the business models are adapted. It is our job to ensure that both old and new ways of organising services are subject to regulation, including taxation, which underpins the creation of values through the efficient use of resources. This means that old regulations should be updated so that both new and old business models can provide safer, smarter and more efficient capacity utilisation on relatively equal terms. I say relatively, because if we are to be able to exploit the efficiency of the new business models, they must thrive on their own premises, not on the premises of the old ones. For example, we force. not Netflix to pay rent for 1000 stores throughout the country for Video Nova to survive, or Spotify to establish outlets for music. Therefore, we need to modernise current regulations in order to provide a level playing field for service provision within the same market, but distinguish between what is actually commercial activity and what is the ability of individuals to use or share their own resources and capacity for an extra income. It is an overall committee that emphasises that the sharing economy can make a positive contribution to a sustainable economy, better distribution and use of goods and services, better selection and lower prices for the consumer and new employment opportunities. So the committee is essentially in favour of the possibilities offered by the new digital platforms. At the same time, the Committee stresses the need for effective regulation of the participants in the sharing economy in order to ensure increased growth, taxation and jobs. In addition, the Committee considers that there is a need to identify any regulatory gaps and the need for further regulation, in particular in the areas of consumer protection, taxation and labour market. The majority of the Committee acknowledges that, in parallel with the work of the Joint Economic Committee, the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration have assessed the need for new fiscal guidelines and regulatory changes. In addition, the Ministry of Transport has worked to adapt existing regulations for passenger transport, including: to assess changes in the legislation of taxi centres and the organisation of industry and the possibility of lifting the requirement that taxis should be the principal privileges of the licence holder, as well as to allow more people to run interconnections. This is in line with the government’s promise to work on the necessary legislative changes in parallel with the position of the Shared Economic Committee, which is now being consulted. The work responds in part to several of the minority’s proposals to assess the applicability of current legislation and to identify and close any regulatory gaps. The majority also ask the government to review the Tax Directorate's report and prepare a follow-up and possible changes in the rules, as the minority does, but in other words. The same applies to the follow-up of BEPS. But I am pleased to note that the minority wants a public portal for consumers, platforms and providers with information about the sharing economy. Because then I keep the domain involved.no, which I bought five years ago to promote services in the sharing economy. And if things go wrong right until the fall, I'm betting on being compensated enough to give it away. Everything that is today highlighted as labour, tax and sectoral regulation challenges is political and can be solved politically. Both the input from all the hearing bodies, the position, the opposition – and the constructive opposition – in this work is a very good starting point for doing just that. So I thank you for the cooperation in the committee and look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e140	Sometimes the sharing economic debate can be a little confusing, with different starting points and different suggestions. But this is not a debate on whether the sharing economy is coming. It's coming -- it's how one meets what's coming. A few weeks ago, the NRK could refer to a study that Deloitte had done, where one had asked young people in different countries if they were afraid of the new technology coming, and for robots to take the jobs in the future. A large majority of American youths replied that they were quite afraid of what was coming. In Norway, we weren't so scared. So we should ask ourselves, why is that? Well, in the last 40 years in the United States, the growth in the economy has not meant wage growth for ordinary people. New technologies do not necessarily mean new jobs and the labour market has become worse. In Norway, we have an opposite story. New technology has been well distributed here, growth has been well distributed, and it has not been fewer, but more jobs. We have built broad competences and used the opportunities offered by new technologies to create new, good jobs. It is interesting to see that the government has tried to meet this discussion with the sharing economy. There has already been a reference to the Shared Economics Committee. I have to say, unfortunately, that I think what the sample provided was weak, and it is mostly about the mandate they received from the government. Many have described it as a lost time, one should have started before. Once again the government thought it was the experts who needed to be heard. I believe that this should be a trialogue, because the Norwegian secret to how to meet new technology is working with the parties. We see a government that is passive and unwilling to take action, one that has taken into account the business-neutral policy and is not willing to find out how best to meet the new technology. One said that one would work in parallel with introducing new regulations and new rules. Little has happened here, there have been three lost years. The Labour Party believes that Norway could and should have gone ahead here. We have the best conditions to let the sharing economy and new technologies mean new jobs. Instead, we see countries such as Estonia, Sweden and the United Kingdom moving ahead, taking action and facilitating new technologies to create new jobs. With the proposal we promoted, we thought that we should find a Norwegian model, a comprehensive way of meeting the sharing economy, which could have created new jobs, not the inaction shown by the government here. The proposals we are promoting today call for a faster approach to this – better and earlier changes in the rules – so that we ensure that this means more jobs. I hope that for decades to come, the government will show the ability to adapt and make it possible for a greater degree of regulation to be introduced, so that we do not lose even more time and competitiveness to other countries. With this, I take up the suggestions that the Workers' Party is involved in promoting in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e157	The representative of Torstein Tvedt Solberg has then taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e162	The Progress Party is committed to facilitating the growth, development and functioning of the sharing economy in Norway. The sharing economy contributes, and will contribute, to stronger competition, greater consumer choice and new income opportunities for households, and it represents positive opportunities for the Norwegian economy. It should guide our work on this topic. At the same time, we know that there are both uncertainties and challenges, and then we have to look at whether we need to re-evaluate the legislation. We already know that efficient resource use, increased competition, benefits for consumers and increased innovation must be seen as benefits, while differences in regulation, weaker consumer protection and tax rules that can be perceived as unclear and complicated are among the challenges ahead. Since current legislation in many areas was designed long before digital technology opportunities were known, the rules do not always fit equally well with the new business models. My idea is that we must not reject the sharing economy because the legislation is not applicable, and we only have the safe legislation we have, but we have to look at what the current legislation is supposed to do, and then see how a new regulation can continue to safeguard the interests of consumers, the rights of workers, ensure that the State receives its tax revenue, and that society functions. We need to create a regulatory framework that is adapted to development and innovation, not a regulatory framework that is consistent with a special business model or technology. An example of the last one is that when we were just three years ago to process a new parking code, the legal text was about the payment of parking via SMS. So the law, which was written just a few years ago, did not take into account that there are now applications where you can pay for parking, which have replaced text messages. We need to make the most technology-neutral legislation, which does not need to be updated for each new app or service that becomes available in the coming years. The companies in the sharing economy are, in my experience, based on meetings with these, normally offensive companies. They see great opportunities through the use of digital platforms, but they have a self-interest in being well regulated. They want good employment for their employees, and they want orderly tax payments. These companies are constructive, and they are solution-oriented. In Estonia, Uber has cooperated with the tax authorities. They have created an app where you can send tax information to the authorities with a simple button. In these days, a report from the sample looked at the sharing economy and opportunities and challenges for the future. A key message from the sample is that the sharing economy can provide stronger competition, more efficient use of resources and greater choice for consumers. I think it is a positive idea, and I believe that in the future we need to give priority to actions that promote value creation, innovation and entrepreneurship. Then the growth of the sharing economy is positive. The sharing economy can attract more resources into the economy and provide new income opportunities for people who cannot have full-time jobs in the labour market. This can raise employment and it can lift the value creation. At the same time, it is important that competition between new players and traditional enterprises is conducted on the most equal terms and that the sharing economy contributes to tax revenue. The need for profitable companies that pay taxes makes it necessary to get companies into a fixed framework, because the prerequisite for the welfare society we have is that we get tax revenues that finance our welfare tasks. When it comes to the proposal that is on the table today, from some of the representatives of the Workers' Party, I consider it an attempt to start as soon as possible to regulate, and that before we have received the report from the sample back from the hearing. I believe that this is unwise, and this eagerness to get started with several regulations I do not share. I think we are wise to wait for the consultation round and then get on the table a case that takes care of the whole of the sharing economy based on the feedback from market players, consumers, organisations and those who know best how the sharing economy can best be regulated in order to be a positive contributor to the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e181	In Norway and the world, divisional economies have existed in different forms from the morning. However, given the technological development and a labour market which has traditionally been much more regulated, this situation we have now had, has gained a topicality that I understand that the representatives of the Workers' Party have included in this proposal for a representative. While we are dealing with the issue of the sharing economy, the government's reduced sample has come up with its report, which is now being consulted. You can certainly say that this matter is in process. Sharing economy has advantages and disadvantages. Persons with free resources in the form of housing, cars or anything else are given the opportunity to share them in a profitable way, and consumers often receive increased offers and, in part, lower prices. It's positive. The challenge, of course, is to ensure a level playing field with other industries and to guarantee the rights of employees. It is the balancing of these advantages and disadvantages that I perceive that everyone is looking to find a good framework for, and I expect the government to use the consultation process and work after it to give its answer. I'm excited to hear what the council so far thinks about such a framework. There are many proposals contained in the proposal for a representative. We haven't gone into anyone, because we think we'll first take the round with the hearing and a proposition and then give a closer look. But together with the majority, we've given some leadership. We expect the government, as we have agreed, to fully implement the BEPS recommendations in the Norwegian legislation, and we are committed to direct follow-up to the Tax Directorate's report also at political level in order to obtain regulatory changes that both ensure that it is reported, that it is properly taxed and that employees' rights are respected. So we've given a special lead from our side. This concerns the taxi industry. The Section for Economic and Monetary Union and Industrial Policy has proposed to remove the obligation of permission. It can be said to be reliable, not least if you're in a city. But we see that the possibility of maintaining a transport service in the districts 24 hours a day is likely to require some kind of permission. There are duties and rights. That's why we're already warning that that part of the sample's conclusion we're very sceptical about. We, as the committee, have been in other countries and have looked at the consequences of the sharing economy. We must note that, especially for transport and overnight stays, this poses major challenges in many countries, both in terms of taxation and employee rights. So we're concerned with a quick follow-up of this by the government, so that both we as consumers and those who want to participate in the sharing economy in these areas, know what to actually deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e194	Helping each other, sharing tools out, and for my own part, renting out machines, is something we've been doing for generations. This is only positive in order to maximise the use of society's resources. And then the technological opportunity that comes, which is also a major step forward, has given new opportunities. Then it's a political task to make sure that those opportunities are used, but at the same time to hit them in a way that doesn't make them unlucky. I want to talk a little bit about the taxi industry, a very important industry that binds Norway together, and which you can really say is everywhere, always. Because no matter where you are in Norway, it's a taxi centre. They have a 24-hour watch and are an important part of our total collective service. Having a well-functioning taxi industry is also part of our societal preparedness. The Joint Economic Committee’s report – like the majority who write – almost appears to be an order shop where they want today’s taxi industry to live. There, Uber's crimes are not affected, and you want to make their business legal. There is no doubt that the sharing economy – if you can call it the business that Uber has run, because it – is illegal passenger transport for remuneration. This has been settled by order and judgment. In the opinion of the majority of the committee, there is nothing to say that Uber is unlawful. 600 drivers are, as I have been told, taken for VAT and tax evasion. It's not a problem with a single word. And it is, I think, a little strange that the case-rapporteur, Heidi Nordby Lunde, has encouraged us to continue illegal activities in the name of Uber. It's a little unwise, from our point of view, that big business representatives, even if they disagree with today's policy, encourage crime. I believe it would have been appropriate to make it explicitly clear that the authorisation system should be in place, that Uber is operating illegally, and that their business must be seriously broken down. In order to be clear and in line with the case-law, the other parties should support our proposal to ask ‘the Government considers that remuneration for the provision of transport services in excess of the State’s tariffs for the use of private cars is to be regarded as transport for remuneration and is therefore subject to the obligation of permission’. But they didn't want to do that. Not even the majority of the Committee would have asked the government to define what is the sharing economy as regards transport services, and not even our remark that the actors in the sharing economy and operators who mediate it or provide services via digital platforms are to operate within the laws and regulations in force and pay taxes and charges to the community, they have signed on. However, the rights regime will continue, even after that. It is, fortunately, not up to the Financial Committee to amend it by examining a proposal from a representative and, fortunately, it is widely acknowledged that the authorisation system and the number limit make sense to provide good taxi services in both the city and the countryside. I record that the Left in the setting argues to give local authority to allow Uber in larger cities. The Christian People's Party also argues that the removal of the rights can be positive from a consumer perspective. There is absolutely no professional reason for this, on the contrary, experience suggests that such a policy will lead to over-establishment, increased environmental impact and more expensive and less expensive offers, including in cities. While it is important that we, as a magnification, are positive to new technological opportunities, it is also important that we, as a magnification, see the challenges it presents, and that we create predictability for a very important and high level of nutrition for the country: the taxi industry. It has had major challenges in various tendering procedures already with a release of permits, and it is important that we create predictability and decent conditions, so that we can still have a good taxi industry in Norway. I'll bring this up with the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e213	The representative, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, has taken up the proposal he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e218	It is good that Stortinget is so positive to the sharing economy. This is, of course, how – as the representative Schlagsvold Vedum said in his introduction – that this is strictly nothing new, but something we have been doing for generations. The new is, of course, the power of modern, electronic communications, which triggers both great opportunities and great challenges. There is little doubt that the split-economy undertaken in an orderly manner can contribute to significantly better resource use, green growth in practice. So it's hard to be very bombastic in one direction or another. In some areas, the sharing economy works well; in others, there is little doubt that there is much more demand, not least the problem of clean working conditions and tax problems. Nor is there any doubt that there is a challenge given that the companies behind different sharing economic platforms are often established abroad, and thus pay a minimum tax to Norway. Passenger transport, which was mentioned earlier, is one of the areas where the sharing economy has reached its highest level and where it is obvious that something needs to be done. In the United States, the taxi industry and the new players, like Uber, seem to work pretty well together. Denmark is a case of the opposite, where Uber no is banned. What works somewhere else may not work as well. In the case of passenger transport, the Left has an own proposal, which could as well be made without connection to the sharing economy, which we propose: ‘The decision requests the Government to propose, as soon as possible, the renewal of the regulation on the rights and the testing of the needs of passenger transport so that the relevant provisions can be applied locally.’ I include the proposal from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e232	The representative of Terje Breivik has addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e238	A lot of the wealth growth in Norway over the last 100 years is based on the very good system we've had in our working life, where we've made sure that those who do the job are left with a lot of the profits. We should have that in mind when we discuss these issues. Throughout the world now, the problem arises that major parts of the world of work and production go back to – what we should call it – a pre-capitalistic model of how values are distributed and how values are created. From having a stable and secure employment relationship with a clear relationship between the employer and the employee, we are returning to a stage where each employee needs to take more care of himself from day to day and where each employee no longer has the same guarantees as before in order to have a fixed income and a predictable income. In a country like Norway, having a fixed and secure income is quite central. A person may not establish himself without a fixed and secure income. One may forget to get a car loan without a fixed and secure income. Household loans in today's housing market can at least be forgotten without a fixed and secure income. Some respond to this development by becoming anti-technology. One of the leading presidential candidates in France has proposed to counter the pressure of automation on workers to introduce a tax on robots. It may sound like a joke, but it is a serious proposal that politicians in many countries are now discussing. It is a perfectly terrible proposal in many ways. It is precisely productivity growth and new technologies that have enabled us in Norway to reduce average working hours, increase real wages almost every year and build a society with a high standard of living for almost everyone. Starting to tax technological development and opposing technological development in itself is never a clever answer to emerging new issues that put pressure on workers' rights. That being said, the opposite extreme is also a challenge if one does not have the ability to address the new dilemmas that arise in working life as a result of new technological opportunities. Here, I suppose, the government has at least been quite passive, because there is no doubt that Tryve Battle Violence Vedum is right in much of – yes, in all – the criticism he has promoted in his post. New technological platforms are emerging that allow services to be provided in a way that falls outside the scope of current legislation and that, in many areas, directly challenge the arrangements we have in the Norwegian labour market, and not least the relationship of power between employer and employee. It is a problem we have to deal with most seriously, because the core of the Norwegian welfare state is not the tax system or decision taken in the Stortinget. It is that the vast majority of those who have done work in Norway have been organised historically. They have been in a community that has made employers have a predictable counterparty to negotiate with, and they have had a relationship of power with each other that has enabled those who have worked in Norway to receive part of the profits each year — a large part of the profits each year. In this way, we have built a society where most people in Norway have a good and safe job. If we now leave more and more of the working life in a new phase where each employee is a day-to-day freelancer – not necessarily because you want it yourself and walk with a very inner entrepreneurial spirit, but because you have no other choice – we are bad out there. Then we're bad because the payment for these jobs will go down, and because an increasing proportion of the profits of this technology development will go to those who own the jobs, and not to those who do the job. That's why I want to talk about a little bit of distinction between the terms. Sharing economy is lending. It's car collective. It is to ensure that an average drill in Norway is used more than 15 minutes during its lifetime — a more sensible use of resources. What we are really discussing in the Chamber today is the economy of communication, and the fact that we have new, fantastic technological opportunities for the provision of services does not mean that the need to regulate these sectors becomes less, as the Progress Party seems to believe. Then the need for regulation becomes greater, not to put obstacles, but to ensure that what has always been a guiding principle, at least for the left-wing in this room, that those who do social work should get as good a job as possible, to paraphrase the country's first socialist prime minister, Hornsrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e249	Sharing economy, intermediary economy, platform economy, etc. are terms that we are currently struggling with a part of defining clearly. Furthermore, sharing economy must be an important element of a larger circular economy that is emerging as a more holistic way of organising economics and resource flows. Inefficient and poor use of earth's resources is one of mankind's greatest problems, and a much larger feature of the sharing economy and the circular economy can be a very important contribution to reducing these problems. The whole thing is basically banal, as many have pointed out – two or four people in one car are two or four times more resource efficient than just one in the same car, and it might create a job for a car owner who does not have a job from before. Used in many contexts and blown up on a large scale, this can bring enormous efficiency gains. A European survey shows that our car park is parked about 90 pst. of the time, and our offices are available between 30 and 50 pst. of time. And a few weeks extra of a cabin standing empty most of the year, can save the calving area of the villa from two new cabins that are unnecessary and also empty. This simply sums up the Greens' project. Common solutions about great opportunities are what we need more of. Moreover, the sharing economy can be social. We get it more comfortable in everyday life if we step into the neighborhood to borrow the common drill of housing, than if every woman ingests in solitude at her unused drill. Of course, we have always known this, but the tension lies in a technology that now gives us the opportunity to organise this kind of sharing economy in new and much more efficient ways. There's technology, it's evolving, it's unstoppable, and we have to essentially view it as a unique good. The challenge is how many new and currently unforeseen ways we can organise and use the resources that these technologies open up to. These are challenges that we need to take active action. We must have great ambitions. We need to develop the sharing economy to be what we want it to be. The Greens welcome the original proposal of the Workers' Party. We should not sit passive and look at the sharing economy with a sluggish, neutral eye. We should arrest it actively, and we should actively develop it. We see no contradiction between taking on regulations that are absolutely necessary right now, in order to ensure that the sharing economy does not derail, so I also support the proposals of the minority, with the exception of the proposals of the Centre Party, which I think go too far. We need to address the opportunities of the sharing economy in a way that is sufficiently ambitious. It must be made explicitly clear that the prerequisite for this new field of activity is that it actually brings benefits where society needs to gain — jobs, businesses, taxes, social capital and a clear contribution to resource efficiency and environmental burden reduction. In order to achieve this, it is essential that public regulation be adapted, while giving room for new development of the sharing economy, while respecting the rights of workers and consumers and the Community's income from its activities. It has been said that workers in the sharing economy have been paid 25 pst. worse than what is paid to permanent staff performing the same job. Of course, that's not right at all. The taxation of platforms and services has been the subject of legal action in many countries. It's also something that we have to be aware of. We therefore share the minority's view that it is urgent to take political initiatives to facilitate the sharing economy, while at the same time assessing where today's legislation needs development. But at the same time, we must not make the mistake of believing that Storting's task is primarily to protect existing industries from emerging new competition. The Green Party supports the development of regulations where necessary, but not as a brake on new technologies and new forms of organisation, which we must basically welcome. They speed up the efforts of a sharing economy that we now see, can help revolutionize our economy from being a private, individualistic economy to becoming a resource-economy interaction economy, and that's what we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e268	Let me first say that it is gratifying that the Storting today is debating the sharing economy and what opportunities the sharing economy can have. I can assure the Storting that the government is committed to facilitating the sharing economy. For this reason, we set up a public sample to assess how the sharing economy can contribute to more efficient resource use and assess opportunities, but also challenges with the new services. In my opinion, the sample has done a thorough job, and they have put forward proposals that are topical and point forward. The main message from the sample is that the split economy represents positive opportunities for the Norwegian economy. The sharing economy is based on new business models that allow, inter alia: that individuals or households can sell, buy and share directly with each other. We also see companies interacting and sharing production resources in new ways, and here I fully agree with the sample assessments. But sharing is nothing new. The new thing is that digital technology makes it possible to divide between more and far more widely than before. Thus, unused or under-utilised resources can benefit, increase competition and benefit consumers from potentially lower prices and wider choice. To the proposal to review current legislation and, where appropriate, to propose further regulations, I would like to stress that the government is concerned with the challenges. In some areas, the new services and lettings may provide a weakened income base for established enterprises and workers facing new and increased competition. Nor can we ignore the fact that those who are paying for a job in the divisional economy can have a weaker connection to the labour market than those who are applying for employment and permanent employment. At the same time, the divisional economy can be more flexible, create new job opportunities and facilitate entrepreneurship. Not everyone fits into a regular A4 job. The answer to these challenges is no longer to regulate, as proposers seem to think. The government is concerned with simplification and good framework conditions that make it attractive to operate in Norway, whether in the sharing economy, in traditional enterprises or in non-governmental organisations. We need to create more and no more taxes, and we need to be open to the innovation that the sharing economy brings with it. But in order to make good use of the opportunities, we need to have rules of play that are as equal as possible for all actors, regardless of technology and business model. Therefore, we will critically assess whether there are regulations, taxes and other things that are not appropriate to technological developments and that have expired. Some regulations may be too strict or unnecessary bureaucratic so as to prevent the emergence of new business ideas and production methods. The Shared Economic Committee has made an important contribution to understanding which regulations can be particularly problematic, and we will carefully evaluate the proposals. I have also noticed that there are many areas where the sample does not propose changes, but believes that the sharing economy fits well into today's regulations. Now we have sent the investigation to a broad and open hearing, and we will take all the hearing replies before we take a final position. The tax revenue has, on behalf of me, been subject to tax and tax aspects of the sharing economy, and they submitted a report on this in January. The Directorate points out inter alia: on the possibilities to simplify the tax treatment of persons with many, small and occasional incomes. There is also the potential to make better use of digital technologies than today for tax treatment and control. I want to review the report and see the proposals in conjunction with the sample's tax assessments. The issues raised by the sharing economy in the tax field are not new. However, the growth of the sharing economy necessitates a reassessment. It is too early to point to concrete proposals, but I can say something about considerations that I will focus on. Similar cases shall be treated equally, irrespective of their organisation and the form of operation. All shall be taxed on benefits earned by work or other personal effort, while the costs of effort shall be deducted from the tax base. Therefore, we must avoid creating specific rules for the sharing economy, while at the same time eliminating discrimination resulting from existing rules. From this point of view, we can simplify legislation and procedures that benefit all taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e289	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e294	In my post I referred to that several have called the time of sharing economy some ‘lost years’. We in the opposition are impatient, and several have said that one should have come further, one should have done more before. And I'm talking about the ‘Norwegian secret’, about how a person meets this new technology, which is also a good thing for the economy, just a good thing about tripartite cooperation, that all the parties are involved. I think that if the Shared Economic Committee had been a tripartite committee, it could give us more and better answers and give the Minister of Finance a better starting point for the job she now has to do. My question is therefore: why did the Minister of Finance choose to set up an expert committee and not a trialogue when she was going to look at the sharing economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e301	Firstly, there have not been three lost years. I took this initiative early, because I was in dialogue with many of the companies that are part of the so-called sharing economy, and that wanted to come in with simpler rules, so that they could report their taxes and participate as responsible social actors. That's why I took that initiative. At the same time, I asked the tax authorities to carry out their assessment of this. So here we are at the ball. I can't see that any of the proposals that the Labour Party has made today go beyond this, but they go along the same lines that the government has already initiated. So to the sample: this sample consisted of members from both the consumer authorities, from ICT Norway, who should really know part of these challenges, from Abelia, as a party to the employers, and from LO. So saying that this sample did not have representatives from the parties is directly wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e308	I just have to repeat the question, because I think a trialogue had given better and clearer answers. One looks at it, for example. LO's representative in the sample has made good, concrete proposals – which unfortunately are in a minority. It is also no secret that the Progress Party has historically been a little unwilling to take the trade unions into this type of work. I'm afraid it's the ideological backbone that makes the Council of State decide not to take the necessary steps. I don't think one can avoid getting input from other good experts from the outside, but a tripartite collaboration, a tripartite selection, could have given you a clearer and better response, so that one could now deliver more. Does the Council not see that trade unions and tripartite cooperation should have a greater role in meeting the sharing economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e313	You can see LO's views in the selection settings. Some of them are in a minority, but they are now out at the hearing. This means that everyone who has an opinion on the issues raised by the Joint Economic Committee can now feel something about this. That's good. We'll get views from many of the people who weren't in the sample and who can evaluate the different sides of this. I have been busy raising many issues related to this — the Working Environment Act, pension issues — because there are many different challenges opening up with companies that organise themselves in a way that we are not used to. Therefore, it has been important to clarify all the questions. Then I record that the sample was not unanimous on all the points, but also the minority proposals are now subject to consultation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e318	In the Committee we also had a hearing on this proposal for a representative. Unfortunately, the employee organisations were not present at that hearing for some reason, but they have to answer for that. But the summary from the Council of State of some leads for further work, including: The fact that similar cases are to be treated equally corresponds very well with what we were presented at the hearing, and the common denominator for that is good reporting. If you don’t have a report, it’s also hard to know if similar cases are treated equally – and this came whether you were positive, a little less positive or, however, a little negative to parts of it that are referred to as sharing economies. So I just ask myself that in the follow-up to the work, that's the very question, that's the reporting theme, which is not least important both in terms of taxes and distribution of income, etc., high on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e325	I can assure Agent Syversen of that. But precisely because reporting is high on the list, simplification is also high on the list, because these things are interconnected. We need to remember – and rejoice too – that one of the consequences of the digitalisation we are now in is that it is much easier to have good reporting practices, which also provide good control mechanisms. But making this as simple as possible, I think, is a strength, because it increases the possibility of getting reported even less, given that changes are also made on that interface.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e330	This was mentioned, among others. the recordings that have come from the tax rate at the request of the Minister of Finance, and I think it is a common perception that the tax rate is capable of looking ahead and making simplifications. There will probably be many people who check their taxes today, also discovering if they look back a few years and compare. So my question is: will the government, too, say, use the good examples? Because there are many agencies that might have a little bit of a way to go compared for example. with the tax base in the case of digitisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e336	I fully agree with that: the tax haven has come a long way in digitising services, which makes it appear far more consumer friendly than many other public agencies do, while also making powerful business-oriented simplifications through digitisation. The digitisation of the wider public sector is an important task in the future, which we must pursue with full pressure, simply because all public agencies have to be just as forward-looking as the tax rate has been for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e341	I wonder if the Council of State can say what concrete measures she intends to take to ensure that workers, including the new divisional economy, have safe working conditions, good pension conditions and are treated as ordinary workers in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e346	I think there is a broad consensus in this room that we should have safe working conditions and a good relationship with the various welfare systems that are built up, whether they are about pensions or other rights. There were some of the questions I was concerned about when we put down the Shared Economics Committee. I record that there are a little divided opinions about how big this problem really is. Some believe that wider regulation needs to be applied. Others feel that this is not necessary. I want to take the time now to go thoroughly through the answers to this, because I think it is important to make the right decision. At the same time, the other side of it is that these are opportunities for many who today have no connection to the world of work at all. So we also have to look at the possibilities arising from many of these new businesses. It increases access for many into the labour market, and it is also positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e351	I understand that the Minister of Finance will look closely at the work of the sample, but the Minister of Finance can already say something concrete about how she sees fit to ensure that the more and more people who are part of the divisional economy as workers will have the same protection and rights as other workers in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e356	Like I said, we all agree on that. But there are a lot of people who organize themselves into the divisional economy -- I really don't like that term because it involves a lot of different businesses, but now let's use that headline for simplicity. Many are involved as self-employed persons and not as employees in an enterprise. And then there are other rules for the processing of rights. It'll probably be like that in the future. So the question here is more to facilitate informed choices, that you are aware of the rights that come with different ways of associating yourself with the world of work. I believe that is also an important part of this. Information and information I think we're going to need more, and at least there's also the tax rate going well through the tax rate.no.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e361	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e368	I will not take advantage of that. I'm just going to notify you that SV will vote in favour of proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e373	Then it's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e378	Let me first thank you for the debate and then comment on some of the recordings. It is said that there are many lost years, but I do not see any concrete proposals that have come forward that would reduce any lost time. Much of the work you want and want is already in progress. I record a concern that I have heard in several places, namely maintaining a transport service in the districts. There are many possibilities for looking at alternatives here, for example: all municipalities have an offer for TT transport, and it is possible to enter a requirement to drive in the offer to do so. It would be thought that one could solve some of the challenges you see with increased competition within, for example. the taxi industry. Then I heard that the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, remembered that the undersigned had encouraged Uber to continue his business. I would also like to remind you that Uber is not illegal as a company in Norway. They pay taxes in Norway and have parts of their business that are fully rights-based and are legally valid. I also heard that the Central Party believed that we had not supported the formulations that came from the minority in the Workers' Party and the Center Party. I mean, we have, it's just that we've worded differently. Among other things, we have Discussions in our remarks on the report to the Tax Directorate, but it may seem that the opposition has actually written its comments before the referral by the rapporteur was delivered. So I heard with pleasure that SV says you shouldn't tax technology development, that it's never a good answer, and I think that's very, very good. Perhaps they should consider also looking at taxes on wealth for working capital as part of the solution for this. I record that even though we – or I – talk about better regulation, it sounds like the opposition always hears that we say we regulate less. Then I just quote myself again: it is our task to ensure that both old and new ways of organising new services are subject to regulation – including taxation – that underpins the creation of values through the efficient use of resources. So there doesn't have to be a contradiction between what the opposition wants and what we're saying.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e393	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e398	It's always nice to have a visit from Heidi Nordby Lunde. We can't let everything become a debate on property taxes, but I think that once the theme of taxing technology development has first come up, it's worth remembering that it was the government itself that narrowed down with a 1.8 billion tax increase. kr in the year's budget at lower depreciation rates on investments in machinery and equipment, not the opposition. SV was the party that proposed to reverse this cut, and so in Heidi Nordby Lunde's own analysis must be said to be the country's most technology-friendly party, also in tax policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e404	I'm not going to go into all the debates here, but I think it was an interesting debate that was about to come up between the State Council of Jensen and Snorre Serigstad Valen, which is really about: When are you a worker? The Council of State says that there is a broad consensus in this Chamber that we are all too safe and good work. I think everyone thinks that, but how we choose to organize it, what we're doing, is also getting something to say for how things are solved. And when you say that many people organize themselves into the divisional economy by being self-employed, and thus are not covered by being an employee, it is of course right, but it is also part of the problem. I am probably also quite sure that there was something of what Serigstad Valen was aiming for. The question then arises: Is one really a self-employed person when one does not have the ability to determine the price of his product? There's no way to negotiate the price of the product, you're given the price of the one you're running for, the technology you choose to be in, in the sharing economy. In many ways it looks much more like being an employee than being a self-employed person. And then the question is, are you allowed to be a self-employed person in all areas – in what could be considered a more ordinary job? I think one of the big challenges of the sharing economy is to look at who it is that has the power -- the economic power, the organisational power -- in the relationship in which you are inside. Before you can solve it and define it better, I think we're going to see that ordinary people, at the very bottom, are the ones who will somehow get the worst out, even though it's true as Jensen says, that more people get the opportunity to get into the labour market. Many people may be given the opportunity to share more of their labour force, but it is also our responsibility to ensure that it is done in a good way for them, and not only in a good way for those to whom they choose to make their labour force available. The Labour Party has announced that this is something that we want to include in the programme, and that we are going to look at if we were to have government power for the autumn – I see that Jensen is not so sure, but we can disagree about it. I believe, however, that this is also a kind of debate on the sharing economy that we must have – not just about taxes, not just about what technology we are going to use, but about how this affects the organisation of Norwegian working life in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e419	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e435	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e444	First of all, I would like to thank the representatives from SV for promoting an important proposal, which gives the Storting the opportunity to speed up the government's work in this area. It seems like it's worked. The Minister of Finance has already had a press conference on some of the issues. Just before we went to the hall today, I Googled 'unsecured credit'. Then I got almost 40,000 hits, and on top there were some ads. Bank Norwegian offered me a loan of up to NOK 600 000. In addition, I found a two-minute credit card offer of up to NOK 150 000 and a competitor offering a five-minute credit card. These are the actors that this case is about: the unprofessional actors in an industry that has been ‘flattened’, as we say in Stavanger. For the Workers' Party, the enormous growth in consumer loans has shown that more needs to be done to regulate an industry that has been free to control for a long time. For most consumers, credit cards are a good thing. I think the whole room agrees on that. Credit cards are in demand and form a natural part of the total private economy for most. But Stortinget is responsible for taking action, regulating and securing a serious industry, not least now that we see developments going in the wrong direction. In the autumn of 2014, VG wrote about the single mother who, within a few months, worked several hundred thousand kroner in credit card debt after she became unemployed. The money didn't go away. In 2014, the credit card debt to Norwegian households was staggering 72 billion. kr. It had gone up quite dramatically, from 55 billion. kr the previous year. Since then it has accelerated, and towards the end of 2016 the credit card debt is over 90 billion. kr – a growth of 15 pst. from the previous year only. I think it is particularly worrying to see the increased consumer debt that they have under 30 years of age. The financial supervision showed that even if borrowers under 30 years of age have a low proportion of households' total consumption loans, they have the highest default as a percentage of outstanding loans. For the Workers' Party, this development shows that there is a huge need for stricter regulation and more restrictions, so that we ensure one mainly more serious industry. Therefore, to some of the proposals that have been made: It is no secret that the Workers' Party wants a public debt register. In 2013, there was a proposal for a public debt register from the red-green government. The state's collection centre in Mo in Rana was ready to start right away. Then, in 2013, the total debt from uncertain consumption loans was 55 billion. kr. Since then, there have been three seasons of the Lucerne trap, and the total debt has grown by a total of 35 billion. kr. It's now a total of 90 billion. kr. The government has again given us three lost years, but fortunately, one now awake and clear – after three to four years – has to make a proposal. But I think it is quite timely with the criticism that the opposition comes with. This should have happened before. It's the ones that have entered the negative debt spiral, which are the victims here. Not least, it is timely with the proposal that we are making today, to put in place quickly an evaluation that will ensure that this is a good proposal and that the debt register is working properly. We're in addition to introducing an interest rate cap. 14 EU countries have done so. This is a proposal that is about taking the unprofessional actors. For us, it is not about whether to introduce it, but about how to introduce it. That is what is in our proposal. I think it is a pity that the Christian People's Party and the Left are in favour of the vague proposal of the government parties, and I understand from the press conference that the Minister of Finance has almost already rejected this proposal. In addition, I understood that the main content of the press conference today was about aggressive marketing. In the letter to the Committee, the Council of State was pending. The press conference today apparently dealt with the implementation of the EU's mortgage directive, but it appears to be a minimal tightening, and I expect the Council of State to clarify to the Grand Council what ambitions the government has and what the real content of the proposal is. It is a pity that there is a minimum degree of tightening compared to what was in the consultation proposal, and I hope that the proposals are more comprehensive than it seems. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions we have in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e469	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e474	Debt is something most people have. In our country, the most common form of debt relates to housing and other necessary borrowing purposes. Since many people in Norway own their own homes, the consequence is that most people have some significant debts linked to this purpose. As a rule, this type of debt is relatively trouble-free. The value of the dwelling shall, as is known, exceed the borrowing requirement and as such the loan shall be manageable. Credit is another type of debt. Most of us have a credit card, and maybe even more. This is considered a good and a practical form of deferment of some payments. Financial corporations consider this to be a natural part of the product range available. In the present case, a number of other debt issues have been identified, in particular the consequences of over-indebtedness. The proposers have listed 11 points and proposals for action. Since some time since the proposals were put forward, there has been a public debate, and on the part of the government, there are already several aspects of the matter. There is no doubt that the consumption debt in Norway has grown to a large extent. It is now intended for approx. 90 B.C.E. kr, a total growth of 15 pst. in 2016. Many have a lack of knowledge about the consequences of over-indebtedness. What's the level of interest rate that kind of loan has, is also a lot of people don't have. Unfortunately, the consequences of such a lack of insight are very serious for many. The majority of the Committee has chosen to identify three main areas and issues related to them. The government is now submitting the Debt Information Act. It is proposed here, among other things: the establishment of a private debt register, as indicated by the majority of the Committees. When such a register is in place, it will no longer be possible to obtain credit and loans without being disclosed in the register. In the hearing held in the Committee and in the other public debate, the issue of the imposition of a ceiling on interest rates has been highlighted as a good response to some of the unfortunate aspects of over-indebtedness. This has been introduced in several comparable countries. The aim is to reduce access to credit and, in particular, to the low income groups. While there may be arguments for several disadvantages at such an interest rate ceiling, the majority of the Committee proposes to ask the government to assess such a measure and to enable the Stortinge to obtain such an assessment. The third point on which it focuses is to limit aggressive marketing. Whether this point is the committee group. Now, most of us would like to have the economic freedom to use more forms of loan and credit. It is also our responsibility to acquire knowledge of our own economy. But there are unfortunately many examples that the intermediaries of consumer credit can be very ongoing, and that many fall for the temptation to borrow they really can't serve, and that they might not even have thought of taking up. There is therefore every reason to take a closer look in the area of marketing and action in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e491	Consumption loans are an increasing proportion of the debt of the Nordics. For most people, this kind of loan can provide a more liberal economy and greater freedom of action, but unfortunately it can also lead to those with major economic problems getting even deeper into a crisis. It is therefore gratifying that more measures have been put forward by the government today. A debt register listing all consumer debts can ensure that some of those that should not have more debt are refused further borrowing. Today, banks and financial corporations are dependent on information from the borrower and the last declaration, which only shows what was the debt situation at the end of a year. The new Debt Information Act, which is now being presented, will contribute to a better rating of Norwegian borrowers. More information and better credit treatment will be good both for the financial industry, which can take on a sound risk, and for consumers, who will not receive more loans than they can serve. Some parties believe that the central government collection centre will be a natural operator to operate the debt register. The party considers this to be unnecessary because private individuals can run a business as well as the public. Several countries have debt registers operated by private individuals, including Sweden. Such companies shall, of course, operate under official authorisation and under the supervision of the public. Consumption loans are provided by several actors, most of whom are serious, but unfortunately not all. Some of them have very aggressive marketing, and the processes can go too fast for most. It is therefore necessary to ensure better time for consumers to assess the impact of new debt obligations before large consumption loans are paid out. Fortunately, the vast majority of providers are serious, they want sound credit treatment and offer good offers to their customers. This can be seen, among other things. by the fact that credit card providers have already adapted to the requirement to send invoices for the entire amount outstanding and not just for the minimum payment. Interest rate caps on consumer loans are an action that has been called for by several parties. Interest caps on unsecured credit may lead to increased demand for unsecured credit, and a study carried out for the European Commission in 2010 could not demonstrate that a cap on interest rates leads to smaller debt problems or lower interest rates for consumers. A high rate of interest can become the norm and increase the average interest rate for consumer loans, which is currently about 12 pst. A low interest rate ceiling that does not allow for pricing uncertainty or risk may prevent a number of people from borrowing and thereby weaken their financial autonomy. These matters are now under consideration by the Government of the Committee. Consumers shall be able to raise all types of loans. It is also necessary for operators to be regulated. It is important that customers know what the interest rate is, that they know what they have outstanding, and that they know what it will cost to defer a payment. Young people between the ages of 18 and 25 have growing debt collection and too many young people receive payment notes and do not have the necessary knowledge of the consequences of using credit cards or raising expensive loans to cover over-exploitation. Lack of knowledge of interest computation, and thus inability to distinguish between good and bad loan offers, is a major problem. As an individual, as consumers, we have to take the consequences of all economic choices, but it is a prerequisite for making proper economic choices that we understand the consequences of the bad ones. Therefore, knowledge of economics is important, and therefore it is so good and absolutely necessary that the personal economy has become a major part of school education both in the youth and in higher education. Here, a very good effort is already being made by Young Entrepreneurship in cooperation with the financial industry and School Menu.no.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e506	Just to follow up on the last one: When my daughter came home last week, we were told that now she was going to set up a budget – greet the school. It is clear that this issue is on the agenda. We haven't fully met that budget yet, but we tend to be overtime when it comes to budgets both here and there, so it'll finally work out. There is an important issue for SV's representatives here, and I hope it is also pleasing to SV that this is actually a decision that can have a good meaning. I'll get into some of the majority decisions we get. First to the interest rate ceiling: I think the representative here had a good assessment of the pluses and the minuses. So the representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg said that the proposal to ‘assess appropriateness’ is a little weak. Now it says in the Workers' Party's proposal 'explained the possibility', but I may not think the difference is so great. Anyway, I can just ask the council to confirm that you want a serious assessment that has in itself both advantages and disadvantages, that we get something we can look at, and not just a kind of clear statement that no, we don't want this. But I'm sure we'll hear about that in the post of the Council of State. Then there's another thing that I think is a good reason to look at. Let's take an example: let's say you went into a store to buy a TV, and then, when you get to the box, you were presented with the opportunity to buy this TV on credit and discount. But if you pay cash, you don't get a discount. I believe – and that is what is stated in Decision II – that this kind of thing must be tackled. It doesn't look like anything. Here we know what the reason is, and that's to wonder if you're raising a consumption loan that the issuer is going to earn, and that you're going to have to pay less for initially than if you're paying cash. It doesn't belong anywhere. Then to Decision IV — an assessment of ‘a short withdrawal period for unsecured consumer loans’. We're very happy to have a majority for that. You often need a cooling period when you get such a good offer that it's probably too good to be true. Unfortunately, it is often the case that those who make those offers are those who have the least opportunity to follow up their commitments in retrospect. This was a proposal we also tried to make towards the red-green government. It didn't fall into that good taste then, but now at least there's a majority position where, from our point of view, this becomes an important theme to follow up from the government. Then we are pleased with what has come today – with debt registers – from the state councils that have been at the press conference, and also to look at the marketing used in terms of consumer loans. Finally, this was a theme of the budget negotiations. It is a separate request decision that goes on this very topic that SV here takes up, so I expect that we all look forward to getting the result of what comes eventually from the government. I feel that we have a little broken ground in this area, and that together we can contribute to more tidy conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e523	I want to give tribute from myself and the Left to the proposers to bring up a case in an important area – the closure of debt traps. There are also reasons for boasting to the government, which in the past has made various proposals in terms of debt issues, among others. creation of a debt register and restrictions on the marketing of consumer loans – good! Of course, the left is not to ban credit cards or consumer loans, but there is no doubt, as many previous speakers have said, that there are actors here who cynically exploit people's desperation. Without me leading any nine-time statistics on my private paper items, there is little doubt that advertising for consumer loans tops the pile of what is put in the paper can. I'm not going to be long, but I'm going to be able to put out suggestion 3, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e530	The representative of Terje Breivik has thus taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e535	I would like to thank the Committee and, in particular, the President-in-Office for their good work. It's an important breakthrough today in the fight to close down debt traps, and then there's still some that we're going to continue to propose. This case is related to the previous case in some ways because we are going into a time when more and more, especially young people, are going to have a less secure relationship to work than before, a greater degree of temporary work than before. More people are going to have difficulty obtaining mortgages than before, we already see that, and in the media over the last few years, we have seen many examples of borrowing consumption to meet the equity requirement for mortgages. It is quite extreme, but the proposer is familiar with at least one case where the adviser in the bank has himself encouraged the borrower to do so. You could say that's an individual failure, or a single case, but I don't think it is. I think we're structurally in society now building a system that increases the pressure to raise this kind of unsecured credit. Therefore, it is a political responsibility to do something about it, not only with these concrete measures we are discussing today, but also with regard to the housing debate – which is often up in the Stortinget – to ensure that we do not build up an excessive debt burden for the Nordics most. There the Storting has neglected, and there is a lot left. So to this matter: first, I would like to say that it is very gratifying that there will be some tightening in place as a direct consequence of this committee reading. I'm very happy about that, and I think it will have an effect. There are some other things I'm more uncertain about, such as: whether there is a change in reality that the government is now calling the debt register a ‘liabilities information system’. Is it simply a clarification on the part of the government, or is it a dilution of what was intended by the register? Here, I might not have to repeat all the arguments for a public debt register, which I think would be clearly the best. At that time, equal access to information would be provided, and a clearer responsibility would be given – about who is responsible for this information. Not least, it would also be possible to ensure that those who are themselves in a difficult situation and would not have a full overview of their own debt situation would have access to this register, which would make it easier to clean up their own situation. It is also important from a social professional perspective; it would facilitate public too much work in helping many people to get an overview of their own debt situation and start cleaning it up. I am also pleased that the rules for aggressive marketing are being tightened up, as the Minister of Finance announced this morning, but I must say that there should be a particular need for advertising for this kind of unsecured credit at all. This I'm going to come back to a little later, but first just a walk into this ceiling of interest: I don't think it seemed as if the finance minister bubbled by enthusiasm for this idea earlier today, when she was asked by the media. I guess I don't think the Right speaking person has bubbled with enthusiasm in the past either. So we prefer to vote for the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV's proposal for an investigation. So the chairman of the committee might say that it's an unobligatory sentence, too, but if I'm going to be a little bad, it's possible to interpret the decision the Stortinget is now about to make, like the government is going to write a couple of lines about why you don't want an interest rate cap in the next revised budget, and then the case is signed out. I hope that is not the case, but I do not hold my breath in expectation as long as the decision Stortinget is now going to make regarding the interest rate ceiling, is as small a commitment as it is. I think we could have been much more forward-looking in that question. A number of comparable countries operate with interest rate caps. Several countries indicate that it has had a demonstrable effect, e.g. Finland. And so some, like Finans Norway, have claimed in the hearing that an interest rate cap can be problematic because it can strangle the access to this kind of unsecured credit and thus push borrowers into the so-called grey market. But that's an argument that assumes that we're talking about loans that would in any case have been taken up, and the whole point of this kind of loan is that it's not loans that would in any case have been taken up, but that pushes aggressively, and that arises because it creates an artificial need. If Finanz Norway is entitled to object to a cap on interest rates, then it must be the best argument of all to allow marketing for this type of loan. The whole problem with this kind of unprofitable credit is that it's just that people are being pressured – for major consequences afterwards – and that it's not to be seen as regular liquidity or consumption loans. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e559	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has thus addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e565	This is an important theme. Consumption loans are intensively marketed and the market for such loans is growing rapidly. The interest rates on consumer loans are often high, and many loans are defaulting. It is now a good time to assess and discuss the regulation of this market, and whether regulation meets the developments we see, in a good enough way. When we consider the regulation of the market for consumer loans, we must remember that the ability to raise unsecured debt gives us freedom, but that such loans also create great challenges for those who take up loans that they cannot serve. I agree with the proposers that legislation should prevent consumers and households from having debt problems arising from consumer loans. I also agree that debt problems cannot be solved by a single measure. This is why the government is working with a number of measures aimed at the consumer loan market. These measures will both prevent serious debt problems and improve competition to provide sound consumer loans on reasonable terms. I have today, together with the Minister of Justice and Preparedness and the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, presented some of these measures. I note that the Committee is also committed to limiting the aggressive marketing of consumer loans and that, in its recommendation to the Stortinget, the Committee is promoting several proposals related to this. I'm glad that the committee shares the government's concerns that aggressive marketing can help some take up consumption loans they would be better served to be ahead of them. The Ministry of Justice and Defence, as announced earlier today, will lay down a regulation setting a framework for the marketing of consumer loans. Furthermore, tomorrow we will present a bill on debt information companies, also known as the ‘liabilities register’ for Stortinget. As the Committee also believes, a debt register is an important measure. The government’s proposal will improve banks’ ability to do good and proper credit ratings and help people not to take up consumption loans they will not be able to serve. I also think it is important that consumers get good enough information about how much debt they have and how they can pay it down. Therefore, we have today established rules for invoicing credit card debts that will help ensure that this happens. If you want to defer the payment of credit card debts, it must be an active choice from the customer himself. The measures we have put forward today will help prevent people from falling into debt traps. They'll also help make sure that we have a credit market that works well. The measures notified by the government are powerful, but that does not mean that the job has been done. We will continue to work to ensure a cleaner and more efficient market for consumer loans. In this year's Financial Market Communication, which is also being presented to the Storting tomorrow, I include a wide range of consumer loans and the measures we are working on. One might say that the debate we have today is a warm welcome to many important debates that the Stortinget will have in the future, both on the legislative proposal presented by the Council of State Horne, and not least through the examination of the financial market communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e592	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e597	The government seems to have woken up now, after three years. It is good that some suggestions are now being presented. But I'll come back to this with interest rate caps. As the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen also pointed out, there has been some uncertainty about what the government parties think about this. They've said a little different, whether there are spokespersons or the finance minister speaking. I believe that there is clearly a need to get a proper investigation. In Sweden, they have now put down a thorough work where one does not discuss back and forth whether this is a need, but looks at how a Swedish interest rate model should be set up, so that one gets limited to the most unprofessional actors. That's the goal here. So I want to start by asking the Minister of Finance: does the Minister of Finance even see the need for an interest rate cap? Would we be able to have a thorough assessment of how this can be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e602	I can assure the Storting that I will follow up the majority decision that is being taken today linked to asking the government to investigate this relationship more closely. I think it's important that we do that, because it's not obvious that an interest rate ceiling is a good answer to these challenges. There is a very good study carried out by the European Commission which could not demonstrate that debt problems improved in countries that had introduced this. So there's both the benefits and the disadvantages of a cap on interest rates, and -- just let me say it -- even if you set a cap on interest rates, there's still going to be a much higher interest rate on this kind of debt than on the mortgages, to say it a little bit cautious. It's about this being unsecured debt, and then it's more expensive, so it doesn't solve the problem. But that there are advantages and disadvantages to this – yes, it is. That's why we're going to come back with an assessment of the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e607	No, no one has claimed that an interest rate ceiling will solve everything, but there are 14 EU countries that have now introduced it and have found their model to implement it. I believe the Minister of Finance and I have read that EU report a little differently from 2010 because it also states that an interest rate cap has had a limiting effect. It has limited access to credit, not least to the low-income groups, of which several speakers have previously been involved. But I did not feel that I received any direct answer from the Minister of Finance: Does the Minister of Finance and the Government think that there is a need for an interest rate cap? Does she see that Norway should do as other EU countries do and look at a Norwegian model to introduce a ceiling on interest rates?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e612	The government has today briefed on the measures we believe are the most urgent towards the consumer loan market. It's about the regulation that the Ministry of Finance is laying down today, it's about the bill that the Council of State Horne is presenting tomorrow, and it's about the regulation from the Ministry of Justice and Defence to come into force with effect from 1 January next year. As regards the ceiling on interest rates, the government has not assessed it in this round. But I will follow up the decision that will be made in Stortinget today, and provide a thorough assessment of both the benefits and the disadvantages of this. But I have not taken a final position on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e619	I think it is interesting for Stortinget to get a little clearer answers on how the Council of State wants to follow up this decision. I think the comments of the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen were timely there. Can we expect some lines in the revised budget where one rejects this proposal, as this government has done so many times with similar proposals, or can we expect a thorough investigation? I ask you that with reference to the Swedish model. In Sweden, one has now chosen to set up a sample, do this thoroughly, include experts, on which the Minister of Finance was concerned in the previous case, not just sit in the Ministry of Finance and discuss over the cup of coffee. Can the Minister of Finance guarantee that we now get a thorough job, not just some lines of revised work?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e624	As I have said in the two previous answers, there are both advantages and disadvantages with an interest rate ceiling. Then you have to argue through all the questions if you want to give a full feedback to the Stortinget on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e629	In the previous debate, we discussed the sharing economy and the new opportunities offered by technology. I'm looking at one of them here and now, and that's Bank Norwegian. I'm on their website. Here I can get a loan at a maximum effective interest rate of 39.68 pst. Sees the Minister of Finance any appropriateness in providing commercial loans with an interest rate of 39.68 p.m. anywhere in Norway. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e634	The market for consumer loans is incredibly complex. It's a lot of actors. Let me start by saying that Finans Norway has made an industry standard. It is voluntary, but that means that all those who want to follow it, and who are members of Finans Norway, have already come a long way in implementing good standards that help to guide customers in a good way. Then there are other market players, who may not be as interested in this industry standard, who are now going to have to follow the new regulations that the government has initiated. I believe that this will help to make completely different demands on the entire industry. I also want to stress that there are not only challenges related to consumer loans and credit cards. The vast majority of us have great pleasure in it, as long as we pay down in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e642	I agree with the Minister of Finance's last remark. Being able to raise consumption loans and alleviate liquidity problems there and there is an important factor for many, and most people are doing just fine. But then there has been a market for unprofitable loans of this kind, which affect individuals very hard, and which hit more and more very hard, and there is a situation where the debt growth in Norway is to be very worried about. That's why I want to drill a little bit more in this with a ceiling on interest rates, because I'm glad that the government is now starting to promote a lot of different measures to make progress. When the finance minister says that there are good arguments for and against interest rate caps, of course, I'm familiar with the good arguments for, so I'm in favour. But can the Minister of Finance make some of the good arguments against imposing a ceiling on interest rates in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e649	Let me first say that precisely because there are a lot of actors in this, and because many of the terms offered make it quite expensive, perhaps the most important measures the government is launching today, both that we collect a lot of information about this in what has been referred to as a debt register, and not least that we are slowing down in marketing this type of loan. It is the aggression and the pace, and the fact that too much information is in small print and is not available, which has created part of the challenges of debt growth, especially in the most vulnerable households. That is what is worrying. Currently, this represents a relatively small proportion of the total debt, 3 pst., but growth is alarmingly high. That's why we have to do something about it. I am not sure that interest rate caps are the answer to this, but I believe there are several measures that need to be taken to dampen the pace of this market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e656	Thanks for the answer. But would it not be possible to say that precisely tightening up, precisely making sure that marketing becomes more serious and precisely supporting the work of Finance Norway for an industry standard that makes it easier to distinguish between serious and unprofessional actors, are in itself good arguments for an interest rate cap? If you do not want to isolate the aggressive actors that the Minister of Finance is talking about, who will eventually, if the Minister of Finance is right in his assumptions, be the only ones who offer loans to, for example. 39.68 pst. interest?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e663	One of the arguments against a cap is that in any case you do not get away with the high interest rate that must necessarily be on unsecured debt. It's a higher interest rate because the debt is not secured. Now it's on average 12 p.m., according to calculations by the Bank of Norway. So there's some rash that's significantly higher than that, but anyway it's a high interest rate. This means that if you don't pay off your debt, it accumulates at a fast pace and creates debt problems. Therefore, it has been important to provide more information. That is why I believe the regulation that the Ministry of Finance lays down today is an important step, because it is that when you get your invoice, you should be able to make informed choices, and it should be your choice if you do not actually choose to pay off what you should do from one month to the next, but then you should know what the consequences are.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e668	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e675	I would like to thank you for the debate. It was asked whether the opposition sees that things are happening now, and whether we're not happy about it. Well, we're glad the government has finally woken up, but it's not a cheer you get from the opposition. Only since this government joined has the share of unsecured consumer loans increased by a total of 35 billion. kr, while several thousand Norwegians have been in debt problems. It is a development of this government and the Left and Christian People's Party must take responsibility for it. One has to ask whether the Christian People's Party and the Left are satisfied with the answers you have received from the finance minister here today. It's a pretty clear rejection that one should look further at interest rate caps. I would like to remind you once again of the investigation that came from the EU in 2010, which shows that an interest rate ceiling will reduce access to credit and in particular work against low-income groups, which the Christian People's Party was so concerned about. An interest rate ceiling will work, but the Minister of Finance is unwilling to look at this. I hope the Christian People's Party and the Left – at least in the back room – have been given some guarantees that this is not just some lines in connection with the revised national budget, the RNB. Then we will see again that there are years lost in order to take the necessary action – several will end up in debt problems. This will only continue to grow when one is not willing to take the necessary grips. The working party is quite clear that there is a need to limit aggressive marketing. Once again, the answers given by the Council of State seem to be at least one of today’s introductions, compared to what one sent at the hearing. It seems that you have listened most to the industry and less to the consumers. Although SV has made ten good proposals, gets a majority for a few and the government has woken up, I am absolutely sure that there will be a need for the Stortinget to take new action in time to come, so that one will not allow this development to continue in a negative direction. Here we don't have a government that's on the ball, so I hope the Storting will continue that work and make sure that the development doesn't continue in a negative direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e686	It is possible that the representative Tvedt Solberg and I have a slightly different hearing, but I then heard knowingly that the Council of State said that the government should go through thoroughly and come back to Stortinget with the assessment related to interest rate caps. I don't need any back room guarantees when I've heard it in the open room, to say it like that. As I said, I really do not see any difference in what the Labour Party has proposed, and the majority has proposed, if not the Labour Party has now concluded in advance. Rather, such a proposal should be promoted – promoting a case with a ceiling on interest rates, a sentence. Because that was knowing what I heard in the last article. But we're open to interest rate caps, and we're looking forward to that assessment. Lost years – well, I don’t have so much need to always defend the sitting government, but it’s despite all this government that provides a debt register, which we were dealing with, the red-green ones, in I don’t know how many years, but there was nothing of it. It is this government that is now given a mission, and a majority is behind a short withdrawal period of unsecured consumer loans, a proposal the red-green rejected when they themselves were in position. So there are many lost years we can talk about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e695	Finally, there was a proposal that was completed and could have been dealt with in the Stortinget during 2013 or the beginning of 2014. It was pulled by the previous government, so unfortunately it's lost years. I'm glad you're moving very little, though with mouse-skrit, in a very serious case, which actually creates disaster in the lives of many people, namely that they end up in debt traps. I'm very concerned that we're going to have systems that enable people to make up for themselves. It's very important. Then it's important that there are no such traps that you can go into, that you end up with a debt you can't handle, because few of us are able to serve debt interest as they are in some of the unsecured loan market. We also know – and we can disapprove of it – that someone who comes into debt problems is taking on new debts, which they should never have, and which they cannot pay, because they are in a very panic-carded situation. I have been following this for many years, and that is why I have been the initiator of the proposal that is being discussed today, which I think is a very small one. I'm very surprised that you can't go in now and for example. regulate the interest rates on unsecured debt, for it is a matter of being able to settle the debt separately. It also has something to do with the fact that the person who gives such debt has to take a little more responsibility, first of all, to check that the people to whom the money is lent, unsecured, have the opportunity to pay, and second, that if they don't have it, you get a little less profit trying to trick people into "accumulating". I hear you say that the investigations you've had in other countries have not worked as you've wanted, but it's probably one interpretation of the results. Another interpretation of those results is that fewer actually take up liabilities that they would never have had. There are many of the proposals we are making today, which should have been given a majority, so that the government would have started a concrete investigation of it now. Because there is a little difference between evaluating whether to evaluate or actually taking action. And it is necessary, because both individuals and society are losing that so many who are now falling into debt and are unable to make up for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e708	I would also like to remind the Christian People's Party that there was a proposal for the Stortinget on a debt register in 2013. The government, which the representative Syversen so happily supported and imprisoned, drew that proposal and is now finally coming, three to four years later, with a proposal. I was also asked questions about my hearing, and that question can be put back to the representative Syversen, because when it comes to interest rate caps, I was quite clear in my post. For the Workers' Party, this is not an assessment of whether an interest rate ceiling should be applied, but our proposal is based on how one should implement this. 14 EU countries have done so. The important thing for us is to do like Sweden: get an investigation into how the best device for a Norwegian interest rate ceiling can be, where the goal must be to take the unprofessional actors. It is clear from both the proposal and the comments. Unfortunately, I have little faith that a reluctant state council, as we have heard today, and which has also said the same at the press conference, will deliver miracles here. The Christian People's Party has a belief in miracles, so maybe there's something coming, but I hope this will be taken seriously by the government. I hope we don't just get some lines revised, that we get it the proper way you see that the government in Sweden has handled this, but I'm afraid we have to go back to this room to get the government back on track.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e715	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e720	It's clear that when Torstein Tvedt Solberg pulls up miracles, it's hard not to take the word. If the Council of State now nods to what I'm saying, that this is going to be a solid and thorough assessment, and if I get the ear of the Council of State, we assume that. Otherwise we have to consider a vote that is different, that with interest rate caps this becomes a solid and thorough assessment. It's nod, I'm happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e728	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e744	It's a saying that waiting for a joy is also a joy. So, after mentioning miracles, nodding and discussion about who hears the best or the worst, we are dealing with this matter. This representative proposal by Hans Olav Syversen and Rasmus Hansson proposes that ‘The government be asked to develop a gross national quality of life target as a complement to gross domestic product as soon as possible’. The theme has been in the UK in the past, through an interpellation with the Minister of Finance from Dagfinn Høybräten in 2007 and through a thorough examination of a proposal by the Christian People's Party in 2009. This resulted in a mention of quality of life indicators in the national budget. We can all rejoice that Norway has just been named the world's happiest country, followed by Denmark, Iceland and Switzerland in the next places. Factors that in this context are important to people's happiness are care, freedom, shyness, honesty, health, income and good governance. The fact that we are in the position we are is a consequence – not least – of good political craftsmanship over many decades. Then it's important that we make sure that we distribute well, and that everyone is involved and gets their share of the quality of life and the opportunity that our society offers. While the proposal by the representatives of Syversen and Hansson on new objectives for social development and increased emphasis on quality of life in the development of society has good intentions, the Committee, with the exception of the representative of the Christian People's Party, who is also one of the proposers, nevertheless believes that it is not appropriate to work towards a single objective of national quality of life. Quality of life has many dimensions, and different people may have different views on how this should be assessed against each other. The majority of the Committee endorses the conclusions of the Minister of Finance's letter to the Financial Committee dated 11 November 2016. The letter gives a good description of how to secure and consolidate necessary information and statistics on well-being and quality of life, in line with what the OECD recommends. In the vote, the majority agrees that ‘it is important that we in Norway further develop our own statistics and make use of the possibilities to compare ourselves with other countries that the figures from international bodies give us’. We also refer to the Council of State's description of how the Central Statistical Office conducts analyses of living conditions and well-being. I have recorded that the Christian People's Party in its final proposal in the vote has gone from talking about ‘a measure of gross national quality of life’ to now asking ‘the government to develop as soon as possible an overall system for measuring gross national quality of life’, so something has obviously happened along the way. However, the majority of the Committee believes that we already have satisfactory data, systems and practices to measure the different aspects of quality of life, and that we therefore also have the basis for emphasising quality of life when we set our societal goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e765	I have to say that what the rapporteur said was a very kind contribution when you are going to vote it down anyway – it is to be said, so all credit to the representative Hagebakken for it. But he also said that Norway is “the happiest country in the world”, at least we have been measured for it. Sometimes when you hear the debates here in the Chamber, you might be a little bit in doubt if it can vote, but when Tore Hagebaken has said that, it's probably correct. As Mr Hagebakken said, this is not a new matter. It has been discussed before, in an interview, and we had a large consultation in the Financial Committee in connection with the previous sales of representatives. It is true that a description of indicators of quality of life has been included in the budget. What's interesting is how this has evolved further internationally. The OECD spends a lot of time and effort, because they see that today's GDP measurement actually shows very little of how society works, and what it is of indicators that give a good idea of how quality of life really is. It's really saying itself, it's not just economic goals that say something about how we feel. I take it as my briefing that the majority believe that the report provided in the annual budgets is sufficient, and that we are waiting for what the OECD and the UN will continue to work on for national development of these parameters. I wish we were a little bit more forward. We have taken it seriously that one goal is not correct. Then we have tried to adjust the text of the proposal. If that can make anyone vote for it, we're happy for it. Otherwise, I take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e776	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e781	I am somewhat disappointed that the proposer did not use the full range of speaking time to illuminate his own proposal. That's a rare possibility he's now squandered away. And I can see if he believes that there is an opportunity that the Stortinge is also shoving away, when there are few parties joining the representative proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Green Party. I want to explain a little bit about why we in SV are not part of the minority. I fully share the objective of the proposers, both that we need good information on how the citizens of Norway are doing, how their quality of life is, and, not least, that the policies we adopt should contribute to improving the quality of life. I just think there's a trap in the assumption that such things can easily be measured, and that it's a goal to measure such things. The idea is brought a little to the debate on ecosystem services, i.e. the concept that a person should be able to quantify natural values as part of an assessment of whether this is so. it is appropriate to build something or not and place a crown sum on a species, on a rare landscape, on cultural landscapes or on rare biotopes. And that's a good idea. In a society where most things are measured and weighed, in a society governed by the measurement and counting logic described by the Sevens, it can be tempting to say: Yes, but then we also have to measure the things that are most important, and that have the greatest value for us, such as: the natural values, animal life, etc. But one can quickly go into opposite traps and, through such a system, do some things into accounting that shouldn't be. From the point of view of individuals, it will be easier to downgrade, for example: natural values of high value if one can set a price tag on it. After all, there is no shortage of money that is often the problem for the forces that are building down important natural values. It's going to be some kind of breeding -- above what it was supposed to be. I get a bit the same feeling in this debate. It's because quality of life is so very different things for different people. Life quality can be living a life that is very different from life to most people in Norway, or it could be having a normal, completely calm, life. We get quality of life from very different things. Only by creating one set of specific indicators of Norwegian quality of life will we help to narrow down what a good life really is. I don't think it's a trick, especially in a time that's now, when everything has to be measured, weighed, counted and made subject to calculations, before we adopt policies. I think it is more important and more appropriate to focus on what we know about quality of life when we adopt the policy for which we are responsible. I think it's more important and more correct that as many people as possible here in the Stortinget are reading the 'Price of inequality' of Pickett and Wilkinson, about how increased inequality leads to lower quality of life in a number of countries around the world, and about how societies with small differences, such as Norway, also get many positive side effects from it, such as lower crime, lower infant mortality and, not least, higher trust in each other. I don't think it's possible to make the very most important things in life measurable units, and I think there's a not very large, but a little dangerous potential in adopting it. That is why we do not agree with the representative proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Greens' Greens' Party – without the need to be interpreted as a lack of commitment to the goal of the highest quality of life possible for as many people in Norway as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e798	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e814	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. According to the President's list, the first speaker is Mr Svein Harberg, who is also the rapporteur on the matter. However, he is not in the room. Are there other members of the family and culture committee who are asking for the floor in the case? If we don't have to either cancel the meeting or wait. Kårstein Eidem Løvaas has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e827	I took the floor to inform them that the rapporteur had just set up the committee meeting when it called for a new case. He's on his way. While we wait, the President will have to consider whether the meeting should be postponed until further notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e832	The President will draw attention to the fact that there is no excuse to be late for a matter to be brought up in the Chamber. This is case No. 4th@item: inlistbox You have to keep an eye on what's going on in the hall. [[The Committee enters the Chamber.]] It was just before we cancelled the meeting and had to call again. The President-in-Office has now been rescued by the representative of Eidem Løvaas, who took the floor as the first speaker. The case rapporteur, Mr Svein Harberg, is given the floor, and the President will again remind you that when you are on the list of speakers you will be so good to be in the Chamber. So there was one person from the family and culture committee present when we announced case no. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e837	I just take the word to say that I have not been absent from the list of speakers. I have not asked for the floor, nor should I have the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e842	The Government has put forward this proposition to request the consent of the Storting to the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of three EU acts on consumer complaints. We have done so because both legislative and budgetary decisions are necessary for the implementation of the legislation in Norway. We have a good complaint handling offer in Norway, and in recent years the government has strengthened it further. It is important that consumers are able to have a quick and inexpensive decision in a complaint case without having to go to the courts. The offer must be of good quality so that consumers can feel secure in order to deal with the matter in a orderly and sound manner. That problems are solved is not only important for the individual consumer, but it is also important for the trader, who gets feedback on what is not good enough. It is positive that the matter is resolved quickly and fairly for both parties. Ensuring a wide range of good quality complaints has been one of my main priorities as a consumer minister, and from the summer of 2015 Norwegian consumers have had the opportunity to deal with complaints on almost all kinds of goods and services, such as removal agency, hairdresser or hotel accommodation. This initiative is related to EU legislation now incorporated into the EEA Agreement. EU legislation requires all countries to have a good quality complaint offer for almost all types of goods and services. In addition, the Commission has established a web-based portal for dealing with complaints in cross-border trade. The portal shall facilitate cross-border complaints. The consumer may lodge a complaint in the portal, which shall find the appropriate body of complaint and communicate between the consumer, the seller and the body of complaint in question. The idea is that everyone should be able to complain in their own language. The portal is in all official EU languages and comments and attachments to the complaint are translated by machine translation. It has taken time to have those acts incorporated into the EEA Agreement. There have been some complications, including: related to the languages of the complaint portal. The quality of the Norwegian translation is not yet good enough. That is why we have asked European consumers to use funds to improve the quality of machine translations. This is also mentioned in the consent proposition. Consumers Europe has met some challenges, and it is therefore uncertain whether we can achieve better quality in the short term. However, consumers will receive good help, and the portal contact points can help translate if necessary. When all three EFTA-EEA countries abolish their constitutional reservations, the decision of the EEA Committee will enter into force. It is expected to take place on 1 June, in which case Norwegian consumers will have access to complaints bodies in all EEA countries. Two months later, approx. On 1 August, they will also have access to the pan-European complaint portal. Finally, we have put in place a good complaint handling system for Norwegian consumers, whether they are at home, travelling or online in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e861	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e877	As in the previous case, there are discussions from the Family and Culture Committee. At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e888	First of all, I would like to thank the committee for its good cooperation on this issue as well. The members of the Committee are in agreement on the objective of ensuring a commercial public broadcaster in Norway. This is important in order to have a good media offer and diversity that hits the broad population, and to ensure a competitor to the NRC. Report. St. 14 for 2016-2017 aims to facilitate a commercial general television broadcaster on linear television, as it is called. It has been a political wish from this Chamber for many years that the NRC should be guaranteed a competitor – at least some of us have wanted to be big. The background for this is the desire to ensure a high level of media pluralism throughout Norway. Many people may think that today's situation with many frequencies, a high number of television channels and several audiovisual ordering services in themselves will be a guarantee for this very thing. Nevertheless, the current situation, with only one general broadcaster, cannot in itself be said to be a guarantor of the production of programme categories falling within the general broadcasting concept, such as children's television, cultural programmes or news and news programmes. In this case, it is a question of ensuring funding for the production and display of public broadcasting content by a commercial operator somewhere in Norway. The Progress Party considers that a commercial public broadcaster, in the same way as the NRC through the Broadcasting Council, should be subject to a publicly appointed body following the public broadcaster closely and expressing its opinion on the offer made. It's been a success as long as we've had the NRK, that people out there are being heard. This is important to ensure that the money is spent on the content that is actually meant to hit. In this case, it is a question of using taxpayers’ money to finance content production by a commercial operator. In this context, the public should be able to give feedback on the content through this body, i.e. a broadcasting council also for a new actor. The party further refers to arguments that public service must be seen as a function of society and not an institution. The Party considers that it is legitimate for the State to provide incentives to stimulate content production in niche areas, which are currently said to receive too little attention in a wide-ranging media image. For example, this will be news and cultural content and adapted to children and young people. Nevertheless, in principle, we believe that the mission should not be reserved for one supplier or actor, but for competition between different operators. For the sake of media pluralism, broad competition has also been achieved in this area, in our opinion, in order to ensure good content for all media consumers throughout Norway. We all agree on the importance of a well-established media diversity in Norway, which ensures both the production and display of programmes that are included in the public service broadcasting mission. The discussion therefore addresses how we can maximise production for the money we have at our disposal and ensure that the content produced for this money reaches the widest possible range of Norway’s population — and throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e909	This is a historic day of media politics. Stone on stone builds the Storting what I will call the world's most modern media policy. In this period, we have pressured the government to accept extending the zero VAT to the newspaper industry to digitally as well. We have recently implemented what is the beginning of the closure of the FM network and the digitisation of the radio market. We will later in ours aim to find a new funding for the public broadcaster, and we now see, with the decision we are going to make later today, the fruits of the great media policy deal we had last year, quite exactly one year ago, where the Stortinget, all parties, asked the government to secure a commercial public broadcaster for the future and to establish a system of compensation for the obligations of a public broadcaster. Had it been up to today's government, all these questions had really been put out and pushed them into the so-called Media Diversity Committee. But what's unique in this magnificence period is that it's the Storting, a broad majority, who sits in the driver's seat and says that here we need to ensure the media diversity for the future with tools that no other country has succeeded in. No other country has received zero VAT, nor has there been any other country that has succeeded in ensuring both a public and a commercial public broadcaster. It is important that we have competition in this market too. Firstly, it is important for news production. That gives you better quality. It provides better preparedness in society. And that gives you a better NRK. We have a lot of examples of how this turns out. For example, in the case of the terrorist attack in Paris, TV 2 was first out on direct transmission of the incidents. They dropped out of advertising breaks and drove together with the TV 2 News channel. When we had the fire in Lærdal, TV 2 was practically alone sending direct pictures from the dramatic scenes. And after the "Rocknes" accident, then broadcaster Bernander said that TV 2 had won 17–0 in the cover of the accident. It tells us something about this giving us better preparedness in society, and that all actors have something to reach for, and produce better. It also provides a better offer to the population. The public broadcasters are our main common meeting places, and it is important that we ensure a wide range of offerings to children and young people, to the whole population, to the whole country, ensure contributions to Norwegian films and television dramas and have news production that covers each region of the country. But it's also the combination of general programming and news production that makes this unique. We see that there is an offer that makes a wide range of people, it is with it and increases the awareness of and the possibility of informing the population. We have an example from TV 2, where we see very clearly that you have popular TV shows, and the population is also going to be in the newscasts afterwards. We saw quite recently in connection with the Kendis-Farm, which has been a very popular feature on TV, that almost twice as many viewers as on a regular Sunday saw the news broadcast – once they have become interested in something produced on TV. So short of the process. Despite the fact that we agree very much here, we have been very critical that the government has worked too late on the matter, and that you have not secured enough content. But we're going to end up with the main features of this right now. We believe that more should be done to ensure a wider content for Norwegian citizens and to ensure Bergen as a media city. It suggests that the agreement announced before the summer should have a short duration, so that, after the elections, a new Minister of Culture can start as soon as possible and build the public broadcaster that we want in this house and that Norwegian TV viewers deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e924	The Christian People's Party believes media pluralism is important. In a media reality increasingly governed by market thinking, ensuring this diversity is a political task. This responsibility includes, inter alia: the existence of a real competitor for the NRK. The Christian People's Party believes this competitor should have a seat outside Oslo. A broad news coverage is good in itself and also has emergency services. It is important that the NRK does not have a news monopoly on so-called linear television. Public broadcasters guarantee a diversity of programme categories, including: child and cultural programmes. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that Norwegian language production is maintained. In this way, the Norwegian language and cultural life are strengthened and preserved. I would like to take up with this the proposals of the Christian People's Party on life-vision programmes. The Christian People's Party proposes that life-vision programmes be specified as part of the obligation to disseminate to a commercial broadcaster with public support. We assume that the cost framework does not exceed the State aid ceiling set by ESA. Lifetime vision is an essential part of the cultural media diversity. Therefore, in the same way as life-vision programmes are part of the NRK portfolio, they should be secured by a separate designation in this agreement. Finally, Norway is a society with increasing belief and life views. This means that quality programmes that provide increased insight and understanding of religious beliefs and practices are only becoming more important and important. With this proposal, the Christian People's Party wants to ensure that this need is also met by a commercial public broadcaster.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e935	The representative Hanne Thürmer has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e940	After the closure of the broadcasting monopoly at the end of the 1980s, we have had two public broadcasters on television in Norway. There has been a positive competition for the NRC, and there has also been an enrichment for media pluralism. But it is not that the diversity of the number of broadcasters in itself is a guarantee that the market will produce what we put in the public broadcasting mission, namely to ensure a programme offer for children and cultural, news and topicality programmes and also that much of the production is to be done outside Oslo. The signals were for a long time very strong and unambiguous that there was no economic basis for operating commercial public broadcasting on television with the framework conditions that exist today. That is why the Center Party is very pleased that in February 2016 we reached a settlement in Stortinget where we also agreed that it had to be prioritised. When the Storting debated the public broadcasting news a little over a year ago, a total big deal stressed that it was imperative that the government quickly come up with a model where it would still be economically interesting to produce news outside Oslo. There is no doubt that Stortinget has been a very important driver in order to obtain the case that is being dealt with today. With a near-to-date totalization, you might also have expected a slightly faster pace from the government. Why it was to go almost a year before the government promoted this message, is unfortunately a little difficult to understand, for there was not so much in this message that was not known when the Storting last year made a quite clear decision and had a clear expectation of the government of what an actually wanted. Not surprisingly, the Media Diversity Committee also concluded that it is uncertain whether the market would be able to finance commercial public broadcasting with main seats outside Oslo. Given that the sample did not recommend a specific model, the sample points out that compensation for commercial public broadcasting would be better suited than a model with project grants for the production of general broadcasting content. The centre party is not known in the cultural committee and has therefore not participated in committee proceedings on this matter, but we record the criticisms made by the Workers' Party in the vote, and we share it. We believe that immediately after a new agreement has been concluded, the government should start work on a new future solution for commercial public broadcasting in Bergen, and that the government must also ensure that a future agreement will carry out a broader public broadcasting mission that also ensures a diverse offer across the country. It must be the most important content here, not the search for reasons to avoid challenging the EEA. The centre party is also pleased that one today finally takes the decision, and that the Stortinget has also succeeded in being a strong driver to bring forward the matter that is being dealt with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e957	Public broadcasting is an important media policy response to the democratic, social and cultural needs of society. Here the NRK has a very central place, but it's important for the government that we have a viable commercial public broadcaster, in addition to the NRK, that can contribute to the media diversity that we need. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee has joined in the content of the big message that we are now discussing. The TV offer today is larger than anyone could have imagined a few years ago. Increasing diversity is important, and it strengthens competition. But although we have access to a world of media offers, it is not certain that the market itself will offer public broadcasting content in a nationwide commercial television channel, much less with location outside Oslo. Since 1992, the country has used various instruments to ensure commercial public broadcasting. The assets we have used up to now are no longer of the same value, and that's why the government took the step that we decided to upgrade the state's contribution, by compensating for the first time for a commercial public broadcaster of up to $15 million. euro per year for general programming content, such as daily news broadcasts outside Oslo and offers for children and young people. At the same time, I would like to stress that this is a matter of state aid to one commercial operator and that this aid is limited. It is also natural to assume that the operator has primarily commercial revenues. That the aid will be up to 15 million. In addition, EUR per year means that we can implement the scheme quickly without ESA approval and that the process will then proceed without much delay due to ESA notification. For the government, it is important to see the media policy instruments in context. This is therefore a temporary measure pending an overall assessment of future media policy. In the follow-up to the Media Diversity Committee, we will now have the opportunity to see the media policy as a whole, not just how to secure a commercial public broadcaster, but how to secure our newspapers, how to ensure diversity in radio and television and other channels. I'm glad we have a government that wants to go in and partially compensate for a commercial public broadcaster, and we want to grant up to $15 million. euro per year for the creation of a general programming content that is commercially available. It is important for the competition of the NRK, and I am glad that the government has extended the VAT exemption to the digital platforms. We know that Norwegian media organisations, especially under the Minister of Culture of the Labour Party and the Minister of Finance, worked very long to extend the VAT exemption, but unfortunately they did not succeed. Fortunately, this government got it done, and I think it helps to create the innovation we see in parts of the media industry, which itself tells that an extended VAT exemption for digital platforms was exactly what was going to happen to create innovation in the industry. The Government will publish a commercial broadcasting contract as soon as possible and then interested operators will have to have the time they need to design an offer. The contract will be awarded to the application which best responds to the requirements adopted here today, inter alia, and that operator must have time to set up his business. This matter concerns several provisions of the EEA Agreement. As a result, the Government has ongoing dialogue with ESA on the EEA legal space. I would like to thank the Stortinget for the unanimous support for the notification of a commercial public broadcaster – and that was it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e978	That's it. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e985	Look what's going on, President! I am pleased that the Council of State signals that an announcement should be made as soon as possible. We've seen, as they said in the media, that it's going to happen before summer. The matter has already taken too long. In the issues that the State Council itself mentions in the media policy area, the Council of State has been drawn after the hair of the Stortinge. It was the Stortinget who decided that they wanted to expand the zero VAT rate, and it was stated that they wanted compensation for a commercial public broadcaster. Then the government came on the track. - Enough about that. In the interim call made by the Council of State just before the summer of last year, which was so bad that no one would apply to it, it said that there should be a requirement for a head office in Bergen, while in the wholesale communications underlying this, it is said that making such a requirement would probably be contrary to the EEA Agreement. What has changed in one year, which makes it possible to make such a claim last year, but not this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e994	Now at least I want to be so red that I give the left very much of the credit because we got to zero moms. I think the Workers' Party should be very careful about taking credit for extended zero VAT after working against it for eight years – just so it's said. Now that we've said that we want a head office outside Oslo, it's precisely because of ESA. In order to be sure that we can testably get an agreement on commercial general programming, we are careful to say in the big news that there is a place outside Oslo that is crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1002	The government may remember that in the last growing period, the media industry wanted to have a common low VAT rate of 8 pst. I think most people are happy that that wasn't the result. At first it was the Christian People's Party that wanted to go to zero-zero, then the Workers' Party, and then – happily – was left with and pressed on the government. It's the right story, but now let it lie in this particular debate. What is another challenge in this context is that the government started out wrong in terms of content for a commercial public broadcaster, by defining amounts first to then discuss the content. We believe, as Marit Arnstad said in the pulpit, that you should start with the content, what kind of content we want a commercial public broadcaster to offer the Norwegian people, and then define the amounts after that. In the message, the government says that we have to deal with this ceiling, but in our own investigation that we have ordered from Stortinget, it is established that you are within the Altmark criteria, you can have a higher amount. Why has the government not informed the Storting about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1009	In the big news, we have been subjected to various current and legal bases for public support, including the Altmark criteria, which I believe the representative of Grande is familiar with. On the part of the Ministry of Culture, we note that neither the EU Commission nor ESA have found the Altmark criteria to be met in the field of general broadcasting. We're still in dialogue with ESA, we're going to continue to be, but we've concluded that it's legally insecure. We are committed to putting in place a commercial public broadcaster as quickly as possible, and by assessing compensation up to 15 million. euro per year, we avoid notification, and therefore we chose to conclude as we did.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1014	The problem is that this does not write anything about the government in the Storing Message. You don't tell the Storting about the possibility of having a higher amount if you meet the Altmark criteria. It doesn't say a word about it. It's a well-known case, and it's been a long time for this government, that the Storting wants a compensation scheme for the obligations a commercial public broadcaster has to assume. You have had over a year to work on this matter. You have your own EU Minister, and I am surprised that you have not managed to run processes in parallel that are just exploring the possibilities for doing so. Now I fully agree that there is an urgent need for clarification, and therefore we have to follow this path, but the question is: Why has the Council of State Linda Hofstad Helleland not informed the Stortinget that there are several possibilities for this, instead of just closing the book and saying that the only option is an upper limit of 15 million. euro?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1019	I think I just have to repeat myself, and then the representative Grande can try to listen to what I'm saying. In the Single European Act, we have examined various current and legal bases for support. When I say that we have been in dialogue with ESA about Altmark, and that we conclude that there is a considerable legal uncertainty about using those criteria, I guess the representative of Grande also understands what is in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1024	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1029	I haven't been here very long, but it's the first time I feel that there's such a sharp criticism of something you put behind. In the case of commercial public broadcasting, there has been active organisation for nearly 30 years. In 1990 we received the first decision on nationwide advertising funded TV, and we also know the story: it has been well, it has been a lucrative agreement for those who have been allowed to do so. Then we see – and acknowledge all – that it can be a challenge in the future, including: in a small language and cultural area like our Norwegian, and that the market may not be as lucrative as the arrangements we have had at the moment. So in order to ensure diversity in a small language and cultural market, to ensure competition for the NRC, a real competitor and balance, and to secure voices from multiple places in the country, that is, editors outside Oslo, an agreement for commercial broadcasting is now being initiated. It's also an agreement with a relatively short time horizon, and I'm very happy about that, because we all agree that things are now going faster in the media industry than what we can almost follow. So I have to link some comments to some of the things that have been said, especially from the representatives of red-green parties. I think it's a little strange that you make yourself tall and dark and use a lot of hot air to talk about zero moms, and the representative Grande tried to draw the story here. The real story is that for eight years with the red-green government was the only connection between VAT and zero that it happened zero. In two years with this government was zero VAT a reality. Then it's also strange, when the criticism is as sharp as it is, that no options are presented. There's a lot of time to criticize, but there's no alternative to how you could have done it. Well, by the way, it does, because there's talk that this has taken too long. In the same breath you say that what you should have done was to define the content first and then figure out how much this would cost. Well – it had taken a long time. The way we do it now is the fastest way to do it, and that's the safest way to secure a commercial public broadcaster for the next three to five years. Then I'm glad that the Media Diversity Committee has finally produced its report, so that you can have a comprehensive media policy in the years to come and do not continue with old-fashioned carpets, which in between will become what note you find that very day. Now we get an agreement when this matter is finished today. That's good. That doesn't mean that the work is done, but that means that we have put a case aside because we're done with it now. Then we can work on the whole policy. Then I must finally be allowed to point out that I notice that the representatives of the red-green parties are still surprised that it is the Stortinge that determines. Well, for all of us, it's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1046	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1051	To the representative of Løvaas, I can say that we are not at all surprised that the Stortinge decides. On the contrary, we are glad that the Storting decides, because if it had been up to today's government, nothing would have happened in the media policy area in this majority period. Everything has been pushed into the so-called Media Diversity Committee, and one had to wait until the next growing-up period before anything had happened. The reason I take the floor for the second time is that I have some comments relating to the agreement to be submitted before the summer. In addition to thinking about a much broader defined public broadcasting mission, we also believe that it is important to highlight precisely what is suggested in the communication: the need for Norwegian content – ensuring Norwegian film and television drama, ensuring Norwegian documentary production, Norwegian television entertainment. In the wake of this, it is important to stress from the Ministry that the public broadcaster, which in this case is commercial, but also the work to be done in the Stortinget related to the NRK message, must ensure that there is a clean-up of copyright clearance on its own and third-party platforms, in order to ensure that the public broadcasters we have are lead actors in the area of the clearance of rights. There is good experience of this, and it is important to ensure that in the future a market to which there are many heavy players and quite demanding negotiations attached. This is what we want the Council of State to bring with it to work on the announcement of the agreement before the summer. In fact, the whole process related to commercial public broadcasting has been managed by the Right Department of Culture. We warned early in the pouring period that it was approaching the deadline for the expiry of today's agreement. There was no solution to that in the big news that Thorhild Widvey presented on public broadcasting. Thus, the Storting had to make a broad deal with all the parties, driven by the opposition in the Stortinget, who asked the government to put in place a new arrangement. There was a call before last summer that was so embarrassingly bad that no one would go after it. As a result, the government was forced to come back on the track again. We believe that with faster progress – we have invited to dialogue with the Council of State a number of times – and with a parallel process up against ESA, there was today an agreement that had been better, with broader public broadcasting missions, and that had secured Bergen to a greater extent. Unfortunately, you have not come as far as you would like, but we join it because we have no more time to lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1062	I'm gonna be okay. I just had to take the floor, as the representative Grande is talking about a deleterious announcement in the same post that he is talking about how important it is that the Stortinget decides. I see the joy of the Stortinget ruling, because I think Arild Grande has felt the opposite in previous government periods, but the agreement that was announced was exactly what was in the order from Stortinget. It was a unanimous staging that was behind that tendering text. To call it nothing, I don't think the debate is worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1067	For those who sit and listen to this debate, this may seem very strange, so I just want to stress again that as a media minister, I am very happy that a unanimous big thing is behind this. What Stortinget said about my predecessor's announcement last year was that the government should come forward with an initiative before Christmas 2016. I did. I am very pleased that the Storting now unanimously supports the big message that was submitted, and I will do my part to ensure that we get ahead of the process. I am pleased with the cooperation with the Storting on media policy, because there are major changes going on, and that is an area that requires us to find good policy solutions. I am very pleased when the Stortinget unanimously supports the proposals that the government is making, so that we get a broad anchor on our media policy, even if we stress that this is a temporary solution. The media diversity committee, which I hear someone is very busy at least not talking, provides us with a very good knowledge base to be able to look at what media policy instruments we need, and introduces a new, modern media policy into a whole. So even if you can be concerned about getting big disagreements out there and in the newspapers, it's important to stress that there's now a matter that the Storting gathers together unanimously about. I'm glad. It will ensure us a commercial generalcaster for years to come, so I'll thank you again for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1074	The representative of Arild Grande has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1080	What Kårstein Eidem Løvaas here says is directly wrong. It is completely contrary to what the Stortinge said, namely that they had cut out everything that has to do with public broadcasting obligations, and ended up with a purely news producer. In fact, there was a requirement for head office in Bergen, but what was the answer to that call was that no one was willing to apply, because there were no obligations, and there was no compensation. That's what makes today's decision, after all, historical, media policy. The staging establishes a compensation scheme for the obligations incurred by a commercial public broadcaster. It is driven by a majority on the Stortinget, and we are very pleased with that. We wish that the process had gone much faster, that the Storting had been involved in more of the discussion about content and how we should ensure the public broadcasting requirements that we are actually concerned with quite cross-political. We haven't had the opportunity to do that, and that's why we have no choice but to join what we now have, and then, after the election, a new Minister of Culture starts to work to create the framework conditions that we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1085	The representative of Kårstein Eidem Løvaas has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1090	That's how history can we race about, we can go into each of our archives and find the quotes. But what was asked from Stortinget was to announce an agreement, a temporary agreement, with daily news broadcasts and head office in Bergen, and that was exactly what was done, so the Stortinget order was followed to the point and point. So it is also interesting, when I now have a few seconds left, to point out that there is a gloat about no one applying for the agreement, and that TV 2 has thus been without an agreement for a while. Well, there is someone who has good seagoing time in leaving TV 2 uninvited, so it is precisely the red-green government that let TV 2 be without agreement for over a year, not because they did not seek, but because the government did not get involved in publishing an agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1097	I was in doubt if I should take the floor, for now I think some of the attempts at storytelling are so far from reality. It is obvious that someone is struggling with the connection of short-term memory and long-term memory here, because it becomes a little strange when it is manufactured like this. Among other things, it's said that this is historic because it's the first time that a commercial public broadcaster gets compensation for being so. No, it's not at all. But before, it was a compensation to get that right, and it was a great value in itself, so it's nothing new that you get compensation for it. Now the compensation has taken a different form. Then I would like to remind you that when the representative of Grande calls for things to be done faster, while he has cried out that this should have been seen together with the result of the work of the Media Diversity Committee, there is a completely logical flaw in that. It would have been nice, when we're going to work on the media policy, that one had gathered about the reality we're in. So it's like, from my beginning as head of this committee three and a half years ago and until today, the orders from the media industry and the reality we're working in have changed completely. What were the obvious enemies then, whom we were supposed to help it against, has now become the partners of several of the actors. This world is changing rapidly. It's a challenging time to lock media policy in – we also need to have that with us when we're working on this. I'm proud that co-funding and government have been able to move media policy forward. These are very challenging times, and we're working to find future solutions. This is one of the things that makes it possible for us to keep going in the meantime, and then we're going to run everything into a future solution once we've processed what came from the Media Diversity Committee. Here it works well, it has to be done in cooperation between big business and government, and not with history falsifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1104	The centre party is not represented in this committee, and when I hear the debate here today, I have to say that I am a little wondering what the situation is like in committee work, but I shall not go any further into it. I think we all have reason to be satisfied that today is actually going to be a unanimous decision. I think the Right Party and the Advance Party will also find out that there are some comments about the insidiousness of this work. It's not the first time, either. It is the case that the opposition parties have called for it several times, and there is no doubt that we think it has been a long time considering that this should be a temporary call, and also taking into account the major changes that are taking place very quickly in the media industry. So I think that the Right, as part of a minority government, should figure out that there might be comments that this has taken time, that things are going slow, and that things have been driven through conciliation in the Storting, because it has in this sector, it's not getting away. Then I might also think that when the Council of State is going to try to take a broad summary, she should refrain from saying that someone in this room is not talking up the media diversity committee's attitude, as she now said. She gave the impression that there are some of us who don't speak up the Media Diversity Committee. There is no one who has spoken from the pulpit here today, on the contrary, but we have expressed an impatience, as I believe the opposition parties have done throughout this period in relation to a government that has been on its heels in several of the questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1113	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1129	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1138	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for good cooperation and for reaching a great deal of agreement on the issues raised by Mr Hansson in this proposal for a representative to take care of endangered populations of wild breeds and sea trout in Hardangerfjorden. As a result of one passing away from the Hardangerfjord regulation in 2013, it was decided that one would build a gene bank to take care of the wildstock in Hardangerfjorden. There is a broad consensus that taking care of the genetic material from wild species is important, but in this case the costs have become so large that unfortunately one could not realise the gene bank within the 2017 budget framework. New cost estimates in 2016 showed that the return bank would cost 66 million. kr, which is a cost increase of more than 50 pst. compared to previous estimates. The need for a re-banking must be balanced against the costs. Several parties call for the reassessment of the measure in the State budget for 2018. This does not mean that collected material in 2015 and 2016 – which is a reason to take care of – is not well cared for. The collected material from the salmon fish stocks in Hardanger is stored at the research station at Ims in Sandnes, Rogaland, a solution approved by the Environment Directorate. It's allocated about 11 million. kr to install a water pipe, as designed in the genetic bank plan, which allows the material to be stored at Ims until further notice. There is also reason to note that according to the Environment Directorate, experience shows that few salmon are authorised as wild fish due to the incorporation of breeding genes. Proposals are also made to establish Hardanger as a pioneer region for a sustainable farming industry where new solutions are being used, both on the technology and on the tools side. The proposal is promoted by a small minority in the Committee. A large majority believe that the proposal falls within the scope of the Ministry of Food and Fisheries and that the proposal is superfluous. In addition, several believe that it is a poor instrument. Let me explain: firstly, the government with the Stortingen joins the Report. Article 6 for the period 2014 to 2015, cf. Inner. 361 S for 2014-2015, several important measures already in place to ensure an environmentally sustainable aquaculture industry. A new capacity adjustment system is in place where the environmental impact of the aquaculture industry is crucial for production capacity. As part of the follow-up to the notification, it lays down rules on production areas for salmon, trout and rainbow trout. The coast is divided into 13 regions and Hardanger forms the major part of production area 3. Therefore, a large majority believe that Hardanger is already an area where the state of the environment will be the determining factor for production capacity. Secondly, it is not appropriate to impose the use of certain technologies or operating methods. Our task is to set requirements for proper operation, and then the industry has to find the best solutions. Thirdly, the creation of a pioneer region may have distorting effects on competition by reducing relative profitability compared to other actors in other regions. It is also worth mentioning that the farming industry is currently paying for the destocking of runaway farmed fish. A system of development permits for the development of new concepts is also in place to help solve environmental or land challenges. I can't help but mention that NTNU has ten-twelve doctoral studies, which are currently mainly carried out on the Trøndelagskysten, with sustainability in the marine industry as a theme. For these reasons, the majority consider that there is no factual basis for changing the framework conditions for the farming industry in Hardangerfjorden and cannot therefore support the proposal by the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1159	With regard to the proposal on sea trout, the Workers' Party may essentially join in the line of argument and the conclusion of the case-rapporteur. What I want to say a few words about is the suggestion of the error axis. The Atlantic wild axis is heavily threatened. Taking care of the Atlantic wild species is one of Norway’s most important contributions to biodiversity conservation. We know today that there are about a third of the world's Atlantic fish that spawn in Norway, and we have great international obligations to take care of it. Today the situation is critical. It's hard to find wild breeds that don't have breeding genes in them. Unfortunately, the situation is developing in a negative direction. The establishment of a genetic bank will allow the preservation and protection of the necessary genetic material. In recent years genetic material has been collected for that purpose. Last year, the Ministry of Climate and Environment decided to close the work with a genetic bank and the Directorate of the Environment was assigned to destroy the collected material. I asked questions about this in the winter Question Time, and then the minister made it clear that the destruction was now at risk, and that they looked at the possibility of taking care of it at Ims in Rogaland, until further notice. It was good and right that the destruction should be stopped, but there is a need for a permanent solution for the wild axis in Hardanger. That is why, in the Workers' Party, we were pleased with the proposal that came from the Greens' Greens' Party, which was to ensure the creation of a gene bank to rebuild and protect the wild axis of Hardanger. After last week's debate, when we heard the State Council Vidar Helgesen argue strongly for the situation of the salmon in the Tana river, there would be reason to believe that there would also be a great deal of involvement in this matter. We therefore think it is a pity that it is only the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Green Party that are behind the proposal to put in place a permanent scheme. We have heard that the main resistance, which we now also heard from the case rapporteur in her contributions, comes in the economic argument. It is clear that this costs money, but we believe that, in line with our international obligations and our obligations to take care of the wilderness, it is the right thing to spend money on. The truth is, there's a majority in the Biggest that thinks it's right. As usual, I would say, Vidar Helgesen meets in minority when he meets in Stortinget, for all parties, with the exception of the Right and Advance Party, writes in his remarks that it may be both right and necessary to establish a rebank in Hardanger. But – as usual – the Left and Christian People's Party chooses to vote in such a way that there is no majority in favour of any proposals, and in that way the government comes to the rescue. But I hope the Minister will remember where the real majority of the Storting lies. The real majority in Stortinget believes that we should put in place a permanent arrangement for the wild axis by creating a gene bank. With these comments, I address the proposal that the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party, the SV and the Green Party, is behind, which unfortunately will hardly be adopted. But from the Labour Party's side, the last words in this case are not said. This is a big commitment in the Workers' Party, which hopefully can be followed up by a new government and a new majority for the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1178	The representative of Åsmund Aukrust has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1183	There is no doubt that much has been done unwisely in the first phase of Norwegian salmon farming history. The escape and salmonitus problems have not yet been resolved, but the so-called traffic light system is a good start to this. That is why we are not in favour of Part 2 of the present proposal for a representative. A large majority of the Grand Duchy supports the implementation of this system, and now we have to let it work. It is also a point that the system of capacity adjustments based on environmental impacts of the breeding industry is combined with the granting of development permits. Together, these measures provide a strong incentive for the development of more environmentally friendly and sustainable technology solutions for fish farming. The cooperation that is now taking place between the companies of Hauge Aqua, which is based in Hjelmås in Hordaland, and Marine Harvest about the closed mermaid system Egg, is one example of that. We support the intention of Part 1 of the proposal. Unfortunately, the establishment of a gene bank to protect and rebuild the wild fish stock in Hardanger has received an unfortunate treatment. It is important to find a long-term solution to take care of the genetic material from the rivers of Hardanger that have been collected. Hardangerfjorden was once one of the most important and beautiful areas of wild Atlantic salmon, and it is a fact that today there is very little original salmon left in the rivers of Hardanger. In this context, it is important to bear in mind that the management issue in the Nature Diversity Act emphasises that it is not only the species itself that is to be cared for, but also the genetic diversity within the species. An important effort has been made to collect genetic material from salmon and sea trout from the rivers of Hardanger. Unfortunately, a gene bank has not yet been prioritised in the State budget. Nor has it been possible for the Christian People's Party and the Left to solve all the challenges in negotiations. To say it carefully, it has been enough to grasp. However, the fact that no funds have been found for the rebank in the government's draft budget or in the budgetary agreement does mean that such rebanking is not necessary and proper. It must therefore be an objective to find budgetary coverage for this in the future state budget. In the meantime, it is essential that the collected genetic material be properly preserved. I take this up with me the proposal of which the Christian People's Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1198	The representative Steinar Reiten has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1203	Like a large majority in the Chamber, we do not support proposal No. 2 in the proposal for a representative we are discussing today, to establish Hardanger as a region for a sustainable farming industry. We believe in itself that there is an issue that is left to another committee to discuss. We also believe that a marine notification that was treated just two years ago suggests that part of the instruments to be used for the Norwegian farming industry in the future, both in terms of the impact of the industry on the environment and in terms of production capacity. As the rapporteur pointed out, when a recently sent out a regulation related to production areas, Hardanger also became part of its own production area, and there the state of the environment will also be an important factor for further production capacity. The new system in place and the new production areas established must be allowed to work. We are not prepared by the Centre Party to make a significant change to that system by means of this Document 8. We therefore do not support proposal No. 2 in the motion for a resolution, but we support proposal No. 1 to establish a gene bank. We also think it was sad that one last autumn was unable to put it in place financially, sail if some of the parties had prioritised it in their alternative budget. The ability to collect genetic material and take care of it had been very important. I think we all really agree on the intention, and the vote also shows quite clearly that the Left and the Christian People's Party recognizes that there was simply no possibility of budgetary coverage or of getting it through the budgetary conciliation that was crucial. This must mean that the government of the Right and the Advance Party does not choose to give economic priority to these kinds of issues – neither in the draft government budget nor through the negotiations that are held in the Stortinge in retrospect. In any case, we are part of the majority of the committee that points out that it is important, and we had in our alternative budget set aside money for the development of such a gene bank – which we still believe is an important instrument, and which, sooner or later, must come into being. One thing is that you can set up temporary arrangements, but here we must sooner or later come back to a permanent system for a rebank for the wild fish stocks in Hardanger in line with the objectives we also have nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1222	Today, too, we need to be able to establish that a majority in this Chamber is not interested in imposing the necessary restrictions on the farming industry in order to be able to take care of the Atlantic wild species for which we have a special responsibility. I think that's stupid. I want to start by addressing the proposals that I and SV have with the Greens/Greens/EFA. What is the problem, and which we are discussing in concrete terms, in Hardanger, is the following: the breeding industry and the growth of the farming industry have destroyed the wild species. Villax populations have steadily fallen, with some possible rises after public intervention, but there is no doubt that farming is a threat to the wild species. We got this properly documented at the latest when we started the work and the red-greens went in order to establish a quality standard for wild salmon. The update and how it was done with the wild axis, we were told last year. When we examined 104 different Norwegian salmon populations, 81 of the 104 salmon populations were too poor. We did not reach the goal we have for how a quality well-managed wild strain should have it. In other words, 81 out of 104 is almost 80 pst. It should make it light up for some people each, and you should say that now we have to impose restrictions on the farming industry that ensure the wild species. Unfortunately, the majority in Stortinget has not agreed to this. We've got this traffic light system, but the traffic light system has a few obvious weaknesses. The greatest obvious weakness is that in those cases where it is not good enough, where it is yellow – not really bad, but it is not good enough – you are allowed to continue as before. In the general interpretation of traffic rules, it is not that, at the moment when you see a yellow light, you just continue as before. It's not the reasonable and logical interpretation. It is possible that someone does – I see someone sitting in the hall laughing at this – but that’s not how you should behave. You have to put a foot in the ground and think like that: here's the danger on the road, here we have to take it easy, here we have to be careful. The natural consequence of yellow light, that the salmon strain is not good enough, should be to introduce measures. That is the problem of government policy. Where you have salmon strains that are good for you, which get green light, you get the opportunity to increase the permitted biomass. It doesn't bring us back to a situation where we get rid of the problem for the wild strain. Here's reason to point out two things about Hardanger. One is that it is in Hordaland and Hardanger we find most of the salmon strains that are the worst. It's also the way Hardanger is one of the areas in the world where it's densely tested with farmed salmon. The Chile coast and the Hardanger farming area are among the two places in the world where salmon is densely tested. This obviously creates problems for the wild. That is why the Swedish Environment Party and the Greens are in favour of Hardanger, because of the vulnerability of the wilderness axis, being a test area for work on new technologies, in other words closed forests, to ensure better control of what goes in, and what goes out, of water and other, instead of, as it is today, the spread of salmon, antibiotics and other means and chemicals in the wild. The second is what today's text, that is to make sure that the emergency response we need is to establish the gene bank. It has become much more expensive, but the farming industry has great profits, and if the government does not find it possible to demand that the farming industry is contributing to remedy the damage it is doing to other salmon industry, I think it is very worrying. Here we have a difficult industry that should contribute more than it does today, to remedy the damage it does to the free nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1235	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1241	A little comment for the last speaker: I think about the majority that is now: if there is something you have put a lot into this period, there are measures for wild salmon, whether it is following the water regulation, means for liming – which is increasing significantly – or to put in place a salmon barrier in the Driva. In the last budgetary procedure, it was also about bringing back the salmon traps in Wefsna, now that the watercourse is free of Gyrodactylus. And we are in the process of establishing wilderness centres – following the pattern of the wild reindeer – several places along the coast. The proposal is that there should be four, and that you start with it in Tana. It is important to put it in place, also in order to improve local administration, not least against the agreement we have with Finland on the management of the Tanavas line. I will admit that in the case of the gene bank in Hardanger, there has been a demanding case also for the Left. There is no doubt that the situation of the wild species in Hardanger is poor, that there are many farms with farmed salmon where the lice problem is high, and that there is also a large interference of farmed salmon in the weak wild breeds. Fortunately, genetic material has been collected for several years to provide a basis for reconstructing the strains. Eventually, we also need effective requirements for the breeding industry that results in fewer lice problems and also the cessation of the escape risk and the escape situation that we have. In the case of the genetic bank itself, – as several have pointed out – costs have increased. It wasn't part of the budget agreement that we made before Christmas. Nevertheless – from the four parties – there was a large increase in the budget with regard to water measures and measures for liming and for wild birds. From the left-hand side, we're happy that we now have an allocation of 11 million. kr, so we can take care of the genetic material that has been collected. You also have the opportunity to look at how the more permanent solution should be. I would like to point out the comment and the proposal that we have from the Christian People's Party and the Left that this is a theme to which the government must come back when a new budget is to be presented for the harvest. We have a situation where we've solved a fundamental problem in the short term. Now we have time to look at the project again to see if it's possible to reduce costs, but so that the genetic material that's there is preserved in the meantime, and that we can put in place a solution that helps to secure the genetic material, so that you'll get viable wild breeds again in Hardanger, as we get a better deal with the problem that's with lice and with escape from the farming industry. I would like to say from the Left that, despite the lack of agreement on the budget, we appreciate the flexibility and the satisfaction that the four parties have had behind it, by using the increased appropriations in the budget agreement and in the budget decision to put in place a temporary arrangement and a water supply at Ims in Rogaland, which means that we are now securing the genetic material, and that we are given the opportunity to find a more permanent solution, to which we must come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1258	In the Greens/Greens/European Greens, we are greatly surprised at the reluctance to renunciation in Hardanger, which is so strong in the current government and is receiving some kind of support from the support parties. We are promoting the proposal on this gene bank because we believe it will be very good for the wild, for nature and tourism, but not least for the farming industry itself. That is why this is a matter of national political dimensions. Hordaland has been and is a pioneer in the development of the farming industry, and the farming industry has both benefited and, it is said, extremely exploited the localities of Hardanger over many years. The result of this is that Hardangerfjorden is one of those places in Norway where the wild axis is most threatened. It's not only ominous for the salmon there, it's also ominous for the reputation of the farming industry, because neither Norwegian politicians nor Norwegian farming industry have any interest in what is one of the arnes for the farming industry, will eventually become a place where salmon suffers too much. It's already hard to find pure genetic material from salmon, without interference with farmed salmon, in Hardanger, and there's no curative point. For the core resource of the Norwegian farming industry itself, the genetic diversity of salmon is. It is the fact that in each river there is genetically unique salmon with different characteristics, and in many rivers there are different salmon strains with different genetic characteristics that provide the basis for developing farmed salmon with the characteristics we need in the farming industry. So getting hurt to weaken the genetic basis is, to put it simply, very stupidly industrially, and it's very damaging to the reputation of the industry. In the Committee's setting up, all the parties in the Chamber agree that the need for a re-banking "must be weighed against the costs", as it is called, but also stops the consensus. The government parties point out that new cost estimates in 2016 show that the repo bank will cost 66 million. kr, and rejects mainly on the basis of the proposals of the Greens/Greens/EFA. Sixty-six million. kr must be looked up against a farming industry which in 2015 traded for 47 billion. kr. It is then relatively special that there should be no possibility of establishing a permanent and scientifically sound way of caring for genetic resources in an area which has taken the greatest burden and has made the greatest contribution to the establishment of this industry. We have a farming industry that is going to follow the polluter-pays principle. We know that lice and escape from farming is the biggest threat to the wild species, and a splinter layer with the breeding industry to establish gene banks in these areas would be a good alternative for the government. The uncertainty about the future of the gene bank combined with the still not very strong regulation we have of the farming industry is a threat to the reputation of Hardangerfjorden as a tourist fjord. Salmon fishing in many of the rivers of Hardanger, together with unique tourism opportunities, has laid the basis for a very important tourist industry in this area. As the salmon stock in the area is weakened, the value of Hardanger is also weakened as a tourist destination, and there are very many people and very many jobs. We therefore believe that Norway should continue to have a farming industry that creates jobs, produces food and generates large incomes, but it needs to be more developed with the natural resources that this industry is based on and users of. For this reason, the Green Party has proposed to address both the acute crisis situation by putting in place a gene bank and addressing the root cause of the problem, namely the current farming industry operating regime in Hardanger, and to turn this fjord, precisely because of the heavy burden, into an area where opportunities are being tested and not just waiting for national effects of measures adopted in the Storting. And then we propose that we also assess which other areas in Norway need re-banking.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1273	Two proposals have been made in the draft representative, and I would like to thank the Committee for its good work on both. One of the governments is to ensure the completion of the work of establishing a gene bank for the wild fish stocks in Hardanger. I point out that the planned re-banking of salmon fish stocks from Hardanger was mentioned in the 2017 budget proposal. The new cost estimates in 2016 showed, as many people have pointed out, that the genetic bank would cost 66 million. kr, a cost increase of more than 50 pst. compared to previous estimates. Because the price had increased so much, the government did not now decide to build the gene bank. When the budget was examined by the Storting, no money was allocated for the purpose either. In 2015 and 2016, material from the fish stocks of Hardanger that could be relevant to a gene bank has been collected and the collected material will be kept at Ims in Rogaland until further notice. In the second proposal in the proposal for a representative, the government asked whether it is possible to establish Hardanger as a pioneer region for a sustainable farming industry. This proposal falls within the responsibility of the Minister for Fisheries. The Minister for Fisheries has explained that the creation of such a pioneer area is really an unnecessary proposal. It is not a suitable instrument, and there are several reasons for it. Firstly, the government, with the support of Stortinget, has already introduced several important instruments to ensure an environmentally sustainable Norwegian salmon farming. In particular, it concerns the new capacity adjustment system where the environmental impact in and out of the aquaculture industry is crucial for production capacity. This also applies to the destocking of listed farmed fish financed by the aquaculture industry and to a scheme for the granting of development permits. These instruments are important for us to give time to work before new instruments are introduced to help solve the same challenges. Another reason why this is not an appropriate instrument is that it is not appropriate to impose the use of certain technologies or operating methods. In addition, the introduction of a pioneer area will provide the farming industry in a demarcated part of the country with a different basic framework than in the rest of the country. Such framework conditions could have a negative socio-economic impact, as well as a disproportionate impact on the enterprises covered. The government wants an environmentally sustainable farming industry and has ambitions to achieve this objective along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1284	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1289	Just a little bit of polemics first: the Council of State says that it is not appropriate to impose technology requirements. I think it's a little special to say by a state council that even commends Norway's electric car policy to be extremely successful in producing electric car technology, that it should be our main threat in reducing oil dependence in the transport sector. But he's about it. Both I and the Green Party believe, on the contrary, that by introducing such a kind of technology requirement, we will achieve exactly what we want, namely to ensure that the problems associated with industry are contained, simply industrialise more and, in addition, look at the possibilities of extracting resources from fertilisers and waste. But I have a question for the Council of State, and that is: Does he agree that today's system, which says that no new measures are necessary, no new reductions in biomass should be imposed if you get yellow light, is not a satisfactory situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1294	Let me first say that our policy and our incentives for zero-emission vehicles are actually technology-neutral in the sense that it's zero-emission that's crucial – whether it's an electric car or a hydrogen car, they have the same framework conditions. But there was a different debate in itself. I believe it is important that the capacity adjustment system, the traffic light system, be able to work for a while before we assess the impact of this. However, the point of that is very important, namely that is the acceptable environmental impact, growth can be offered. If the environmental impact is moderate, the capacity may be frozen. And if the environmental impact is unacceptable, the capacity can be reduced. It is essential that growth does not go at the expense of the quality of the environment and in the next round at the expense of the wild species.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1299	I think it's a little funny, because the point is just that if you set zero emission requirements, it also becomes zero emissions, just like if you make demands for closed down, we don't mean a certain closed technology, we just demand that you have control of what comes in, and what comes out. How to do that, we don't make any demands. So in that sense, such a technology requirement is exactly as technology-neutral as the Council of State seems. I see that he smiles, so he takes the point. I want to follow this up, because a little bit of the problem is that the system of green, yellow and red gives incentives that if you have green, you can put on more biomass until it gets yellow. Then it's freezing. But such a situation does not mean that for more of the salmon populations for which there is yellow light today, it becomes green, but on the contrary that for more of them that are green, it becomes yellow, and it remains yellow. My question is: does the Council of State not see that paradox – he who is responsible for the wilderness axis?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1306	It is an incentive system that gives a clear message to the industry that they will grow, they need to take more stringent and stronger environmental considerations and that growth will only occur if the environmental impact is acceptable. But this is not the only thing that happens. We have the development permits. There's technology development in the industry. And we now see that the Food Authority reports that there are fewer and fewer breeders who have problems complying with the Salmon Code. In 2015, the monitoring programme for escaped farmed salmon showed that there is a decrease in the number of rivers with an excessive element of escaped fish, despite an increase in the number of rivers included in the programme. In the Hardanger region, too, the share of such rivers has fallen. It shows that it is possible to achieve environmental improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1311	I want to go back to the gene bank itself and the temporary solution that we have now found, which is very good, so that the genetic material that is is preserved. But it's a temporary solution, and then my question is, how does the Council of State now work with the project itself on the recycling bank and cost-reduction measures there? Or how does he imagine that the genetic material that is now being preserved can be preserved long enough to actually produce the effect of securing and strengthening the wild stocks of Hardanger in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1316	Since the budgetary agreement, where no funds were allocated to re-banking, we have been working on this temporary solution. It gives us a breathing room that makes us have to consider what's the next step, but no opportunities are lost to find more permanent solutions. In the field of wild game, other very urgent priorities have probably been more important, namely putting the Tana agreement in place. Several batches represented in Stortinget today have expressed their concern about the wild species. That concern was not so obvious last week. I would like to thank the Left for its good interaction. Then we get back to the next step in terms of the Hardanger population.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1321	Governments are well aware of how many times the farming industry has promised to deal with the lice problem, and how many times it has proved to be wrong, based on exactly the same technology that the farming industry is still allowed to use, based on some general argument that technology should not be imposed. What is at least certain, and which I believe the Council of State in the heart agrees with, is that the technology used by the Norwegian farming industry today does not function environmentally or animal welfare. We also agree that the situation in Hardangerfjorden has been particularly poor, especially for a long time, and the question to the Council of State is: Does he agree that permanent measures are needed in Hardangerfjorden to raise the environmental situation there in particular, and can he confirm that he is working to put in place such measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1327	I have been working to find a temporary solution for the restocking. In addition, when we have an ambition to increase production in Norwegian aquaculture, it is important to ensure the world’s climate-friendly food. Then I work closely with the Minister of Fisheries on the new production system. In the new regulation which came in January, Hardanger is the main part of production area 3, and it is therefore an area in which the state of the environment will be the determining factor for production capacity. If the environmental state is where unacceptable, the aquaculture industry will have all the incentives to transform the operation in a more environmentally friendly direction, with the new traffic light system. It is important that it is now allowed to work, and I have every hope that it will work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1332	We all hope that it will work. The problem is that it has not worked, and the question is how much we should continue to hope, and when we are going to move on to measures that can actually have a permanent effect. Then it is important to note that the Council of State itself characterises the solution for the tests from Hardanger as temporary, and the interesting question is, what is the permanent solution? What permanent solution for the Hardanger genetic material does the Council of State consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1337	Let me first say that the traffic light system is new. It is a response that past policies have not worked well enough. Although it is that the control of the salmon problem has become more effective, the growth has more than compensated for it, so that the problem persists. But the traffic light system is new, and I think it is important to give it an opportunity and to ensure that it is effectively respected. Just as I said to the representative Elvesuen, we have now got a temporary solution in place. So we have to consider what will be the best way to get a permanent solution. Last year's situation was that a very large increase in the cost of the gene bank made it impossible for us to find room for it in the budget. Now we've put the pressure on getting a temporary solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1344	I thought I was going to catch a little slip from the Council of State, where he criticized some of us for being less concerned about taking care of the salmon last week. Then we're talking about Tana, where the state council and his government have shown their unique ability to withdraw fishing rights from local Sami and local Finns' Markets, but have Eastern rights to the farming industry by going to introduce variable MTB, which Per Sandberg is going for. I find it fascinating that the government, on the one hand, says that we must not do anything new restrictive, that we must let what exists today work. So other parts of government say no, we have to open up variable MTB, which is actually increasing the total biomass of the mermaids. I have a question for the Council of State: does the Council not agree that the farming industry should follow the polluter-pays principle and bear the entire financial responsibility for getting the wildstock back to an acceptable level?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1351	I am a fan of the polluter-pays principle. I am also a member of a system that gives the industry incentives to increase production when it is environmentally possible. I think it is important – it is important not least for a Norway that is in a green transition – that we should live by the sea in the future as well. We're going to live more of the sea, and we need to increase our production of more climate-friendly food. Then I have great expectations for aquaculture. Then we have to make sure that we set environmental standards. We must ensure that the polluter pays principle is respected, but we must also have incentives to ensure increased production within environmentally sustainable frameworks.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1356	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1363	It is with interest that I listen to the debate that is going on here. For some people in the hall it may sound as if it is the farming industry that is the only threat to the wild game, and I think that is definitely wrong. What's dangerous about getting on that track is that you don't have to look at other measures, which in many cases can be much more important. I would also like to mention that in some areas, with Nausta as a good example, a good salmon seel in Sogn and Fjordane, where cooperation has been established between landowners, power teams, salmon fishermen, the farming industry and the administration through county councils and county councils, there has been a very good cooperation, with a much better management than what is seen in many other salmon rivers, and where we have just managed to increase salmon fishing and maintain stocks in a very good way. Then I believe that as politicians, our task is to facilitate long-term framework conditions for our business. We are the ones who have to make demands – we have to set targets – but the day we go into the trap is to commit ourselves to details within different technologies, I think we have taken on a task that is too big and not very appropriate. As a former marine veterinarian, I will flag it with animal welfare quite high. Some representatives have been in the room and have suggested quite clearly here that the only gratifying thing will be to put the salmon in closed cages. But then I hope you also look at the research reports that clearly show that at least it does not bring animal welfare forward in the right direction. I also believe that the natural conditions that are so important here in the country will be taken away. I have great faith that it is precisely through the development concessions that are now given, including: with the great offshore pain that SalMar is now developing, we will just see in a few years that we can have a sustainable aquaculture industry that is developing and that allows you to get less lice problems, less escape and at the same time good opportunities to increase production. Finally, I would just like to say that in the draft budget, there were no parties that have given enough funds to build up the genetic bank that many have talked very much about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1378	The worst strategy of the breeding industry is the Bukkene Shower strategy, which seeks to shift the blame for the problems of the wild species to other factors, and the worst friends of the breeding industry are politicians who support that strategy. There is no one in this room or anywhere else who underestimates the other factors that have a negative impact on the wild species, but it is an absolutely unmistakable fact that the farming industry has a very negative impact on the wild species, and it should focus on the farming industry and on farming policy. Interestingly, the representative of Aarbergsbotten addresses the phenomenon of ‘animal welfare’ in the salmon industry, because it is a factor that adversely affects animal welfare in the farming industry, the fact that the farming industry operates in a natural environment where there is a natural parasite that necessarily increases astronomically as long as it has access to severe artificial farmed salmon populations all over the coast, which in turn leads to a lice problem on the farmed salmon that needs to be treated in a harder and harder way as the instruments are used up by the law of evolution. The result was that in – I don't remember for sure – in 2015 or 2016 53 million farmed salmon died in the mermaids, an increase of something like 10 pst. from the previous year. It is a huge animal welfare problem, and it is because the farming industry operates in a natural environment with a natural parasite from which they are not physically confined, and there are going to be major problems in solving it as long as the co-existence continues and the co-existence is characterised by what the Food Authority has long ago pointed out, namely that the toolbox to solve the lice problem is more or less empty. Therefore, the requirement for a technology called closed, which means a physical shut-down between parasite and host, is a very reasonable requirement and a requirement that the farming industry itself should see far enough to embrace, and that the farming industry’s friends at Stortinget should help the farming industry across, in the same way that we help Norwegian drivers switch to zero-emission vehicles.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1385	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1401	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of response be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1411	The Arctic is changing strongly as a result of man-made global warming. The ice is melting, the sea is acidifying, and the ecology of the sea is changing. On the one hand, these changes may lead to a reduced basis for the harvesting of resources, while on the other hand reduced ice cover increases the possibility of human activity. This, combined with the importance of natural resources in the Arctic, makes it particularly important to manage these areas in a sustainable way. Norway is responsible for managing the areas under Norwegian jurisdiction. The overall management plans are the foundation for the long-term management of our marine areas. This ensures that marine-based businesses and environmental and ecological care are seen in the context. These plans are being developed and updated on the basis of our overall knowledge of ecology, human activity, vulnerability of areas and resource base. It's with the background of this knowledge that we can evaluate how to delineate human activity, and under what conditions. The Committee is aware that the integrity of this framework is essential for the overall and knowledge-based management. The management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofoten shall be revised in 2020 and, in this context, an assessment of the demarcation of the particularly valuable areas at the ice, polar and marine areas around Svalbard will be part of the professional work carried out. Major sea areas in the Norwegian part of the Arctic are already protected. The size has also decided not to operate petroleum at the edge of the ice. Parts of the fishing industry have merged to refrain from irradiation in previously iced areas around Svalbard until they are properly monitored and measures to prevent ecological degradation of the areas are in place. This is a precautionary measure imposed on the industry itself. The majority of the Committee asks the Government to consider the introduction of a moratorium against irradiation in the areas concerned until a new management plan for the Barents Sea has been examined. In this way, a few equal conditions will exist for all actors, and we will be able to prevent damage to the environment and population. Permanent actions need to be brought about by up-to-date technical assessments in the review of the management plan in 2020. The majority of the human activity in the Arctic is ongoing in areas under the jurisdiction of the coastal States. Through Arctic Councils, they cooperate to contribute to holistic and sustainable management. A common framework for the establishment of marine protection areas has now been established. The selection of marine protected areas is up to the country with jurisdiction. At the Arctic Council of Ministers in May, various measures to protect natural diversity shall be presented. There is also work in progress in the United Nations to develop an agreement on natural diversity outside national jurisdiction. The representative proposal raises important issues. For the Workers' Party, it is of great importance that these be dealt with within the framework of our Management Plan system, so that we can get comprehensive solutions that ensure sustainable management. We believe that the moratorium on bottom radiation imposed on ourselves by parts of the fishing industry is positive, and we see the need for this to be applied to all actors in order to have full impact. However, we have respect for the fact that the introduction of such a moratorium can have implications that we cannot understand from our point of view today. We therefore ask the government to assess the matter and return to Stortinget as soon as possible and in an appropriate manner with its assessment. I would then like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1428	The natural values in the Arctic are worth preserving, not only for us living today, but also for future generations. Norway has a responsibility to manage the parts of the Arctic under its jurisdiction in a sustainable and long-term manner. In this way, we will be able to preserve the important natural values, while at the same time facilitating the creation of values based on well-functioning ecosystems, both today and in the future. A number of proposals are being promoted in this matter and several of them concern protection in the Arctic marine areas. Among other things, provision is made for the identification of more vulnerable sea areas and for Norway to establish marine protection areas in the Arctic, as part of a panarctic network. Large sea areas in the Norwegian part of the Arctic are already protected today. For example, it can be mentioned that the shallow sea areas of the waters around Svalbard already have a good protection and are peaceful against all types of interference. As the rapporteur on this matter said, the overall management plans for the sea areas are the foundation of long-term management. In the management plans, environmental considerations and business opportunities are taken into account. The updating of the management plans takes place after a thorough process in which all interests are heard. The management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofoten will be revised in 2020 and, as part of this work, technical evaluations will be carried out on so-called particularly valuable and vulnerable areas, to which the proposed representative also points. These are areas that have a significant impact on biodiversity and biological production. However, it is important to mention that particularly valuable and vulnerable areas do not have direct effects in the form of restrictions on activity, but rather signal the importance of showing particular care in these areas. In the context of the updating of the management plan, it is to the right that evaluations should be made on how to delineate the particularly valuable and vulnerable areas of the ice edge zone, the polar front and the sea areas. We therefore do not support the proposals that are being promoted in this matter. We need to protect vulnerable nature, and we need to ensure that we do not exploit natural resources in a way that degrades them for future generations. Good knowledge of our seas is important. Therefore, the government and the cooperation parties have prioritised strengthening the work done through the MAREANO programme to monitor the seabed and increase knowledge of the prevalence of natural habitats and species and their impact from human activity. In 2017, MAREANO will monitor the seabed in selected areas around Svalbard. There is also a proposal in this case to ask the government to consider the closure of moratorium against bottom radiation in areas that have been made available for bottom radiation due to smaller ice cover. The right considers that the protection of previously inaccessible areas has already been ensured by the applicable fisheries legislation. It's not free to beam in new areas. On the contrary, access is strictly regulated and conditional. At the same time, the closure and opening of fishing areas is not done through the management plans. We therefore do not support this proposal. The proposal also highlights the importance of international cooperation in the protection of international waters. Arctic countries are working together to compile information on existing marine protected areas in the north and various measures for area-based management that countries can take advantage of. At the same time, work is underway in the United Nations to develop a new agreement on natural diversity outside national jurisdiction. This is an important effort to ensure that natural values are maintained and that the Arctic sea areas that are outside Norway’s jurisdiction are well managed. Norway has a long historical tradition of exploiting our amazing natural resources in a good and sustainable way. This has provided great value creation and contributed to the spread of residence and activity throughout the country. Good management of our marine areas has been very important in this way, and it will also be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1449	After the millennium, there has been an ever-increasing focus on the environmental challenges facing the world when the climate changes as a result of human activity. One of the most daunting things in this picture is the accelerating change in the climate that we now see in the Arctic. As recently as ten years ago, the research communities estimated that the Arctic could be ice-free in the summer of 50-100 years, while researchers at the Norwegian Polar Institute now believe that this could be a reality as early as 2030. The environmental impact on the Arctic areas of such a scenario is enormous. Nevertheless, these challenges do not often characterise the social debate in Norway. The climate is often on the agenda, but not species diversity, wildlife, fish and all the major issues that are in fact partly unanswered because we know little about what is in the iced or partially iced areas. What one does not know, one should be careful to twirl with. What we know, on the other hand, is that no marine areas in the world are going to experience as extreme changes in the next decades as a result of climate change and marine acidification as the Arctic. This is well scientifically documented. That is why we have promoted the proposal for a representative for marine protection areas in the Arctic and the precautionary principle in all activities in wholly or partly iced areas. For natural diversity in the Arctic, reduced seas are particularly critical and lead to loss of important habitats for many species. Ice bear is perhaps the most eye-catching and exotic on the top of the food chain and with great symbolic value. The polar bear is in trouble, but it is also other species, and that otherwise in nature is all connected in a fine interaction. When this is threatened by man-made climate change, we must act on several fronts. Fighting climate change is, of course, one of the actions, or rather, action-oriented, but we need to protect the area and manage it so that, in order to say it publicly, we do not rotate it even more. The Arctic Sea Area plays an important role in regulating the global climate and ensuring marine natural diversity and food security, and forms an important part of the life base of the people and communities in the Arctic. Protection and conservation of the Arctic marine environment and natural diversity must be a high priority, not just for Norway, but for all Arctic coastal states. The Arctic coastal states, among them our own country, have a great responsibility on behalf of the rest of the world to manage these areas properly. We in the Christian People's Party believe that our original proposals in this matter will be able to ensure that the vulnerable sea areas in the Arctic are adequately protected by close cooperation with the other Arctic coastal states. Unfortunately, we have to record that these proposals do not receive a majority. Nevertheless, we are pleased that the bulk of the population sees the importance of protecting vulnerable bottom habitats through a moratorium against bottom radiation in areas that have been made available due to smaller ice cover, until a new roll-out of the Barents Sea management plan has been dealt with by the Stortinget. The majority ask the government to assess such a moratorium and return to Stortinget as soon as possible in an appropriate manner. I am promoting the proposals of which the Christian People's Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1466	The representative Steinar Reiten has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1471	I would like to add a few comments to the vote by the Central Party. A lot has already been said from several speakers about both the natural values of the Arctic and the vulnerability of the region, which, for my part, are not necessary to repeat, but I agree with much of what has been said, not least from the case-rapporteur. It is also true that there are already many areas protected. It may be that there is a basis for more protection, but it is then natural to see in the context of the treatment of a management plan and the management plan system, which provides an overall assessment of all our marine areas, whether it be the Barents Sea, the Norwegian Sea or the North Sea. As the rapporteur pointed out, it is also clear that an oil company does not want to operate at the ice edge, and that the issue is already there. There are also a number of issues that need to be resolved in cooperation with other countries, but there too, the thorough work related to the management plan is a natural way of looking at it. I believe that this proposal has a good intention, but it presupposes a process that is good and thorough, and that it is essential that we turn around and stick to it, that is, the management plan system that we have established for the various marine areas. Therefore, it is also most natural that a person does not take a stand on individual proposals, but looks at them in the context of precisely the management plan that Stortinget is receiving in two to three years. There is one exception, and that is the issue of bottom radiation, where a majority in the Stortinget says that a government wants to assess a moratorium against bottom radiation in the areas concerned. Some of the background to this is that the fishing industry has been concerned with that problem and is trying to avoid bottom radiation before a proper monitoring has been carried out, and before getting a proper overview of its consequences. It is probably correct, as the representative Bru pointed out, that the management plans themselves do not deal with the closure or opening of fishing, but, in the case of precisely this type of fishing, in an area such as the Barents Sea, it is not entirely unnatural that that theme should also be considered in the context of the management plan. It is not just a common opening or closure of the fish in any area. It's about bottom radiation in an area as vulnerable as the Barents Sea is. The centre party has chosen to support that proposal. We also believe that in this case such a moratorium should be submitted to the management plan, because it is a subject that should be addressed in the management plan when the Stortinget receives it in two to three years' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1484	I would first like to thank the rapporteur from the Christian People's Party for presenting this proposal and also for the work done in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. It is a very important majority decision on the basis of which it is based. It's a paradox that in earlier times the Arctic was one of the most untouched and remote strokes in the world, against being now the part of the world that is most affected by human activity, with the global warming that we now see, and with the huge changes that happen faster than I think anyone could ever imagine. That is what we need to change our policies to limit and stop, but also to prepare for the changes that are taking place. I am therefore pleased that we get a majority for a moratorium on bottom radiation in areas that have been made available for bottom radiation due to smaller ice cover. I think it is an important decision to make now, and not wait for the management plan to come to the Stortinget. It is good that parts of the fishing industry have already taken an important decision so that it has been taken care of. The icy edge zone is one of the areas of the world that has the richest biodiversity. In particular, there are the richest areas in the Arctic for which we need to address and limit the risk. I am also pleased that there is a proposal to prioritize the MAREANO programme towards the Arctic. The left does not agree with that proposal, but we are pleased that this is an assessment that should be made in the programme itself. But I appreciate that increase of 10 million. kr we have spent the last two years, they increase their activity in the areas around Svalbard. In addition, we have spent more research resources in the budgets to research more on ice-dependent mammals. So to the proposals to establish larger marine protected areas. I think it's absolutely vital that we start now. I think it is good that proposals are being presented now. It is also good that we start discussing larger areas of protection, so that we have a lively debate towards the management plan, which will be adopted in 2020. It is good to have nature reserves and national parks on Svalbard and out to the territorial border, but if we are to follow our Aichi targets, we need to look at larger protection areas in the marine environment. The left will vote for it. We will also vote for the protection of the ice-cream zone, and not just in the Norwegian part of the Arctic. We have to go for this all over the Arctic, so that the ice-cream zone as a whole is taken care of. Many decisions have been taken here in other Arctic nations as well. In the United States, the previous president, Obama, has decided to limit the oil drilling north of Alaska. In Canada, they have made a similar decision not to have exploration drilling north of Canada in their Arctic regions. There is also a discussion when the European Parliament takes its decision, in which they finally have a majority who demand to say no to oil drilling north of the ice edge zone. These are important decisions themselves, but there are also important decisions to which Norway and the United Kingdom have to deal in the years to come. We also need to take similar decisions, both in order to avoid the previous discussions on activity in the ice edge zone and in order to participate in and create a network of protection areas in the Arctic. On that basis, I would like to inform you that the Left will vote in favour of proposal No. 4, which is just about to end the release of new blocks in Arctic waters, so that we also set a clear limit in the north of where we can have oil activity. I think that is absolutely necessary, and we will vote in favour of that proposal, although we could think of a somewhat more precise text.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1501	It is said that in an academic task on Norwegian influence against American politicians where we from Norway worked as just Christmas to get the attention of the Americans on our northern regions, the conclusion in this scientific task is that the Americans understood that we were very concerned about the northern regions, but it was very unclear to them what we wanted. That's the way it is when we deal with these discussions here as well. It is an enormous attention and a huge debate on the north, but what we want with the north, well, there we crack in every direction. I am clearly among those who say that we should do the same in the Arctic as we have done in Antarctica on the other side of the globe, that is, in these vulnerable areas, we should not engage in activities that could threaten nature. Climate change is driving the ice away. When the ice doesn't have any more places to escape, it'll be gone. What's happening in the north is that the ice is going away. What happens to our ecosystems, nobody knows. But we're going to play it all. And it's a huge gambler. One thing that amazes me, and that perplexs me every time we have these debates, is like the representative Tina Bru from the Right, who says that we operate the oil business and our policies and management of our areas in a sustainable way. No, what we're doing in the oil industry is not close to being sustainable. On the contrary, we're boiling the globe, because we're not doing sustainable resource management of our fossil resources. The second is the way we manage our living organisms, like that. the issue of the seabirds that we dealt with in the context of the nature diversity communication, where we see that we have had a dramatic decline in the number of seabirds, for example: 98 pst. reduction of lomvi. Several other seabirds are also under pressure. So up here, the question is, what do we do now? What we should do is do as the Socialist Left Party and the MDG say, that we shouldn't light up more areas of oil up there. I am pleased that Left and Ola Elvestuen are alerting him and the Left to take the consequences of their own national meeting decisions and to support and support this proposal. I think that's good. The left, along with the Christian People's Party, got into the co-operation agreement with the government that no blocks were to be published in the ice edge area. In this area, the government has outrun the Left and Christian People's Party – without any consequences for the will of the Left and Christian People's Party to cooperate with the Right and the Advance Party. It is worth noting that when the government is clearly choosing to turn its back on its partners, to use a cautious expression, by overstepping the partners, as it is now done in the context of the amendments to the Law on Natural Diversity in order to shoot more wolves, and as was also done in the context of the ice edge, where areas were declared in spite of the fact that they were clearly within the ice edge, this should have consequences. But as long as the Left and Christian People's Party seems to be more important to keep the Party of Advancement in government than to leave the declaration of cooperation in charge of politics, this is the result. SV is involved and supports all the proposals available. On behalf of the Left Party of Socialism and the Green Group in the European Parliament, I would like to raise the question of proposal No. 4, which has not been recorded before. We understand that the government parties will wait for the management plan. It is now, however, that when we see the acute climate crisis that we are up in, the climate turmoil that is there, and when we see that threat with newly opened sea areas, we should act faster also from the government parties. I am very pleased that we have been able to come to a conclusion on the proposal for a decision that is now being adopted today: ‘The Government is asked to consider setting up moratorium against bottom radiation in areas made available for bottom radiation due to smaller ice cover [[...]] Here, the serious part of the fishing industry has taken a responsibility – it's great. But it is important that it is not that they seriously stay out of an area while other more unprofessional actors enter. That's why we've been following this kind of moratorium. I would like to ask the Council of State to consider and come back and give feedback in his statement on what he thinks about the further follow-up of what is being adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1532	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has then taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1537	Thanks to the proposers from the Christian People's Party for raising an important topic. Of course, the Greens are in isolation supporting the establishment of protection areas in the Arctic, and we are also pleased that there will be a majority to consider a temporary moratorium on bottom radiation in ice-free areas. It has been said very nicely about protection areas in the Arctic today, and we agree, of course, with that, but I want to use my post to raise my eyes a little bit, because this case is another example of the broad majority of Norwegian growth continuing to pursue an overall energy, climate and oil policy that is absolutely unrelated. With all due respect for the good intentions of the Christian People's Party: it is somewhat paradoxical about a proposal for a representative that highlights the importance of a precautionary principle in the Arctic policy, while in other contexts voting against the proposals of the Greens and the SV to stop the opening up of new oil fields in the Arctic. Because, although protected areas are important, this measure itself will never be sufficient to protect the Arctic nature. What's happening in the Arctic is that the ice disappears, and the greens, the poppy, the big copper, the walrus, the polar bear, the polar cod, all these animals, depends on one thing: ice. When the ice goes away, the species disappear, and the ecosystems like the Christian People's Party and others are concerned with protecting are also gone. This is what is about to happen, and there is an unbreakable link between the oil policy of Norway and other countries and the policy that is leading to the disappearance of this nature. Also, as it disappears northwards, it moves gradually from shallow areas, where nutrition is good and gives the prerequisites for the rich life of the ice edge, to deep areas just north of Svalbard, where nutrition is poor, and already, before the ice disappears, most of the ecological function of these ice regions will be gone. So engaging in life at the edge of the ice while opening oil fields at a record tempo is a daunting contradiction. Several other Arctic seas have taken action to limit oil drilling in the Arctic. Not long ago, the previous president of the United States, Barack Obama, said that he put his foot down for exploration in Chukchi and Beaufort north of the Arctic, and Canada's Prime Minister Justin Trudeau simultaneously said no to all exploration in his Arctic waters for the next five years. The EU Parliament, as several have mentioned here, has recently examined a resolution with proposals to encourage a total ban on oil drilling in the Arctic. There was only a majority to say no to the north of the ice edge, not least thanks to intensive lobbying by the Norwegian government and Norwegian oil interests. This debate therefore illustrates the fact that oil drilling in the Arctic is becoming very controversial internationally, and that Norway needs to become more aware of how Norway’s immensely pronounced double speech is perceived outside its borders. Finally, there's a question of how economically interesting it is to pushe oil drilling northwards. The Barents Sea is an area where Norway has been struggling to develop profitable projects for a long time. The only two fields in operation there, Snow White and Goliath, have had cost exceedances of 19 billion, respectively. kr and 16 br. NOK and it took 33 and 37 years, respectively, from the announcement until these fields came into operation. Corresponding perspectives may need to be carefully considered when taking international attention to this strange double policy in the north. The conclusion should be that, in the opinion of the Greens, if we are concerned about preserving the Arctic ecosystems, we will be more concerned with what is actually threatening those ecosystems than symbolic measures that will necessarily be very little effective if the basic prerequisites for life in the Arctic ecosystems are broken, thanks, among other things, to them. Norway's aggressive oil policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1555	Norway’s jurisdiction extends all the north to the Arctic Ocean. The special natural values in the Arctic, especially in the ice-cream zone, make us especially responsible for managing the areas in a sustainable and long-term way. We know that climate change is occurring much faster in the Arctic than in other seas, and we know that the natural diversity in the ice zone is totally special and vulnerable. The Government pursues an active policy for the sea and sea-based business. In addition to the forthcoming update of the Norwegian Sea Management Plan, the government has presented this spring a communication on the seas in foreign and development policy and a maritime strategy. In total, these show that the government sees a strong investment in the sea as crucial to securing Norway for the future. One of the most important tools we have for ecosystem-based and sustainable use is the management plans for the Norwegian seas. As the Committee points out in the vote, the overall management plans for the sea areas are the foundation for the long-term management of these areas. They ensure the coherence of marine-based business and environmental protection. The management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofoten shall be revised in 2020. The revision of the management plan will review how the particularly valuable and vulnerable areas of the ice, polar and Bear Islands can be delimited and how the environmental values of the area can be preserved. The revision of the management plan takes place through a clear process based on the thorough professional preparation of the Professional Forum for Norwegian Sea Areas and the Monitoring Group. The monitoring of the seabed through the MAREANO programme provides us with significant increased knowledge of the prevalence of habitat types and species and of how the nature of the seabed is affected by human activity. This mapping will be an important part of the knowledge base of the Professional Forum. In 2017, MAREANO will monitor the seabed in selected areas around Svalbard. The Committee points out that sustainable fishing in the Barents Sea will benefit from increased marine protection from other industrial activities in the area. The relationship between different industrial interests is an important part of the management plans. Through the technical basis for the revision of the Barents and Lofoten management plan, we will have a comprehensive picture of all natural values and all economic activities and impacts on the environment in these areas. A number of measures are already taking into account the specific nature of the ice edge zone. The Polar Code was adopted by the IMO, the United Nations Maritime Organisation, with effect from 1 January of this year. It imposes specific requirements on ships operating in polar and ice waters. Norwegian fisheries management is based on the precautionary principle and scientific advice. We attach great importance to our administration being knowledge-based and based on the best possible scientific basis. Both the national administration and the annual negotiations conducted by Norway with other countries are mainly based on the advice of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea. Under the Marine Resource Act, we are obliged to introduce the regulations necessary to ensure the sustainable taxation of our marine resources. In addition, we have an obligation to protect the marine environment by minimising the impact of fisheries on the marine environment. Our fisheries management has been shown to deliver good results. It is also positive that the fisheries and maritime feed industry is committed to reducing environmental pressures as a result of its own activities in areas where the environmental conditions of the seabed are not yet known. Fisheries in the Barents Sea are well regulated by a well-established scientific regulatory and control regime. A moratorium against bottom trawls is not necessarily the most effective measure for further protection in these areas. Ten years of scientific monitoring show that the vulnerable bottom habitats in these areas are not consistent. The evaluation of a moratorium, if any, must therefore be carried out in depth with regard to possible arrangements, scope and possible consequences. The northern Barents Sea with Svalbard stands out as an area that already has extensive protection. For example, 87 pst is. of the territorial waters around Svalbard protected as nature reserves and national parks. Within the protection zones, fishing by cod trawls shall be prohibited. However, areas outside the territorial waters need protection and there will be a natural theme in the work towards the revision of the management plan in 2020. Finally, I would like to stress that international cooperation is essential for the preservation of the Arctic natural values. Norway is therefore actively involved in the work on marine protection under the Arctic Council and the preparatory consultations under the UN in these days for a new agreement on marine biodiversity outside national jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1580	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1585	After hearing the input from the Council of State and from several of the representatives, I am left with the impression that one avoids answering the challenge of the Christian People's Party in this proposal for a representative. Of course, we agree that it is important to identify these vulnerable sea areas through work on the management plan. But what we are calling for is greater government action on international cooperation to establish a panarctic network of protected areas. The United States and Canada have taken a leading role in this work. They want to protect 10 pst. of the Arctic regions. My question to the Council of State is: how will the Council of State work to respond to that challenge, both from the Christian People's Party and the two largest Arctic coastal states?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1592	We agree that the creation of marine protected areas is one of several possible measures to ensure the natural values of the Arctic Ocean. We believe that effective protection and sustainable use should be achieved – and here it is important that Norway is the country where most people live in the Arctic, so we are concerned that the Arctic is also an area of activity – we must have full involvement of all relevant coastal states. As far as the Arctic Ocean is concerned, it means, in addition to Norway, Denmark and Iceland, Canada, the United States and Russia. So it's not just a matter of choosing the right protection tool, but also choosing the right forum in the case. Therefore, we believe that the work of the Arctic Council is particularly important, and it is progressing towards 2019 under the Arctic Council and the possibility of a mechanism for marine environmental cooperation under the Arctic Council, and we believe that it is the right forum to take this discussion further.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1597	Thank you for your feedback on the question of how he thinks it is important to proceed with the request decision for which there is a majority today. But let me ask the Council of State since he is in parallel with this with a revision of the management plan: how long will he estimate that such an assessment of a moratorium will take? Do we talk in a month, we talk in a year, or do we talk in five years?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1602	I take with me the decision that is being taken today, assuming that the wish behind that decision is that this be done before we finalise the management plan for 2020, but in addition to saying how long this takes, will require a little more review of the professional data we have today, and what may be needed for additional data, before we can make such an assessment. But as I said, it's not necessarily the most effective measure. The bottom habitats are different in these areas and therefore a thorough assessment is required in line with the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1607	I have another question, and that is: does the Council of State believe that Norwegian petroleum policy is ecologically sustainable?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1612	Norway has a petroleum policy and a framework of oil and gas activities, which is absolute in terms of environmental standards, and we also have experience that there are quite limited environmental impacts of Norwegian petroleum activities. As regards the climate effects of Norwegian petroleum activities, there is no doubt that oil and gas contribute to global warming, and it is therefore so important that, in addition to a national CO 2 tax, we participate in the EU quota system for Norwegian oil and gas industries, which means that Norwegian oil and gas industries are involved in achieving the European climate objectives. They do so in 2020, they will do so in 2030 as well, and that means that some of the world's most ambitious climate targets, the Europeans, are the oil and gas industries in Norway on the move.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1622	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1629	Norway has always been surrounded by a rich sea, and we have long traditions to exploit the wealth of the sea giving us. Not only has it shaped our culture, but it has also been the basis for settlement and work along the coast, there has been a background for the construction of Norwegian shipping, and when oil was found in the North Sea around 1970, a whole new era began in this story. For a long time, we thought that the seas and areas could withstand everything. We knew little about the consequences of anthropogenic activity for marine ecology, perhaps especially natural values in the Arctic, and even less about the pollution of the ocean currents. With an Arctic in sharp change due to man-made climate change, sustainable management is particularly important. That is why it was also most necessary when work on the first management plans started for these areas under the Bondevik II Government. It just happened because future generations should be able to reap as well from the wealth of the sea, as we have done, and because the challenges were many, but the reward even greater if you succeed. Not least because the interventions that had taken place until then had occurred relatively isolated. Such a thinking on a long-term and comprehensive policy for the protection of the sea and the coastal environment is a concrete expression of the ability and willingness of Norway as a coastal State to take responsibility for the major maritime areas we manage. I think there is a lot here: the importance of action being long-term and holistic because the goal can only be achieved by assessing all pressures and interventions in the context and in relation to each other. The integrity of this framework is essential for the overall and knowledge-based management. It is absolutely necessary to have a comprehensive understanding of ecosystems and the possible consequences of the three major industries that fishing, shipping and petroleum extraction can have in the vulnerable areas, and not least in order to maintain sustainable co-existence between all operators at sea. We need to look at the different factors affecting the environment in the context and on the basis of experience, knowledge and research, and to consider their impact on the environment and on continued business. Therefore, it is important to revise the management plan, which weighs benefits, disadvantages and the need for coexistence against the potential environmental consequences, environmental risks and need for protection. That is why I believe that this proposal goes beyond the thinking behind systems that we have built up over many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1649	Just a few comments in the end, first to Rasmus Hansson: Of course, the most important thing we do is to preserve the Arctic natural values, to cut greenhouse gas emissions as quickly as possible, both by doing so here and by contributing to it internationally. That's the overwhelmingly largest problem we have. Nevertheless, I do not see any contradiction between that and the proposal on the need to establish Arctic protection areas. The aim is, after all, that we should be able to fulfil and strengthen the obligations of the Paris Agreement, so that we have an Arctic to maintain in the years to come. With international initiatives, Norway should take a driving role in having protection areas in the Arctic and should not wait for initiatives to take place, whether from the United States, Canada or the EU. I got an indication of the role of the Left from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås: Yes, that is not all in this period with which the Left is satisfied in terms of the concession rounds that have been announced. We should have had a different result with regard to the ice edge zone and the extent of the ice edge zone, where there should be no petroleum activity. But I want to say that SV has to take self-criticism that we are there, because I am pleased that we have ensured that the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja are free from petroleum activity. We've expanded the areas that are free of petroleum activity, with Jan Mayen, for which the previous government had opening processes. We have kept away from what are the coastal areas of Finnmark. The left voted against Goliath, who was opened by the previous government, to whom SV was a member. One of the reasons why it is difficult and absolutely necessary to get a proper definition, on a professional basis, of the ice edge zone, are the decisions taken earlier, among others. when you opened the Barents Sea south-east, where there is no constraint. The only constraint is the ice edge observed at any time. That's the decisions we're now struggling with. I also noticed what happened when we had the case about the ice edge for treatment in Stortinget last. So yes, it's a problem that the government voted to move the ice-cream zone northward, but at the Workers' Party and the Centre there was also no willingness to base the professional definition. The assessments were maintained in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1662	To the representative of Elvesuen, I would like to stress that we are voting in favour of this proposal on protected areas because it is totally fine in isolation, but we point out the rather alarming lack of coherence between being very concerned about establishing protected areas in an Arctic that melts away from our noses, and not wanting to vote to limit Norwegian oil activities. This debate illustrates in a very brilliant way the absolute absence of coherence between Norwegian oil policy, Norwegian environmental policy in general and Norwegian North and Arctic policy in particular. We are discussing here our concern that the Arctic ecosystems are literally melting away, especially the extra productive ecosystem that is formed in the ice edge, as a result of the seasonal fluctuations in the Arctic, in the sea and in the atmosphere. But when we discuss in the same room the factor that has the greatest impact on the ecosystems that we are now so concerned about, namely, the question of how much more Norwegian oil to be extracted from the seabed and pumped into the atmosphere, in the discussions on opening new concession rounds, the climate discussion is totally absent. The word ‘climate’, the amount of CO2 and the effects are not at all part of the Storting discussion on whether to pick up more Norwegian fossil resources and pump them into the atmosphere, which is the only thing that happens with those resources, and make them an additional contribution to global warming. I remind you that Norway has contributed in terms of 14, 15 or 16, the figure varies slightly, billions of tonnes of CO2 to the Earth's atmosphere – that's all there is, and it's getting more – over the 50 years we've been doing oil operations. This is why the Greens say no to 23rd and 24th concession rounds and appreciate very much that we get SV with us and to an increasing extent – it looks like – gets us to the left on that idea. That means the Storting is moving. This is also the issue of the case relating to the Constitutional Act § 112, which is now addressed: What is the consequence of the concession rounds? The consequence is at least that only creating protection areas on the edge of the ice unfortunately does not last.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1671	I really didn't intend to take the word any more, but I almost feel that I have to. When I hear some of the words that have been used in this debate, to describe those of us – the majority – who look positively at activity in this area, including petroleum activity under strict environmental requirements, I react. It's said that we're boiling the globe, that we're almost immoral, and that there's some kind of underlying evil in what we're doing. There's no way back, we're heading straight towards the end. I am reacting a little at the level of this debate. This isn't a climate-oil debate, but that's what it's been, so I feel like I have to say something about it. Of course, we can disagree on pace and instruments, but I want to distance myself from the characteristics that I and the majority, which are for an administration that involves activity, are added. When I hear SV describe us or the majority, I'm left with just one thought, and it's: how in every day could SV sit in a government that negotiated the sharing line agreement with Russia, which is the very basis for us having a 23rd and 24th concession round? How will SV ever be able to support a government or be able to sit in a government that has a policy of petroleum activity in the Barents Sea at all? If you're going to listen to what SV says here, and believe them in the concern they're showing, they should have basically just said no to everything, and in principle also said that they're never going to back up a political party that's calling for it. That's the level you put on in this debate, and I don't like that. There is no one in this room who does not agree that climate change is a major challenge that we all take for granted, even if we disagree on the instruments. There's no one here who wants to cook the globe. We're dealing with a framework, we're dealing with being part of the EU's quota system, we're working to make that quota system tighten. We're going the right way. This isn't being immoral. This is to have a policy that makes sense for the future, and that facilitates the sustainable use of our Arctic regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1680	I'm glad I hit a nerve at Tina Bru when I tell her the unpleasant truth. And the unpleasant truth is that all oil and gas activities contribute to the boiling of the globe – caused by climate change – contribute to increasing the temperature of the globe. It does, even though some people here in the hall don't have so much faith in it. In addition, when we extract fossil resources, it is not the actual extraction of the resources – which is what is covered by the EU ETS, on which Vidar Helgesen and Tina Bru were in – that cause most of the climate change. What causes climate change is the use and burning of oil and gas afterwards. It is not covered by the EU quota system when we sell oil on the free world market to get the best possible price. I do not point out that this is evil – I have never said that, I have never used that word. It's just Tina Bru as the denominator. What I'm pointing out is that when you know about and face the enormous challenges that lie there, and you think more about raising money from the ground than about taking care of the climate on the globe, you also have to take the consequences of it. That's the unpleasant truth that I'm drawing out here, and that Rasmus Hansson is pulling out here when he says that the ice around the poles is disappearing, and that it has huge consequences. We know why the ice around the poles disappears. The ice around the poles in the north disappears due to climate change, and climate change is driven by the fact that a number of states and a number of parliamentary assemblies around say: It is more important for us to raise money, and so we would prefer the others to reduce their emissions. It would have been very fascinating to hear how others would have acted if they came from a coal state north of the United States, or they came from Australia and represented that country, and had said that well, in Australia we have the purest coal in the world, so why in the world isn't it Australia's coal to be extracted when the world needs more coal? Similarly, we hear Norwegian politicians saying that we have the purest oil in the world, so we should extract our oil. It is not true that we have the purest oil in the world, nor is it true that there are politicians from the government who want to leave the oil that is not the purest oil in the world in the ground – but that is the way it is now. To the challenges if we shouldn't support anyone: well, we realize that we're in minority. In our policies and in the programme we are conducting political election campaigns towards 2017, we say very clearly that we do not want more search drilling – we do not want more search drilling, we do not want to issue more licenses. It's just for the sake of the climate on the globe. So I think everyone should be happy that our government negotiated a dividing line with Russia, whether you are from the right or from the left in Norwegian politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1697	It's a little polite to listen to moralists' struggle to have the best morals. It goes back and forth. One time it's MDG, it's SV, and then it's Left – and it's the same lesson again and again and again. I have been working for nearly 30 years to give Norway the best possible and maximum possible oil industry. I am proud that I have contributed – both offshore and onshore – to Norway’s income, so that we would be able to take care of the well-being of our nation today. I am also willing to join in facilitating this in the future. Should I go around thinking that my job through a long life in order for Norway to get the best possible well-being is based on immorality? Is that supposed to be understandable? I must also say that I am very grateful that the Council of State drew attention to the importance of Arctic Council. In the Arctic Council, members of the nations bordering the Arctic. It is the nations that make a significant contribution to creating a platform for an Arctic policy. And that's quite typical: when we were at a meeting in Ulan-Ude at Lake Baikal in Russia last year, there was a proposal from the representatives of Sweden to ban all oil exploration, search and seismics – absolutely everything that was – throughout the Arctic. Of course, Norway and Russia voted against it. There are other interests in life to create a future. And when other representatives are talking about the United States and Canada doing this and this: they have completely different climatic conditions in their area than what we have in Norway. In fact, most of the people living in the Arctic live in Norway. Therefore, we want to facilitate measures that enable people to carry out activities in the Arctic, because the climate in Norway is not comparable to what they have in North Canada or Alaska.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1708	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1726	We big-time representatives can discuss a lot and disagree about a lot, but there is one thing we have in common: we have all participated in election campaigns, for most of us very many election campaigns. The arguments and the counter-arguments are our weapons, and the result is determined by the voters. After the election, the political working day can start in confidence that the people have formed the political landscape over the next four years. This cycle has provided a safe framework for democracy and democracy. The contract with the voters has been respected - the contract with the voters and no one else. It has almost been inconceivable that other forces would manipulate the election campaign and election results. In recent months, however, we have received constant and alarming reminders that Russian interests may have intervened in the US presidential elections. On 6 January this year, a downgraded US intelligence report was published. Here it is said that Russia’s president personally ordered cyberattacks to influence elections in the United States – the United States: a superpower, a nuclear power, the world’s largest economy, our main ally and a mature and well-developed democracy. Could this be relevant to Norway? Yes, absolutely, I will claim. There are in particular two reasons for this. Firstly, Norway is a large country, with few people, strategic location, strategic resources and common border with Russia. The realisation of national integrity and territorial sovereignty is demanding. We are dependent on a strong security-policy alliance in force by NATO. Secondly, both the PST threat assessment and the e-service assessment of the relevant safety challenges show that the espionage pressure against Norway is rising sharply. Together with terrorism, this is the most serious threat to Norwegian interests and values today. Russian espionage and attempts to influence decision-making are mentioned in particular in these reports. What we're seeing in the United States now confirms this. Intelligence-driven information operations may aim at undermining inter-country cohesion, affecting election results and weakening national cohesion. Therefore, I believe that what is now revealed in the United States is relevant to Norway. The next question will be whether this is important. Yeah, that's absolutely it. The legitimacy of democracy is based on mutual trust between voters and the elected ones. If this trust is undermined, democracy is confused. There should simply be no room for doubt about the correctness of an election result. That's why we have to do what's possible to ensure that only the voters define the election result, and no one else. The experience from the United States is expensive, important and useful. It allows us both to assess and to implement our own security measures. Norwegian democracy has two inherent qualities that make it robust to foreign influence. We have a fairly broad party flora, which makes information operations more demanding than if, for example, we had a two-party system, and we have a very broad political agreement on the long lines of our security and foreign policy. But this is not enough to vaccinate us against long-term and sustained pressures from foreign countries. naivety has no place in international power policy. That's why my concern in this interpellation is how we can secure against foreign states' manipulation of the forthcoming major elections. Norway is one of the world’s most digitised countries. This has many benefits and positive effects in terms of value creation, information and participation. At the same time, digitisation provides opportunities for manipulation, espionage and crime. Therefore, if a foreign country wants to influence or manipulate the election result, there are many entry ports. In addition, countermeasures are demanding because election campaigns and other democratic processes require transparency, participation and accessibility. Nevertheless, I expect action by the authorities to meet this challenge. Indeed, foreign interference in our decision-making processes is unmistakable and unacceptable. From this point of view, I ask the following questions: How does the Council of State assess the security against foreign countries’ manipulation of the forthcoming collapse elections, and what will the government do to prevent such manipulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1749	Let me first make it quite clear that the government is very concerned about securing the legitimacy of our democratic processes, as well as of this year's major elections. The government dealt with the threats and vulnerability assessments of the EOS services when, together with the underlying agencies and businesses, measures were taken to ensure the implementation of the choice. I would therefore like to repeat the assessments of services first before I respond to what measures the government has taken, and will launch against the elections. The PST and the E service consider it likely that foreign countries will engage in intelligence activities against the decision-making process. According to PST, the intelligence will focus primarily on the parties and their members. The aim is to provide information on processes and candidates in order to be able to predict the outcome of the election and the parties that will be in government. In addition, individuals and their involvement in individual cases of particular interest to other countries will be intelligence targets. Currently, the PST has no information on the existence of plans for digital impact operations from foreign countries that intend to influence the outcome of the election. This must be seen in the light of the substantial consensus on defence and foreign policy issues in Norway. I would like to add here that it is not new that the intelligence services of other countries promote the interests of their own authorities. According to the PST, it will mean taking action to influence the Norwegian debate or weakening the legitimacy of political decision-making processes. These are measures that can also be implemented by intelligence services operating against Norway and Norwegian interests. Digital influence is one of the instruments used in this context, which has been updated following the presidential election in the United States. There are examples of foreign intelligence assisting in raising false news and influencing the use of untruths. It is therefore necessary to make the regular Norwegian news consumer and the debater aware of this phenomenon. Openness about this is, in my view, good prevention. The intelligence service considers that the impact test can be expected in the context of the European Parliamentary elections in 2017. The PST believes that this type of activity can also be targeted at Norwegian interests, e.g.: in the context of the 2017 decision-making process. Therefore, in the light of known recent events, the government has initiated measures and activities aimed at preventing any digital impact operations. In the PST, a project is established to deal with this preventive follow-up related to threats to decision-making. The project shall include, inter alia: establish contact with relevant actors involved in the elections and provide them with an up-to-date threat picture of the threat actors and their methods. Furthermore, advice is given on how to reduce vulnerability and risk through awareness raising and other measures. The PST is in the final phase of the implementation of preventive and conscious orientation for all batch groups at Stortinget, and further contact will be made with the batches represented at Stortinget, centrally and locally. In addition, in its contact with the security leaders of the departments, the PST will focus on threats related to decision making. As an additional measure for the electoral implementation, NSM also contributes with advice and guidance to the Stortinget and to the landfills. NSM will focus on contributions to enhance information security through improved safety culture, digital awareness and behaviour, and possible technical measures. Furthermore, the government has entrusted the PST, NSM and E services with the task of developing an information brochure for candidates at the year’s major elections. The aim is to raise awareness of the possibility of undesirable influence on the choice of size and to improve the ability of candidates to withstand this type of influence. The implementation of elections in Norway is an open and decentralised process. Transparency is central to ensuring confidence in the population. Major parts of the election implementation are carried out in the municipalities. The election directorate was established on 1 January 2016 and has the operational responsibility for the implementation of the roll-out this year. The Directorate, under the auspices of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, is working systematically to prevent various types of undesirable events in the electoral process. In addition to technical security of the electoral administrative system, they facilitate the training and awareness of electoral staff using the system. The Executive Board shall have close follow-up of the PST towards and during the elections. NSM has, among others: carried out tests on the security mechanisms of the electronic electoral system, the PST also has close cooperation with the NSM in the follow-up to specific events and outsourced activities associated with the election. All establishments are themselves responsible for ensuring their own information and should therefore monitor and closely monitor their own vulnerability. It is essential to systematically identify what might be affected, based on methodological thinking about what it means for the business, or for us as a nation, if it is lost. Good management of the safety of the business is a prerequisite for ensuring the correct values with adequate security measures. The government recalls that the national safety authority has advised the introduction of ICT basic security to reduce a wide range of vulnerabilities, the so-called four-plus-six measures. These are still valid. In a world where we are flooded with information through a host of digital channels, the struggle to communicate our own versions of what is happening is constantly being fueled. Large amounts of conflicting information can make it extremely demanding for the audience to come up with facts through credible information, and we may risk undermining the very idea of objective truth. A diversity of free and independent media is a prerequisite for meeting the challenge of influence operations. Editorial media in Norway have a consistently high level of credibility, such as: is related to a well-functioning self-regulation based on presseetic norms and principles that focus on source criticism. Measures against the spread of so-called false news must primarily come from the industry itself, and the theme is on the agenda, among other things. at the Norwegian Editorial Association and the National Association of Media Companies. Uncritical sharing of information and news in social media can make the impact work easier. There may therefore be reason to increase the efforts of authorities to promote awareness, media literacy and source criticism in the population, in the light of developments in the dissemination of false news. The Ministry of Culture, in cooperation with the Media Regulatory Board, assesses the relevant measures here, and in particular in the light of the forthcoming enlargement. In conclusion, I would like to say that the best way to ensure legitimacy for our political processes is not only through specific actions aimed at single events such as the year's major elections, but the continuous work done to build democratic preparedness among individual citizens. This work is done not only primarily by the actors I have mentioned here, but by our school and education system, independent media as well as teams and associations in our civil society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1791	Thank you to the Council of State for a good and complementary answer. My interpretation of the answer is that the government works actively and systematically along three lines. One is raising awareness of the main actors in the forthcoming elections. I notice in particular that the party organisations are mentioned, and I fully agree with that: it is necessary to start the prevention work there. The second track followed by the government is thorough and professional analysis of the situation, ongoing assessment of the threat and risk picture. It leads again to the third track, which is action. I had not expected the Council of State to go into detail and depth on the action page. It may not necessarily be suitable for the public either, but according to what the Council of State says, I read that there is a wide range of work here to ensure both technological systems, procedures and rules to prevent possible information operations. I am also very pleased with what the Council of State says and places great emphasis on meeting the challenge of false news. The digitisation of the news areas is unfortunately increasing the frequency of false news, and here the major editors have a very difficult task, but the more important a societal task is to continue the good and best traditions of Norwegian journalism, which are post-religious knowledge dissemination and dissemination in the face of false news. The interaction between readers, viewers – for that matter – the authorities and the editors is essential in order to build a bulwark against false news, which is undermining trust in society. Finally, I would like to say that I am very pleased with the Council of State's emphasis on the electoral system as such. It is located under another department – the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation – with the newly created Election Directorate. My final question is whether the Council of State can elaborate more on the security of the electoral system, the counting of ballots, the keeping of the electoral book – the building blocks of the election results – how to be safe and secure that the real and correct outcome is reflected.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1800	There are a number of control mechanisms involved in the enumeration process. All votes are counted and reported after both provisional and final counting. All the votes are also counted by both the municipality and the county. The ballots are available physically, on paper, and are kept with the county after the count-up and reporting has been completed. Should there be any doubt as to whether the reported result is correct, the result can be checked against the ballot and re-counted. Both the National Electoral Board and the Preliminary Powers Committee of the Storting check the decision-making process. Furthermore, the Election Directorate has good security and control functions and procedures for the implementation of elections themselves. The infrastructure is monitored so that all changes and actions in the system – which are abbreviated to EVA – are logged. This means that any intrusion attempt, service attack, etc. will be traceable. Abnormal activity and/or if the system is down, the Election Directorate will be notified. NSM has completed an intrusion test. The result of this will be available in a short time. Any weaknesses which could in that case be identified will be rectified. There are manual procedures that can be implemented if the system becomes inaccessible for a shorter or longer period. The government takes the highest seriousness of the challenges and challenges faced by the EOS services. We put in place the measures we think are necessary to follow it up, but I think the most important thing we can do is the job we can do as citizens of a free democracy – to raise awareness of the citizens, to raise awareness of the activities of this challenge. We all have a responsibility, and I think that interpellation debates like this help raise attention, raise problems, and are in themselves important. Because we must raise the issues, discuss them and contribute to raising the awareness of the citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1809	Thanks to the interpellant for an important and good interpellation. I am so lucky that I am sitting in the OSCE and participating in election observation work under the auspices of the OSCE. One of the things that strikes me is how important it is to have free elections – how important it is to people, how important it actually is, even in dictatorships, that they can go and put the ballot in the ballot box, even if they think it might be manipulated. Now we're facing a new era. This is a threat that we must all be aware of as far as election day 11 September is concerned. We have received a clear feedback from the PST and the E service that we must also be aware of this kind of context in the election campaign here in Norway. Then we're dependent on the fact that our agencies in the field have the resources and competences that are going to and that they can discover that something is happening. It is important that interaction in this field works as it should. After hearing the Minister of Justice today, I must say that I am not completely calmed down. There are many fine descriptions of a situation that should be that way, but whether there are actually concrete actions out there and concrete actions being taken, I still have some uncertainty about. At the same time, we know that there is no quick fix in this case. It is obvious that when the Americans were unable to stop the manipulation by foreign powers, it would be demanding for a country like Norway. Therefore, I would like to commend the Council of States for highlighting the importance of international cooperation in the message on social security, which is now being discussed in the Justice Committee. For that message, we will also work together in the future to meet the societal security challenges that will be challenging for Norway to solve alone. In my opinion, this is a good approach. Challenge times require more cooperation. However, I am asking that the topic we are talking about today is to a small extent mentioned in the same message, and that the prevention measures are relatively few and experience little commitment. Nevertheless, I would also like to say that, in our opinion, things are quite late when it comes to general preparedness work. Here I am absolutely sure that the Council of State disagrees with me, but it is a fact that very much is being pushed on – the emergency centre, strengthening the helicopter capacity, object protection, to mention something. And it's not long before the election, so here, measures can't be pushed on. To meet the challenges pointed out by the interpellant, vigilance and critical sense are required, including by us as citizens, and it requires a free and independent press capable of making claims in the public debate. Editors play an important role in helping to clarify what is facts, and what is attempted manipulation, but not least it requires that the agencies already have assumptions to discover whether the sum of what is happening is an attempt at manipulation or at influencing an election result. Because it is not long for the elections to be held on 11 September. I listened to the Minister of Justice's review. There were many measures there that are important and certainly correct and necessary, including: that the agencies must follow up on the need to secure the digital system to ensure the electoral systems. What bothers me a little is: are these special measures aimed at a digital manipulation related to the choice? Digitisation security, the security of digitisation communications and the detection of false news are also work that is general and that is to be done across the board. I'm a little unsure whether it's good enough to be able to target this straight towards what we have on the agenda here. The work going on against the parties, to which the Minister of Justice explained, is good. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Justice: what will the government actually do about the elections in order to ensure that the relevant agencies have the prerequisites to discover whether the sum of what is going on is an attempt to manipulate election results?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1824	It's always fun to talk to a crowded big room. I want to thank Werp and State Council Amundsen – it was a good interplay from Werp and a good response from Amundsen. This is a frightening and serious matter. We see that the world is changing, and the threats are unfortunately becoming more and more cross-border. We have seen in recent years a series of terrorist attacks by Islamist terrorists linked to the Islamic state throughout Europe. The fact that a terrorist state in Syria and Iraq has hit innocent civilians thousands of miles away illustrates some of the new challenges Norway is now facing. At the same time, digital border defence is becoming increasingly important. Society is becoming increasingly dependent on computers and electronics, and it can make us vulnerable in new areas. Everything from power supply to sewers and hospitals is today largely controlled by electronics. More digitisation often leads to significant efficiency gains for society, while at the same time making us vulnerable to cyberattacks. In the case of electronic elections, voting venues and voting rights may also be subject to hacking and influence by foreign countries and other actors with dishonest purposes. In these situations, a good cyber defence will be crucial to ensuring free elections. I am therefore pleased that the Election Directorate takes this issue very seriously, among other things. by testing their own systems in advance of the upcoming collapse option. What characterizes a democratic society is an open and free debate. Recent developments in social media and online news are primarily a good contribution to democratisation. Violations of opinion and debate are a prerequisite for a well-functioning democracy. ‘Fake news’, in the sense that it is news that contains purely factual errors, is important to combat – regardless of whether the news is spread by a foreign power or Norwegian actors. Unfortunately, many, including in Norway, are trying to water down the concept of fake news to include angles on a matter that is not agreed upon. This applies in particular to tabulated themes such as: immigration policy, where Norwegian media are terrified of losing their monopoly on setting the agenda. As long as there are no objective factual errors in a case, you can't call the news "false" just because you disagree with the angle. This also applies to cross-border news. In a democracy, we have to tolerate the fact that people and organisations from other countries point to actual weaknesses and problems within Norway. As long as the debate is based on the facts, it is positive whether the debate is also taking place across borders. We are going to be very careful to put in place a'sensory policy' that determines which debates to take, based on taboo and political correctness and not what are the facts. Of course, the situation is different where the actors try to influence the Norwegian debate based on pure lies and factual errors. This must be combated and rejected, and here we all have a responsibility. However, I must stress that cross-border debate is not a problem in itself, on the contrary, it is only a strength for our democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1839	First, I want to thank the interpellant for addressing an important and current issue. I would also like to thank the Minister of Justice for the answer he has given. Having certainty about choices is something that many people seem to be concerned about both in Norway and in other countries. The background is particularly the events during the presidential election in the United States that the interpellant raised in his question. Several measures have been taken by the Netherlands in the March elections. Among other things, it was decided that the voice recording should be done manually and not digitally, in fear of hacking. In France they are also concerned about the current presidential elections. Recently, more and more attention has been paid to how cyberattacks can be used to influence options or to retrieve information that can be used to directly influence the options. In this context, I would like to emphasise that we politicians, who can be a target for hacking activity, must be aware of the use of technology and ensure that we are as secure as we can. Norway is now world-leading before the use of technology and digital solutions, and there is great trust in this space. We have experienced a technology development that has brought many benefits, but that also shows vulnerabilities that we must be aware of. This is not something that we should go around and fear, but we must be awake. The attack in the digital space is a growing challenge. Many of our important societal functions depend on a digital infrastructure, a well-functioning internet, and not least on electricity. The Central Party believes that Norway will be one of the most secure digitized countries in the world in the future. We must bet on a strong and innovative cyber defence that both prevents and exposes cybercrime. We need more knowledge about the causes of the events, as well as the need for the impact of the concrete actions being taken. Security needs, freedom of expression and privacy — all are important societal values. It may be a demanding exercise to find the balance between these values in the fight against cybercrime, which is a demanding and complex area, but it is also one of the most important responsibilities we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1852	I also thank you very much for the representative Werp raising this matter. Let me first say: this room shows a little lack of interest in this topic, and it bothers me almost the most. Our society is actually in an extreme – and I almost want to say radical – change. It's faster and faster. It's AI, artificial intelligence, it's VR, virtual reality, and we're now in the Storting Hall, the place where the laws for this country are passed, but we're not able to be in the forefront. Every hour changes different parts of this topic. Changes by the state take too long, and it has nothing to do with politics – cross-politically it takes too long. The understanding of the cyber area and the challenges of the representatives is not always good enough. Not rarely do our representatives from Norway log into unsafe, open online solutions abroad in cafes, hotels, etc. Yes, even during an election observation in Ukraine, there were representatives who logged on to open networks. I guess that says everything. Changes in attitude must occur. It's getting better, but it's still definitely not good enough. Still, many of us require to use smartphones and iPads the link to Stortinget on travel in unsafe lands. I remember the last period, when I sat in the Judicial Committee with Mr Werp, and we promoted a unanimous proposal to the Presidency that all new representatives should be trained on data security. It was rejected by the Presidency on the grounds that all representatives have an introduction to ICT. Ergo: One has not understood the problem. I was in St. Petersburg a few days ago with the theme of terror and counter-terrorism. Maybe a little paradoxical, but it was now like that. There was also cybertematics up there. It is important for us to stand straight in the back and point out the challenges in this area. For Norway, as many have said, is at the top of technology. But we are also on top in terms of naivety and public trust. Hacking and the intersection of cyberwar and cyberterrorism – who is behind it? Other states, criminal networks, radical environments – what should we believe in? There may be a grey zone that is not maintained, where it appears that there is something that occurs in Norway but occurs abroad, or vice versa. We're talking about fake news. There's also fake hacking. What's going on? Take, for example: Airspace: If there is an attack in the sky on time, the equivalent will be that one sees that one has an attack on the ground and is taking countermeasures, but there are false news, false hacking, false terror. What about pacemakers and hacking a pacemaker on an important person? Yes, no problem today. Autonomous vehicle – hacking is no problem. Our new F-35 – a flying computer – hacking is no problem. I am perfectly aware that I am now taking the slightly large sentences, and that there is backup, but we are still not good enough. We have to train more cyber warriors, and it sounds radical, but we have to. We need to have better cooperation between private and public businesses. We know that the drone problem is rolling on us, we know that critical infrastructure in energy, finance and other areas gives us a future scenario that we'd rather not think too much about, but we have to. We have hybrid terror, and we have hybrid wars. The digital border defense will come. We are concerned about it, and everyone has to take responsibility. We must prevent fragmentation; we must get a clear position of responsibility. And last, but not least, we have to have prevention in all terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1869	Thank you to those who have spoken in the matter. It is gratifying that there is so much cross-political consensus on both the problem description and the understanding of problems. So, of course, there's a little bit of different input into the debate, that's what it might be. I still want to just comment on a few things. The representative Henriksen addresses the issue of international cooperation. I would like to give my full support to that. The Council of State mentioned the same thing. Strengthening democratic institutions and processes is a common interest for all democracies. There's a lot to learn from each other, and we're going to do that. The same representative, Henriksen, also called for action from the government. Now, I'm sure the Council of State will come up with that, but in that context, I would say that there is some government that has raised the level of awareness of cyber action, it is this government. Through the work of new security laws, hidden coercive measures in the police and the PST, the effort to detect and monitor digital vulnerability and, in particular, digital border defence, it is a very broad approach that highlights the complexity of this, and as the government has done in a way that no other government has been close to taking seriously. Finally, the representative Michaelsen draws a very large picture – so far quite much larger than the interpellation here is about – but I fully agree that this is related. Technology opens up fantastic opportunities and pretty deep pitfalls. What we have to think about, and what we have to take with us when we organize the technology, is that we also have the security mechanisms, that we have the competence, and not least that we have also cooperated here. Nationally, it concerns both the civil and military sectors, the public and private sectors. I thank you for the debate, and once again I thank the Council of State for the answer. We're going to follow this closely, this is important for all of us. This is not a work that has an end stroke – or two lines under a response. It is a sustained, ongoing, long-term and demanding work, it is absolutely certain.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1882	Let me start by thanking Mr. Werp for raising an important issue that deserves attention. I feel that even more representatives today, regardless of their political position, do the same. This is an important topic, and I feel that the debate is moving into the broad, in terms of ICT security and the protection of our digital interests. Intentional and unwanted digital events are an increasing problem. These are threats that may be difficult to identify and that, in the ultimate sense, could pose a threat to Norwegian interests. The approach of the attackers and what they use is about the same vulnerabilities in our ICT systems, regardless of the purpose of the digital attack. It is therefore a key point for me to repeat that all businesses are themselves responsible for ensuring their own information and should therefore identify their own vulnerabilities. It's a fact that many of our important digital values aren't necessarily on the hands of the state. That is why we are dependent on good public and private cooperation if we are to reduce our digital vulnerabilities, whether it is the state on its own behalf – which, to the most extent, I experience in the government having a lot of attention – private businesses or other organisations with important, critical systems. It's about raising our own awareness and competence in the digital impact operations. It is about training the skills we need to ensure ICT security in many of those organisations where this should be a high priority. The government prioritises preparedness high – I do not experience the reality description from the representative Henriksen as particularly striking. We deliver in many areas. Willingness has never been higher than it is today, and we also have a strong focus on digital vulnerabilities, on digital preparedness. That's why I've signaled to the Storting that there's going to be a separate ICT security message that raises some of these issues in the knowledge, because this is not just about – although it's serious enough – the prerequisite for making the big shot this year, but about us as a society, about how to equip ourselves in digital reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1894	The debate on substance is closed. So 8 is going to be equal to-- so 8 is going to be equal to-- 8 is
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1912	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-5, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 6, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, Left and Socialist Left Party proposal No 7, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 8, by Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 9, from Terje Breivik on behalf of the Left There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to propose, as soon as possible, the renewal of the regulation on the rights and the testing of the needs of passenger transport so that the relevant provisions can be applied locally.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1947	There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to take into account that the remuneration for transport services performed in excess of the State’s tariffs for the use of private cars is to be regarded as transport for remuneration and is therefore subject to the obligation of authorisation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1962	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to clearly define the economy of sharing in transport services.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1979	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party, the Left and the Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to initiate reforms to facilitate the sharing economy.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e1996	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess whether current legislation is applicable to businesses that are part of the sharing economy. In doing so, the Government is asked to identify and close any regulatory gaps by proposing any further regulation for the sharing economy, in particular in the fields of consumer protection, taxation and labour market, and in particular in defining employment and the nature of the activities involved, and clarifying responsibility for insurance for both consumers and service providers and for health, environment and safety at work. ‘... [[HMS]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that an information portal is established in which consumers, platforms and providers can obtain information on the rights and obligations of the sharing economy.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to properly assess how the emergence of new forms of employment in the workplace can be better regulated within the framework of the Working Environment Act, including assessing how the Working Environment Act can best regulate the new sharing economic platforms and clarify the concepts of ‘employee’ and ‘employee’ in the Act in order to avoid circumvention of employees’ rights and employer’s obligations.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests appropriate consideration by the government of all aspects of today’s organisation of taxi transport, compliance with the intentions of the licensing system, and how the need for taxi services and standby is met across the country, and at the same time assess the consequences and opportunities of sharing, interconnection and the dissemination services of digital platforms in the field of transport, and the necessary regulation thereof.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government requests appropriate follow-up to the Tax DG’s Report on Share Economy and, inter alia: to propose to the Storting the reporting and tax treatment requirements of the person providing rental or paid services over digital platforms and of small revenues from services which include services not otherwise subject to taxation; provide for increased tax revenue from international companies operating in Norway in cooperation with other countries and reduce the possibilities of artificial change of income through the follow-up to the tax settlement which requires the prompt implementation of the OECD BEPS recommendations and measures for increased financial transparency; and follow up the financial transparency and tax avoidance agreeing points of the tax settlement.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e2063	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Terje Breivik on behalf of Left the proposals No 4-9, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e2078	First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to determine how to obtain as much as possible access to financial services such as payment services, bank accounts, the ability to carry out consumer balancing and credit cards.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e2093	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to investigate the possibility of prohibiting the sale of past claims where the consumer is a debtor.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e2110	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to assess the constraints of the interest-reduction scheme, initially linked to the deduction of interest on credit card debt, and to make any proposals for a change in the submission of the government budget for 2018.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e2127	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-7, from the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to remove the possibility of limiting the use of external cash collectors in the event of the collection of unsecured liabilities.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision asks the government to remove the possibility of the creditor having to cover legal fees in the event of the recovery of unsecured debt, the effects of halving the legal fee in the event of outlays and forced sales, and the possibility of limiting the possibility of charging the previous legal fee in the event of new outlays’.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that municipal debt advice and voluntary schemes have sufficient capacity to provide advice to those in need of assistance within a reasonable period of time and that they have sufficient competence to assist people who have debt problems in dealing with professional creditors.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with a report on the coverage of debt advisors, the waiting time for an hour with a debt advisor and the competence of the debt advisors.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e2161	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate the system of a national debt register and to return to the Stortingen on a case to this effect no later than 2 years after the register has been established.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to investigate the possibility of imposing a ceiling on interest rates and to return to the Storting with a case on this matter.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e2196	Here the Socialist Left Party has announced that they will vote against it. [[(from the hall):]] We will vote subsidiaryly for you after proposal No. 2 times.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e2205	This means that the setting will be unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e2253	During the debate, Hans Olav Syversen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to develop as soon as possible an overall system for measuring gross national quality of life, consisting of a set of quality of life indicators, as a complement to gross domestic product.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e2303	During the debate, Hanne Thürmer put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the life-vision programme is specified as part of the obligation to disseminate to a commercial broadcaster receiving public support, provided that the cost framework does not exceed the level of State aid established by ESA. The life-vision programme is a crucial part of the cultural diversity of the media and, in the same way as the life-view programme is part of the NRK portfolio, it should therefore be ensured by means of a designation in an agreement with a commercial broadcaster.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e2334	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 2, from Steinar Reiten on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left the proposals No 3 and 4, by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 3 and 4 by the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking whether it is possible to establish Hardanger as a pioneer region for a sustainable farming industry where new solutions are being implemented, both on the technology and the tools side. The aim will be for Hardanger to become a priority area showing how it is possible to combine sustainable breeding activities with Norway’s international obligations to protect the unique coastal salmon and sea trout strains.’» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to go through the need to set up new gene banks for endangered wild-tail populations in Norway to ensure that no wild-tail populations are lost.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e2368	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that the work of establishing a living gene bank to protect and rebuild the wild fish stocks in Hardanger in line with national targets and with Norway’s international obligations is completed, including the provision of guarantees for its financing.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e2383	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to re-examine the matter in the draft state budget for 2018 and to seek cover for the necessary costs of establishment there.’ The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e2408	As there are several in the Chamber who have voted incorrectly, the President proposes that we take this vote again and ask the representatives to follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e2437	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Steinar Reiten on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Green Party proposal No 3, from Steinar Reiten on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party proposal No 4, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 4, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to close the announcement of new exploration blocks in the Arctic waters of Norway.’» The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e2466	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the use of MAREANO to identify the Norwegian sea areas in the Arctic, with a view to identifying protected sea areas that may be protected in the update of the Barents Sea-Loft Management Plan.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e2481	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a plan for Norway to establish large marine protected areas in the Arctic as part of a pan-archical network of protected areas.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the work of the Arctic Marine Protection Network to ensure that the Arctic Ocean is given international protection against all industrial activities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e2513	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e2525	As more people in the hall say they did not get the vote, we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e2549	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-04-04.ana.ud445e2563	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? That hasn't happened. - The meeting's been cancelled.
