ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e123	Four permit applications are available: by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave for the representative of Mr Inbjørg Amanda Vogskesen from 16 June onwards and until further notice on the leave of the representative Ulf Leirstein on 19 and 20 June to attend the Parliamentary Intelligence Security Forum in Latvia from the Central Party Group on sick leave for the representative Jenny Klinge from 19 June to 21 June by the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representative Eirik Sivertsen on 20 and 21 June to take part in the Arctic Circle Forum in Washington DC On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For East Agder County: Lene Langemyr For More and Romesdal County: Geir Inge Line For Northern Ireland: Tone-Helen Toften For Eastfold County: Håvard Jensen
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e183	Lene Langemyr is present and will take the seat. The representative, Line Henriette Hemdal, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e190	On behalf of Rigmor Andersen Eide, Olaug V. Bollestad and I signed a proposal for a representative to reintroduce the ban on 19 reptile species in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e195	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 1 to 3 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e241	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to each party group and 10 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to five lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e252	The size is today to deal with the agricultural settlement for 2017, which came to Stortinget after the agricultural organisations broke the negotiations on 16 May 2017. Together with this case, we will also consider document 8:135 S, the Rasmus Hansson representative proposal, on labelling schemes for foodstuffs on animal welfare, forage and antibiotic use, and document 8:138 S, a proposal for a representative for a ban on cage hens and a ban on the labelling of eggs from cage hens until the ban has been implemented. I would like to thank the Committee, and in particular the Committee Secretary, who has contributed to the fact that the matter of agricultural settlement went through the Committee without being very much delayed in relation to the deadline set for discharge. The reason for the postponement was, as is known, the negotiation of the opposition at the level of detail in the agreement, which did not lead to it. The Right Party and the Progressive Party are pleased that the Left chose to send the settlement back to the parties for further negotiations. The main proposal in this case was to adopt the first offer by the State to avoid undermining the contract institute. If the Storting continues to add to the government's offer, which has been thoroughly reworked, this will greatly affect the reliability and survival of the negotiating institute. On the other hand, by dealing with the settlement at the level of detail in the Storting, there may be significant unintended effects due to the fact that the consequences of changes to the device are not sufficiently well established. The matter is, in my opinion, not suitable for treatment in Stortinget. As you know, the Right Party and the Advance Party will vote subsidiaryly for the Left's proposal to send the settlement back to the parties, and we are pleased that the Government has announced that he will make an offer that is in line with the Left's proposal. Agriculture required an average net increase in income of NOK 31700 per year. The requirement had a frame of 1,450 billion. kr. The government's negotiating committee was based on Stortingen's handling of the agricultural notification. The offer had a frame of 410 million. kr. After an income increase of more than 18 pst. in the period 2014-2017, the framework for a revenue growth from 2017 before settlement in 2018 was set at 2,25 p.m. The government continued to focus on the Stortning assumptions for the income target and indicated that improved market balance could result in an additional income growth of 2,2 pst. The State also pointed out that, in its claim, agriculture interpreted the income target of the Storting as a tier target and indicated that such a target would require a new base material and a discussion of the relevant benchmark. In setting up the farm notification, the Committee believes that farmers, as self-employed workers, should have the same income development as others in society. The objective of income shall be to reduce the distance to other groups. The Committee also agrees that good market adaptation and product development, for which the farmers themselves are responsible, are a prerequisite for the formation of income. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left also agree on a note in the agricultural message that says that one acknowledges that it is difficult to measure income for self-employed people and compare it with employees. The majority indicated that the total calculation drawn up by the Agricultural Budget Item is only suitable for describing income trends and to a lesser extent for measuring income levels. The opposition in this case, all the parties outside the Right Party and the Advance Party, also writes in their comments that the objective of the increase in the framework is to ensure chronically equal development between agriculture and other groups, as the income target says, while writing that an improvement in the market balance will be important in achieving the income target. They also believe that the economic situation in the country should be the basis of budgetary decisions at all times. Then my question is, how is this to be interpreted? If these parties believe what they write in this note, that the income target is chronically equal to development, why did they not vote in favour of the SV's proposal for this precisely in the Agriculture Communication, and why is there no proposal on this matter? In the case of incomes from agriculture, it is worth noting the statistics of the SSB, which operates with an average wage for agriculture of about NOK 650 000. The statistics also show that there is only 12 pst. by the farmers who derive the main weight of their income from agriculture. The statistics clearly show that most people have income from other jobs and that there are several possibilities for exploiting the resource base available for a self-employed person. Agricultural income trends have been significantly stronger in the last three years than in other groups. The income growth of agriculture is estimated at 18.1 p.m., while for other groups it is at 7.1 p.m. This indicates that Norwegian agriculture is doing well. Production has never been higher. There is a great demand for investment funds, especially among the young, and the decline in land was fortunately out, although we see that the farmers themselves contribute to the degradation of large areas. The number of farms to be closed is also lower than that of the Centre Party, SV and the Board of Directors of the Workers Party in the years 2005–2013. The State negotiating committee also stressed the need to strengthen the basis for the geographical distribution of production. It was proposed to increase the incentive to use the land resources, to increase the production of cereals on suitable land, to strengthen regional and structural subsidies in favour of small and medium-sized uses in grass-based livestock farming in general and in the West in particular, to strengthen the production of fruit and vegetables and to reduce the incentive for grass-based livestock farming in cereal areas. The Right Party and the Progressive Party believe that the State has provided the farmers with good opportunities for income, that both the income target and the production target are met, and that the instruments stimulate the achievement of the objectives agreed in the Agriculture Communication by the majority of the Committee. I bring this to the attention of the Right and the Advance Party's proposals in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e284	The representative of Ingunn Foss has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e291	To me, it is unclear what a decision is, as it does not come from the decision itself. One notes that a party is asking for rapid progress. As far as the framework is concerned, it is understandable that the State will open negotiations with offering 625 million. Do you really want to delete this item? The second question is, what happens if there is a breach? Is it the country's original offer of 410 million? NOK 625 million. kr applicable? It says that one should strengthen the basis for grazing on the inland land. Is it in relation to the leadership of the State in its offer, or does the majority of the notification take into account the need to strengthen the outback but not at the expense of the inward leg?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e302	As in the case, the primary position of the Right and Advance Party is to send the settlement back to the parties. Fortunately, we've got the Left with us on that. The Minister of Agriculture has said that he bases the Left's proposal for an agreement. Then there are real negotiations, no one can pre-empt what's going on in the negotiations. We have the starting point in the matter, and it must be up to the Minister of Agriculture to conduct negotiations with the parties. Details of the questions and arrangements in the framework must be asked to the Minister for Agriculture. That is precisely why the matter is so unsuitable to be dealt with in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e307	I then record that there is a large room for action here for the Minister to identify the leaders in the agricultural settlement. But I asked concretely, and the representative of the Right, who is an agrarian spokesperson, must know – who is involved in the proposal: if it is broken, it is 410 million. kr which is the country's starting point, or is 625 million. kr that would be applicable? Whatever the outcome of the case, will the matter come back to Stortinget, which is the ordinary way of dealing with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e314	As I replied in my first answer, the agreement is from the left to the right. The Minister of Agriculture has been very clear that he is using it. What is going to happen in the negotiations, I cannot foreshadow, and I suggest that that question be addressed to the Minister of Agriculture, who will certainly address it in his answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e319	My question is on the rules of the game. The representative says that the Stortinget is entering the farm settlement is undermining the negotiating institute for the future. It is entirely in line with what the Prime Minister said in the class struggle on 1 June 2017. She said, ‘It has been a bit of the justice of this negotiating system that the farmers have known that they cannot get any more from the Storting on the negotiations between the parties does not produce a result.’ This is too late, this is incorrect information. I have here the Main Agreement for Agriculture, NOU 1988:10. It says on page 20 – Eivind Smith was a consultant – that the agricultural negotiations are considered a preparation for Stortinget’s treatment. The size is, of course, free to believe what they want about farming, as in any other matter that comes to the Stortinget. Why does the government want to undermine this understanding and this fact?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e333	We don't want to undermine that understanding, we're completely in agreement with that. Of course, the farmers have the opportunity to go to breaking. But it's like that it's the only business organization that has a right to negotiate with the state of a separate institute before anyone gets anything on next year's budget. We think it's worth taking care of, we've actually adopted it in our program, and we want to maintain the contract system, but then the parties in the settlement have to do the job. As I said earlier, it is far too detailed for us to keep up with that in Stortinget, with the consequences it has for the agricultural mechanism.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e338	Today, the Storting will adopt the agricultural settlement – that is, we will not adopt it, we will adopt some leads for further negotiations in the agricultural settlement. There is no plurality for any leadership in the further negotiations in the agricultural settings. There are no comments that have multiples behind them. The closest one comes in a plural, is what the Labour Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and SV are behind. Otherwise, there is a government party, which does not have multiples for its comments, and the Left, which does not have multiples for its comments. The frame in this matter today is completely unclear – no one will know what it is and what it will be. The question then is, what will be the lead after this debate? Would that be the comments of the opposition? Would that be the comments of the government party? Or will it be the comments on the Left which are what will lead the further negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e348	As I have explained earlier, the main view of the Right and the Advance Party is that the case is adopted with the framework in place. What is happening now is that the matter is being sent back to the parties, which I have argued for in the past, and the Minister of Agriculture has clearly indicated that he will take into account the proposal from the Left who is in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e355	If the goal is to give a clear signal, I'll say that the Right has not been closed. For now it has been said that the main position of the Right and Advance Party was to send it back. I believed the Right and the primary position of the Progress Party was 410 million. kr. But I would ask the representative Foss to confirm only what was said in the post, namely that the starting point for the offer is the left hand note – the starting point for the offer is the left hand note! Ergo is 625 million. kr. This means that the input frame has been given, which is 625 million. kr, and the one to be negotiated is the device of them. I ask the representative Foss to confirm or cancel it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e362	We can certainly discuss this matter, who is clear and who is not clear. It is possible that I made a mistake about what was the main proposal of the Right Party and the Advance Party in the matter. Sending it back was our primary suggestion. Secondly, we will vote in favour of the proposal from the Left, and again, as I have said, the Minister for Agriculture has clearly indicated that he will base the agreement from the Left on the negotiations to take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e367	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e372	First, the two matters for which I am the case spokesman. When it applies to Inst. 372 S, about brand schemes, let me just add it up like this: I think what we need are better brand schemes, not more brand schemes. There is a large majority in the committee that would like this matter to be dealt with by the Minutes. The second is the proposal to introduce a ban on cage hens and to introduce a labelling scheme. There is the fact that, with the exception of SV and Left, a majority of the committee believes that there is no professional basis for introducing such a ban or labelling scheme and therefore does not support the proposal. So until the proceedings on this year's agricultural business – perhaps one of the most important issues that the Storting is considering this spring. This is not primarily about the income of the farmer, it is not about the farmer, it is about why we have an agricultural policy, and why an up-to-date and active Norwegian agriculture is important for Norway. It's about preparedness. It's about using the resources we have in our country to produce the most possible food. It's important in a normal situation. It will be extremely important in a crisis situation. So that agriculture is a central part of our collective preparedness in line with defence, there is no doubt about it. Agriculture policy is important for the creation of value in Norway. Agriculture is the basis of Norway's largest mainland industry, employing very many people, contributing to great value creation. And if what we need is jobs and value creation. Agriculture is quite independent of economic trends in society and little influenced by oil prices, so agriculture is an important industry for Norway. Agriculture is also important for securing the cultural landscapes, this country that makes tourists want to come here, which makes our country look well-kept. It is also a very close link between agricultural policy and rural policy. It has tried to disconnect both the Right and the Progress Party – says that the two things have nothing to do with each other. It sets up the government platform. The Stortinget, during the processing of the agricultural notification, has clearly re-joined. It is not possible to assess agricultural policy and agricultural policy as two different things. So we're at the point of today's business, easy income. Why is income important for these measures? That is what the Industry Committee says very precisely in its attitude to the agricultural notification. One says that income is both an objective in itself and the main instrument for achieving the other agricultural policy objectives. Therefore, it was so good that a joint committee said that the income target for agriculture should be to reduce the income gap between agriculture and other groups. Unfortunately, it has been shown that the Left, Right and Advance parties did not mean what they said. For now, they say that there is a percentage equal to income development, and there are increases in income differences that will help to reduce the gap. If we now apply the left-hand proposal of 625 million. NOK, it will increase the income difference by NOK 3700. Then my question is, how many times do you have to increase the income difference by NOK 3700 before you take the income gap again? It's a pretty special thing that you've constructed up inside your heads. I heard State Council Vidar Helgesen today on the radio. He talked about the gap between our emissions today, which is high, and the paint for where we should – we lie over, and he would reduce this gap. If one had taken into account the logic used by these parties in agricultural policy, one would have done so by increasing emissions. Then one would kind of reduce the gap. This is jumping from their rises. It's unfortunate. Then I'm very happy that the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and SV managed to sit down around the table and become a few about an offensive device for the agricultural settlement. We could be ready to end the data today. We had a level of detail that was around there as one was in 2014, so there's no need to criticize it. When we saw that we didn't get multiple numbers, we went down to the level of detail, on what we put in the settings, out of respect for the negotiations that were going to happen. But there would be nothing in the way of ending the agricultural policy – a 79 million-dollar framework. kr, it would be a good starting point to bet on the small and medium-sized uses and have a clear district profile on the item. Unfortunately, the Left was sitting around this negotiating table. I've now had the experience of negotiating with the Left. I won't say much about it, but let me say two things. It's very demanding with a party that doesn't know what they want, and they don't trust them either. That's my experience with the Left Party. I think it's a shame that they've gone from their promises here. A $790 million offer and a $790 million specification. This does not mean that the revenue gap will be reduced, as we say: additional measures in a moderating line must be better market balance and other measures managed by agriculture itself. And of course, that's what was at stake when we discussed the agricultural message. But this spring has shown that the choice will be decisive for what will be the income target for agriculture. The choice will be decisive as to whether we will have a stake in rural agriculture. This option is used to decide whether we will have a raise for all types of use. Because there's a logic that I don't agree with – in the Left, Right and the Advance Party's thoughts – that if you just make it infinitely worse for the farmers in one part of the country to be farmers, it's better to be farmers in another part. If you take from a farmer in Eastfold who has invested in a dairy, maybe NOK 100,000 per night, it will suddenly be better to be a farmer in Sogn and Fjordane. I don't believe that. I think what matters is whether it's good to be a farmer in More and Romesdal, in Hordaland, in Sogn and Fjordane, it's the income possibilities that one gets in his area. So these four parts have added up to a very clear district profile, and at the same time we've done something about the structure, one has simply raised the income at the bottom of all uses. So a short comment on the decisions that are from the largest fraction in the committee. When I'm involved, I understand that there's no wish for it to be taken up for voting, that with the target price of pigs, that gets the parties to handle it. I want to strongly urge the Council of States not to implement it now. It has no positive effects. And if one implements it, it's just because one wants to damage Norwegian agriculture. So it doesn't want to be a reality voter. In II, to assess the operational difficulty, it says ‘Agricultural settlement for 2018’. There's a mistake. It shall be ‘Agriculturally prepared 2018’. The agricultural settlement 2018 will be next spring. So that's very clear. And then I want to link some comments to statements that have been floating through the air. You have someone who has used money twice. First, we've got 79 million. kr, which was saved from 2016 and not used, and then one has added again: Now they will be allowed to distribute these money. Ergo makes us work twice. The left has swung to the big heights. One day they have claimed that the increase in target prices will harm Norwegian consumers because they will receive $10 more food per year. On the other hand, they have claimed that these prices are completely impossible to take into the market. There are some times I would like the party to at least be able to decide. This could be an exciting spring for Norwegian agriculture, but I think that the big change needs a change in choice for us to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e410	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e415	The representative Lundteg was a bit behind the rules, and to this extent the representative Pollestad was inside. But I understand that it has been a habit for a long time that a person accepts the original offer of the state when the parties to the agreement do not become any. And so it was when the Center Party was part of a plurality, both here in the Stortinget and in the Government. My question is this: Hasn't the centre party by joining in and proposing to double the frames actually told the farmers that it is only to break future negotiations and come to the Storting, because here's more to get. Don't the contract institute in any way risk giving such a signal as one here now does, while one, when one was responsible in position, didn't it do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e422	It's a touching concern for the negotiating institute from a party that has programmed that they want to wind up the entire negotiating institute, and have done everything they can to weaken it, and now all of a sudden it's very busy. In 1983 changes were made in the Storting. 1987 was also a special year. In 2014 it was necessary to make changes, and in 2017 we believe that it is necessary to make changes. It is also configured that you want to make changes by adjusting the border. I think the negotiating institute has two tasks. Negotiating is to be paid for by the farmers, but the negotiating institute shall not be a hub for a fluent government that wishes to implement a policy that does not have multiples in Stortinget. What happened both in 2014 and now in 2017, is that the Storting does its job of checking that the government is working within it. So the only extraordinary thing here is that we have an agricultural minister from the Progress Party, and I agree that we should end up with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e431	No, I don't think we're going to stop having an agricultural minister from the Progress Party. I think it will be good for Norwegian agriculture in the future, as it has been in the last four years. Agriculture is responsible for overproduction and the loss of prices that may result from overproduction. And it's the farmers and agriculture who see best what it's possible to get into the market in such a situation. As I see from the present proposal, the opposition is financing part of the framework by increasing the target price more than the farmers demanded. I think it's outright irresponsible. Isn't that what the representative Pollestad thinks?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e440	No, he doesn't. It is true that agriculture is responsible for overproduction and for achieving the target prices set. At the same time, agriculture is now coming into the situation that the means they have had to achieve the target price are affecting the government and the left. We get an Article 19 that will increase the flow of foreign food on the Norwegian market, an attack target price for pigs, which will make it harder to achieve the target price, one has learned that one will end up with farmers wanting to have a common marketing of food through the information offices. So, in areas by region, one of the potentials of agriculture is weakening to drive market regulation. And then it's hard to take out the prizes. The goal increase is marginal, that's $10 per Norwegian. It's not what agricultural policy stands and falls on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e445	So the representative Pollestad doesn't think it's irresponsible that you put up spending more on the target than what agriculture itself thinks they can get out. This indicates that the opposition either uses air money or creates a problem for agriculture in balancing the market. Then I want an answer to the question: are you looking to create problems for agriculture, or are you just using air money?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e451	No, this is definitely not air money. Then you can have long discussions about the extent to which it is possible to take 2 cents more per litre of milk or not. I'd like to discuss that. The point is, in our arrangement, we're increasing the budget by 485 million. kr. We're funding a frame of it. What has also been important to the Center Party is that we stick to the funding of the ordinary frame and that one does not use cheating money. Then it's budget money, and there we have 485 million. kr. We've got $45 million. kr more on the target price. The government has proposed plus 150, and then we've added 45 million. On top of that. Then there's a transfer of funds that we're funding the framework with, and then there's an effect of the tax deduction. It has been very important for us that we have taken most of the growth in the budget because it is limited the possibility of taking price, but neither have we introduced magic elements in the funding of the framework – and we have not.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e460	I agree with Mr Pollestad that agriculture is an important matter, very important. But I am a little stunned when I have been with the representative Pollestad and the Central Party for these four years. As a former local farmer team leader, I have to say that I have fenced quite strongly around the negotiating institute, and I am surprised at the way this is handled. Why is it not that the negotiating institute is now really at risk with the race that Pollestad's representative is running? Now I give the representative an opportunity to respond to what is the Central Party's policy, because in his posts he spent at least five minutes on Left's policy. It might be interesting to hear what the representative thinks is needed to preserve the negotiating institute for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e465	I record that the representative André N. Skkelstad now made an attempt to become a spokesperson for the Norwegian League of Bonds. I think he was only closed this way in part. The negotiation institute is strictly taken as strongly as a majority in Stortinget wants to make it. But it is an important part of the negotiating institute that it should not relieve the Stortingen of responsibility – the responsibility of Stortinget to ensure that the agricultural policy pursued by the government is in line with the leadership given by the Stortingen. Now we have a new agricultural report. She gives clear leads. It determines a clear income measure. And then, of course, the Storting will see to it that the government follows. So it's not the Center Party that's gone over and made changes to what's been negotiated. It is the Left who has done so, both in 2014 and 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e476	In 2014, we could read in the Nations that investments in new buildings in Norwegian agriculture fell by 24 pst. The year before, that means the last of the eight years of the Central Party put in government and had power within this area. In 2016, the same newspaper highlights the farmers’ high investment ambition, and reference is made to 20 pst. increased growth in sales of, inter alia, sheep-fowl from poultry systems. It was after about two years with this government. Is not this increased willingness to invest and the positive view that farmers have of the future a good proof that today's policy is working?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e481	First of all, I thought that more people in both the Right and the Advance Party should start reading both the Bond and the Nation, there is a very important source of knowledge there. So I don't think we can evaluate agricultural policy from one year to the next. This is about longer-term trends. And it's clear that when one has a huge structural change, reduces small consumption and invests in large, investment will be high. We have now made significant investments in our agricultural policy option. We have made clear indications that it is also possible to invest in those garages that do not have the basis for increasing production. Because if we come in a situation where big cocks are modern and medium sized and small cocks are old-fashioned, we will over time come in a situation where we only have big cocks. I believe that the farmer who now takes an investment decision in ours and starts to build feathers now in ours, he also expects that in the fall elections it will go well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e490	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e495	The Labour Party has dealt with this matter with in particular four objectives. Increasing Norwegian food production depends on us to take care of some of the most important things we might face politically. The first is the climate challenges – there is nothing to suggest that climate will help us globally to produce more food. The second is that we believe that Norwegian food production is essential for food security and food security — the food we produce here in Norway is both so good, so healthy and so good that it is important to be willing to invest. The third is that we believe this is the key to maintaining the relatively scattered settlement we have in this country. The fourth is that agriculture is an unusually important supplier to a large food chain, which will create and already create great employment. That's why it's a paradox for us that in a situation where we spend 1,200 billion. SEK-1,300 billion. Every year on top of the state budget, we are there that we almost have both the negotiating institute and political friendship over control of over 100 million. kr. We're going to spend between 14 billion dollars. kr and 15 br. NOK 1200 billion. kr every year on what many of us experience as the most, most importantly: that we can feed our own people, but also contribute globally. For this reason, it has been extremely important for the Labour Party to help follow up what we said in the agricultural message – and many of us feel that the Left in particular is failing – to follow up what may be the most important indicator of both ensuring new recruitment and ensuring good production here in Norway, namely that it becomes profitable and that income gap between farmers and other groups is close. We can talk a lot about whether it's a percentage or a dollar, but when you're going to close an income gap, it's about dollars. There's no doubt about it. If the percentage is high enough, we can talk about percentages. But the closeness of the revenue gap, which most parties have signed up to, must be that the revenue should approach each other – that's how you get a close gap. It has therefore been important from the Workers' Party that we think more widely than what is traditionally done when we look at individual industries. We think structure, that small and medium-sized uses – as the Labour Party has done – need to be strengthened, that there is still a strong protection of imports, that farmers should be helped to continue to develop their productivity, and not least to adapt to the market. That is why we believe that our arrangement is a scheme for the future, and it is regrettable and sad that we do not get a majority for it today. So I have to attach some comments to the process. I have to say that the case rapporteur did not contribute to clarity about what is now going to happen, because it was said that the primary thing for the government parties, the Right Party and the Advance Party, was to send this back. Is that it? And it was said that secondary support was to be given to the left. It wasn't – it isn't. The main thing for the government parties is that it has been said that the government’s bid is 410 million. kr, and that is what the Stortinget is asked to adopt. So I have to say that with the confusion created, not only by the Left's handling of this matter, but now by the case rapporteur, I think the government parties are going to be very careful about accusing the opposition of tearing down the negotiating institute. If it really is that you now think that you should go back to the government offices and deliver to the agricultural trade unions a written order, it is not that negotiation. I would think that the trade unions – and I, if I had been sitting there – would have been concerned that you would be actually negotiating right now, when it was sent back. That's why I think it's more than ever important to ask questions about the negotiating institute, but I also think it's important to ask questions about what kind of opportunity the Stortinget has to control what's going to happen in the department. I think the government should answer that question. The second dimension of the process is – unfortunately for many of us, we would say – that this is a debate and a day that is about to bury District Left, a party that has a long tradition of contributing to the growth of precisely industries such as agriculture. It's sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e512	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e517	I first just want to clarify the misunderstanding that our primary position was to send it back. It was wrong, I tried to clarify it in the previous round as well. It was to accept the state's offer, and the second is to vote in favour of the Left's proposal in the case. The representative of Storberget speaks in large words about income targets and with clear and clear notice to the state in connection with both the agricultural notification and this matter. But why didn't the Workers' Party vote for chronic equality with SV in the context of the agricultural notification, and why is there no decision in this case that there should be a chronic similarity?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e524	In contrast to the Right and Advance Party, we were very comfortable with the formulation that was made when it came to the income gap in connection with the agricultural notification. We saw no reason to go into other definitions of this than what was actually there. What is stated in the comments on the agricultural report is that you have to close the revenue gap, and the right is on that note. It surprises me a little bit that you, I kept saying, don't see that if you're going to close a revenue gap, that means that groups are going to approach each other, and for us it was important to stand in that comment also because it has to be done with a lot of tools. The budgetary aspect is part of it, but it also needs to be done with market adaptation and productivity growth, and we have seen in recent years that we are on the right track to do it. I believe that the arrangement we laid down, and base it on today, could create further densification of this income gap.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e529	With respect to reporting: either the representative Storberget has not read the matter well enough, or he is just standing here lying. The aim of the income proposal is not to reduce the revenue gap. What does the representative think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e535	For me, reducing an income gap between two groups is actually reducing it, so it gets smaller and smaller. If you call it tightness or reduction, at least I have the clear understanding that we want from that majority – including the Right, they were involved in this – that farmers' incomes should approach comparable groups. When you reduce an income gap, it's the clear understanding of it. And then I just have to say that it's strange that the Right now runs from this formulation and is not willing to contribute to the fact that both through negotiations and the government's offer take greater action than what we've actually seen happen here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e540	Moreover, the President would point out that the term "lying" must be withheld from use.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e545	The representative of Storberget says there's a lot of confusion here. I also have something that is unclear, and which I will now try to get the representative Storberget to clarify for me. For me, it's almost impossible to understand what the Workers' Party thinks about the income target, besides that they want to spend 790 million. kr in 2018. That is why I should make it simple, it is a yes-or-no question: will the income target now used by the Workers' Party be that the target price withdrawals and budget support should be at least chronically equal to development and that the market balance should be added? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e550	I choose to answer as I sail want to answer the question. If you read the comments on the agricultural report, it is obvious from the Workers' Party's point of view – I also believe from the Progress Party, they are in the same comment – that they should reduce the income gap. Then you just want to do it using several types of tools when you calculate it. We believe that budget support is crucial in this, and it will have a great impact for many years to come. But we are totally dependent on the fact that the productivity trend observed among Norwegian food producers remains. It is also entirely dependent on having a market fit that increases efficiency and profitability. And then I believe that many of the instruments that the government parties now stand for help to make it more difficult to adapt to the market. It will not help to increase profitability.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e557	I record that the representative Storberget is trying to make sure analyses – I think he means – about the Left and how we will stand in the districts in the future. I don't think the representative will get it right. So to the question. The Labour Party has always pursued sound economic policies in the area of agricultural settlement, has been responsible for the proper use of budgetary resources and – as I understand it – has always voted in favour of the government's offer. At the same time, we have recently seen that the Workers' Party has shown a willingness to increase, in part, the use of budgetary resources in several cases, for example. in NTP. Is the representative Storberget comfortable with a use that they have proposed in this matter? And what is the representative's thinking about obligations in the years that result from this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e564	We are comfortable with what we have now proposed and put on the table. It is an approach that meets many of the needs of Norwegian food producers — much more than what the Left now contributes to. I am surprised at the Left in this, which in turn contributes to giving legitimacy and support to an agricultural policy that is guided from the outer right. There must be the Left's problem into this campaign, not ours. And I think, as I have said in reply to lines earlier, that we do not solve the income challenges for farmers with budget alone. We are totally dependent on continuing to think about productivity growth and impact, and also good market adaptation. It is therefore strange that the Left now contributes to the dismantling of important market regulation measures and does not guarantee a majority for, among others. what goes on in the information office, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e569	The representative of Storberget is in his last days as a representative of the national Parliament, at least for this time. I've learned to know the representative for the past six and a half years in the Business Committee, and I appreciate the knowledge and cooperation. In many ways, the representative is both perverse and honest in many ways. Despite this, it happens that we too at Stortinget have ups and downs. On such downhill days with gray weather and other negative factors, I tend to develop a version of the Class Battle from a Saturday in May 2014, where the representative Storberget willingly poses with a mountain reef from Svalbard, and where he is quoted with the following: ‘Agriculture policy is managed from my office.’ Is it still the impression of the representative?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e579	No, no, no. Since this is one of my last responses in Stortinget, I have to say that there is one newspaper article I would like to have read thoroughly the proof – and how it was angled – it is. But it is relevant in today's situation, for many of these important questions are decided in this room — in the Storting. That's the point. Therefore, in addition to drawing the lesson that you should always ask, at least in the case of the class struggle, to read the article before it is printed, that in the case of, among other things, the agricultural settlement, it is more important than ever that we have the opportunity to have a new round of it in Stortinget, after the so-called negotiations have taken place. And then I want to thank the representative, Bjørnstad, and to the extent that everyone else, for the sharp lines and fresh debates over many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e588	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e593	We are left to deal with the agricultural settlement in Stortinget, at least partially. I am equally happy every time, after the Right Party and the Advance Party took up the government offices, to exactly these debates. I've been in a few rounds of agricultural settlements, and there's always a lot of tension and feelings at the time of the settlement and what's going to happen. What we've seen this spring, however, has been something special. The requirements of agriculture were presented at the end of April and its offer was submitted on 5 May. Although both parties entered into the negotiations with a request for an agreement, however, there was a breach, and the case ended in Stortinget, where the starting point for the offer was to be based on the State's offer. Agriculture required an average net increase in income of NOK 31 700 per year, with requirements of SEK 1450 million. kr. As noted in the comments, agriculture placed great emphasis on following up the leadership resulting from the Storting's treatment of the agricultural notification, where the income target is to reduce the income gap between agriculture and other social groups. An important point for, among others: The progress party in this respect is that this can be achieved if a job is to have good market adaptations in its food production. Although farmers were offered an opportunity for higher income development than other groups, the parties chose to leave the negotiating table. In this process, I believe the farmers have not seen the contextual in the Norwegian economy before entering the negotiations. The country was willing to go far to meet agriculture, while this settlement has been marked by moderation. We have seen a slight rise, but business is struggling as a result of the falling oil price, since 2014. Many have been permitted and lost the job to go to, and several have fallen significantly into pay as a result of the necessary conversion. That is why it is important that we show moderation, including in the agricultural sector. Many people need to adapt to the fact that wage and cost developments should be in line with the development of our trading partners in the ongoing transition to the economy and business. We cannot disengage the agricultural sector from what is happening in the rest of the country, and therefore it is important that a show of responsibility to be part of the economic leadership of the agricultural policy. This is the last agricultural settlement during this ageing period and a fine opportunity to determine the state of play over the last four years. When the Progress Party took over the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in the autumn of 2013, there were several newspaper headlines that said that the Progress Party would rage the agriculture. Now, almost four years later, we see clearly that all the negative predictions have not become reality. There has never been more food produced in Norway than today, and the diversity of Norwegian food has never been better. Under the Ministers for Agriculture and Food of the Centre Party, we saw a decline in the number of full-time farmers of 47 p.m., while between 2013 and 2015 we saw 2 p.m. more farmers work full-time. Under this government, farmers have had a good income growth. The annual growth in the entrepreneurial income of farmers has been four times higher with a Advance Party Ministry of Agriculture and Food than with the Red-Greens. We are now self-sufficient in lamb meat and have seen an increase in the number of sheep farms since 2014, for the first time since 1990. In addition, there has never been such a strong commitment to infrastructure in forestry. There are just a few of the positive results, and I would need a lot more speaking time if I were to mention everyone. This shows that the government's agricultural policy works, and I believe that the government's offer in the agricultural settlement was an offer that would continue this good development. The provision provided incentives for increased food production across the country. The government would also stimulate more use of pasture and land resources in districts and for the production of cereals in central areas. For the Government and the Advance Party, it has been important to give priority to District Norway and to stimulate increased production in small, medium-sized and large-scale applications across the country. This, I think, was a good starting point for the negotiations, but was still not good enough to prevent the farmers from leaving the negotiating table. As mentioned at the outset, there was a breach that the settlement was sent to this house. I think on behalf of the whole committee can say that there was an exciting discussion until the end. There were questions on several occasions about whether we should have a majority for the Progress Party and the government's policy in finalising the settlement. As a result, the Left turned for 12 hours, I can today say that this story is going to be a happier end than what I feared. I believe that, together with the Right and Left, we have achieved a good result by sending the agricultural settlement back to the negotiating parties. In this respect, I would like to take the opportunity to praise the Left. The left went from the irresponsibility to which the other parties would put up, and instead sought against us, so that agriculture could have a framework based on more accountability and more realistic and sustainable framework conditions. What we are adopting today will be a good starting point for the parties to the agreement, and this is also an excellent opportunity for the state and agriculture to agree on a third consecutive year. I hope we have a good debate, and look forward to the further process of the year's agricultural settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e616	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e622	It may be difficult to inhale such self-satisfaction when you are in a situation where it has actually been broken. And then the recipe you're bragging about is how good you are, maybe not so good. Because it has been quite clear in the answer from the farmers that they are not satisfied with what they have been offered. But now it says that you need to strengthen the basis for grazing in the field. Is this true of the State's offer, or is it taken into account by the majority of the agricultural notification that said that land use should be strengthened but not at the expense of land use?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e627	I can assure the representative Botten that inhaling self-satisfaction is not difficult at all. We do that very easily, at least when we have such results to refer to, in relation to what the previous government had. We're very pleased with what we've managed to achieve in these four years we've been in government, and therefore we want to continue to sit in government, so that agriculture can continue to experience the growth they've had over these four years compared to the eight years when the party of the representative Botten put in power. We've made sure that farming has improved, investment has increased, we've been able to make sure we're self-sufficient in sheep, we've managed to make sure we take out more forest than we've ever done, and we've made sure that revenue has increased, actually much more than they did when the representative Botten and her party put in government. So we are satisfied and hope to continue for four more years to pursue the policy that agriculture can benefit from.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e634	The representative Ørsal Johansen takes advantage of the opportunity to settle the bill, a little selective reckoning, and the hairy elephant in the room he doesn't call at all. The government has announced that you would like to bet on the goal. Not only are agricultural and agricultural policy important, but predatory policy is also a very central issue. It doesn't make much sense to have good arrangements for the sheep if the sheep becomes one of the wolves. It's a fact that it's been a long time since there's been so much wolf, and it's been a long time since there was such a passive predatory policy as it was now. So my question is, when the representative Ørsal Johansen takes up his status after four years, whether he is satisfied with predatory policy, and especially with the wolf policy, which his own government has led?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e641	Yes, we have seen a development in the wolf population that is mildly alarming, and we now see that we have great losses on the wolf, even in my vicinity. It's worrying. The Minister of Agriculture and Food and the Prime Minister were in Hadeland yesterday to see the situation, and I think that is very positive. The Prime Minister has now begun to take action on the subject of the poaching policy, and it shows that it is now time to do something. Of course it would have been desirable to have done something earlier, but it was not possible to get a majority for it in this house, and it seems the undersigned is sorry. But at least what's positive is that we now seem to have a prime minister who engages personally in it, and then I expect that we will get a solution to it, and that we will get good results from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e646	I have never doubted the government's willingness to travel out and look at the wolf, but I have drawn into doubt the government's willingness to shoot the wolf. Let it be clear. The representative said in his statement that if there was now a consensus in these adjustment negotiations, there would be a good deal of agreement for three out of four years. It must well be that the result of the agricultural decision this year was that there was a breach, that there was no agreement, and that it should be done now is to have a distribution debate within a 625 million frame. kr, according to the instructions in the left of the note. Does the representative agree with the description of what is going to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e653	Now I don't know if the representative Pollestad expects it to be the government that's going to shoot the wolf. I think we're going to leave it to someone who's a little bit more comfortable with it than both the Minister of Agriculture and the Prime Minister. I think they can do that in an excellent way, because now they've got what they need to do it. I also see that the government uses the methods that it is possible to use. When it comes to the agricultural settlement and the break-up and the agreement: honestly, if we get this back and they come to an agreement, then they come to an agreement, and that must be good. Asking them to start negotiating again is something the Storting has the right to do, and I think that is good. It is better that they come to an agreement between themselves, even if the Storting asks them for it, than that the Storting decides too much here in the house. Then we've put some leads into what I think is positive, and I think agriculture and the government will appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e660	The representative of Ørsal Johansen, in his contribution, is calling for moderation in the agricultural sector. The government proposes what, in dollars, will mean $7,000 in salary growth for the farmers, while the average for most employees is $14,000. Yesterday, Stortinget, with the representative of Ørsal Johansen, decided to raise the salary of SEK 21 674. Why is it right for the representatives themselves to receive a salary increase of NOK 21 674, whereas it is wrong to have a salary increase of NOK 14 000 for the farmers?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e667	Agriculture has experienced an income growth that has been quite adventurous in recent years. The annual growth rate for the industry between 2005 and 2013 was 2.1 pst, while between 2013 and 2015 it was 7.8 pst. It also turns out that full-time farmers have had a very adventurous wage trend, especially in the last two years. In 2009, the income of full-time farmers was 10 p.m. lower than the average wage for all full-time employees, while full-time farmers in 2015 had an annual salary of 18 p.m. higher than the average annual salary for all employees. That is, we have managed to give them a pay increase that has been adventurous, and I am very pleased with that. As far as the Storting and the income of the representatives of big business is concerned, we have decided that we have a payroll commission, and it's short-lived, at least for the Progress Party and other parties, that we adopt what this payroll commission is presenting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e674	Since there is a lot of confusion about the process around this agricultural settlement, I would like to hear from the other government figure on how to evaluate the process further. Firstly, is it so to understand that the Progress Party is now being renegotiated, but with a ceiling of 625 million. kr in the framework, or are the parties free to negotiate? Secondly, I agree with the representative Ørsal Johansen that we hope that we can negotiate for consensus, but what happens if a breach occurs? Will the leadership of the Left be taken into account, or should the leadership of the government parties be taken into account? The third is, to what extent does Stortinget have the opportunity to exercise its political control in relation to such important sizes?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e679	I think much of the ambiguity that is created is not just created by the Progress Party and the government parties. Others have also been involved and contributed to it. The matter is now sent back to the parties. They shall negotiate and reach an agreement. When it comes to what happens when a breakup occurs, I'm really not worried about it. First, they have a good starting point – much better than they've ever had. I believe you on both sides of the table are interested in getting a consensus, and then I think they'll get a consensus. If there is a breach, the Storting must take it into account when it happens, which I don't think is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e686	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e692	Less than two months ago, we adopted a new agricultural policy in this Chamber. In the attitude of the agricultural message, there was a clear direction and clear objectives for what the Stortinget wanted for our agriculture. That's why I, and I'm going to believe many people with me, gave reason that this was going to be followed up by the government at all times in the years to come, and especially in the context of the agricultural settlement. It should also be clear to the government today. In the offer to the trade unions, the state hits many flashes, but there are also some serious bombings. The Christian People's Party has since it became clear that the negotiating parties did not reach an agreement, were ready to follow up the policy that had been adopted and adopted, and also follow up the Storting's intention. That is why we were also ready to conclude the agricultural settlement in 2017, as the Council of State said at the press conference where the trade unions and the state told us that they had not reached an agreement. We are now in a very unique situation. A majority in this Chamber will later adopt a framework, adopt a device, and then ask the trade unions and the State to sit down again for new negotiations. It's something completely new. It's historic. For the Christian People's Party, raising incomes in agriculture has always been a priority. Int. 251 S for 2016-2017, an overall committee is behind a new and ambitious revenue target, which clearly states that the income gap between agriculture and other groups should be reduced and that the possibility of income should be raised in order to ensure recruitment. I can't read this note in Innst. 251 S for 2016–2017 in any other way than that a total increase a few weeks ago wanted to reduce the revenue gap and raise revenue. And even though I'm not a mathematician, I can't see any other way of doing this than with a chronically equal development -- if the gap isn't to be increased instead of being reduced. That three of the parties, which constituted the majority in this note, choose to go away from this today and thus break the goal we set together, is disappointing. For the Christian People's Party, it is quite clear that increased income development must be measured in crowns and not in percentages. That is why today, together with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, we are also presenting a proposal for a framework that provides a level playing field. Having said that, I can at the same time state that agriculture will also contribute to this development of income. We have skilled and innovative farmers in Norway, and we still have to, so that we can produce more food for the market. And as the Christian People's Party also writes in today's position, agriculture through its producer cooperatives will be responsible for market balancing. The loss of industry's income due to market imbalances arises as both lower revenues than foreseen and higher costs than in a balanced market. That is why we believe that the budget item for the coming years must assess the costs of market imbalance and include it as part of the basic material. But let me also make it clear that it is not reasonable to correct for unused price potential, such as. the target price, which has been included in the previous settlement and framework. During the last few weeks, there has been a lot of talk about one of the objectives set in the Agriculture Communication, the income target, but the Stortinget also set another important objective in this Communication: the production target. Here we say that we should have increased food production on the basis of Norwegian land resources. Income is important in achieving this objective, but other instruments contribute to this. It is essential that we take the potential into account in production where we have unused potential, for example: in the green sector, in the food grain sector and not least in the case of bovine animals. Today we import huge quantities of beef, while we have land resources that we could use to produce it ourselves. Crustaceans-based livestock products such as milk and beef/sheep meat point at the highest value creation per tonne of finished product. This production contributes more to employment and value added than much else. The Christian People's Party is concerned with predictability of the industry. The government’s 2017 settlement proposal makes several interventions that will give a large negative impact on parts of the country and on individual producers. An example of this is the sharp increase in the feed price, which will greatly increase the costs for farmers involved in pig, poultry and eggs. I am pleased that in our proposal we halve this increase, which will also be positive for other livestock producers. Another example of what can be called government play with the predictability of farmers is the changes proposed in the area grant to grass. Here it is removed or cut in three zones. A geographical distribution of production is essential; there is no doubt about it, but it is now not possible to grow cereals on all areas of the so-called cereal regions. Therefore, the area grants must be balanced between the aim of channelling and the purpose of the operation of all agricultural land in the country. The government's proposal also fails at this point. As I have said many times before in this room, agriculture will also contribute to the green shift and take its share of climate responsibility. We know that they also want to do this, and we have climate action as well as measures that help to increase food production. One of these measures is drainage, and here agriculture itself has asked for an increase in rates so that more people can do so. I am therefore pleased that, in our agreement, we are raising the rate to NOK 2 000 per dean, which will give a climate effect and better and more land to grow food on. We in the Christian People's Party stand for what we have said, and I am pleased that from the four parties in the proposal we present today, we strengthen the backbone of milk production, namely the average feathers, which have lived in the shadow of robotic feathers in recent years. We are totally dependent on these uses to maintain an active agriculture throughout our country, but many are struggling to deal with the renewal costs based on the land base they have from nature. That is why we are strengthening the IBU scheme, and therefore we are now making clear the importance of prioritising these uses within investment vehicles. When I'm out to meet young farmers, they often say they're ready to take over the farm. But they're putting some challenges on us. One of these challenges is that they say they are concerned about having good holiday and leisure arrangements. That is why we are strengthening the holiday and leisure arrangements in the proposal we have presented today. Also speaking to the farmer is important if we're going to keep getting a new generation into it. But first of all, it's the income they're busy with. They want to have income developments like others in the country. When I meet farmers who live in the less central parts of the country, but who are the backbone of Norwegian agriculture – where the grass is, where the wilderness is, where it is a little far to the nearest center – they say that they are concerned that a veterinarian comes when the animals on the farm get sick, that there are good services, and that it is also possible to have some economy left after the veterinarian has traveled. That's why it was important for the Christian People's Party to strengthen the veterinary supplement in the manner we put on the table. The Christian People's Party has today, together with the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV, put in place a proposal where we say that we give farmers more income through a chronically equal development. We give priority to strengthening rural agriculture, we give farmers predictability, we strengthen welfare schemes, and we pay homage to farmers primarily for the important job they do. It is the Christian People's Party's policy for the peasants. It's the Christian People's Party's policy, which I had hoped also the Center Comrade Left had given its support through this settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e728	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e733	The representative Hemdal refers in this case to the agricultural report and the objectives there, which we very much agreed on. But now the representative Hemdal has spoken very clearly about the fact that the income target is chronically equal to development. Why did not the Christian People's Party vote for the SV's proposals in connection with the agricultural communication, which was about this? And if it's the case that the Christian People's Party has turned the case around, why doesn't the representative promote proposals for chronically equal development?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e740	Thank you for this good question, for it clearly confirms that it is the Right who has turned this case around. It is not possible to read this comment in any other way – this to the representative Foss. In order to ensure recruitment and to increase industrial income opportunities, the Committee considers that «the income target shall be to reduce the revenue gap». When something is below, it has to be lifted, and it's only done in crowns and ears. That is what this representative said on 25 April in this Chamber, from this pulpit. It is not surprising, I said that when we negotiated this remark – it is not surprising. What's surprising is that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left are turning around for this comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e749	The government parties clearly believe that we are reducing the revenue gap. 18-20 pst. increase over the last four years is, in my opinion, to reduce. But I ask again, if it's obvious to the representative that it means chronically equal development, why is it not clarified, so that everyone understands that the Christian People's Party means this, is chronically equal to development?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e756	I'm not a mathematician, I admit -- I have little math in my education -- but when the government presents a 410-million bill to the Stortinget. I do not understand that the representative Foss can say that it is reducing the income gap, when chronically equal development is 790 million. kr. For me, there's a big gap between the two numbers. How does the representative get the equation and the math to go up? At 410 million. kr will reduce an income gap, I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e761	The channelling policy has ensured extensive grazing and animal husbandry in District Norway. It is very important for small and medium-sized applications across the country. In my county, Oppland, the valleys of Gudbrandsdalen and Valdres represent an important part of milk production. It is important to avoid distorting this balance between the different productions in the country, which could lead to the degradation of valuable food soils and the reduction of animal husbandry in District Norway. In order to prevent this, it is important to strengthen the grain economy in the flatlands and to increase the incentive for roughage-based livestock production, in order to maintain it in the districts. In total, this is also important climate and environmental policies. In the left we think that the Christian People's Party in this year's settlement leflers with a conversion on the flatlands. How will the Christian People’s Party care for livestock in the districts? What are the party's thoughts about the relationship between cereals and roughage?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e768	Thank you very much for this important question. As I said in my speech, the channelling policy is committed to the Christian People's Party. But it is not possible to believe that you should not also be able to have grass cultivation and milk production on it called flatlands, and I can say in my constituency, Eastfold, because it is also important when we are going to increase food production. When I meet dairy farmers in Eastfold, they're proud of that job. Østfold is most prominent in the field of eco-modulation of milk. That should really make a left-heart happy. We stand up for rural agriculture by raising and facilitating investment funds — in Uppland — in terms of average poultry. So this goes on and on and on. We strengthen farmers who produce milk in grain areas where the government cuts, in zone 1, but we also strengthen the IBU funds. It's having a balance point.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e777	I thank you for the answer, but I have to say it's very perceptive. That's one of the reasons why the Left and Christian People's Party separates layers here. There is no problem in centralising food production in Norway in Eastfold, around Mjösa, in Rogaland and around Trondheimsfjorden, but then we move the livestock production and grazing out of the valleys of Valdres and Gudbrandsdalen. What are we going to replace employment with there? It's going to be a big challenge. That is what this is all about – the structural policy that we must maintain. The representative was concerned that young farmers were concerned with income. Yes, but the young farmers I meet are also concerned with the investments: What does an investment have to do to drive for the future? And when the representative says "in the shadow of robotics": 30 pst. The milk is now derived from robotics — it is obviously future. How are we going to make it possible for more people to participate in that investment? What is the Christian People's Party's answer regarding futures here?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e786	The Christian People's Party's answer to the future is that we should take care of the backbone of Norwegian agricultural policy, which is average. In the grassland we are, we have to make provision for spring from the area that is close to the pond – in Uppland, in Sogn and Fjordane, in Hordaland. In comments on the agricultural notification, in the policy we are discussing today, we point out that we are raising average farms. This is the Christian People's Party's policy. We pride ourselves on such a district policy. We are facilitating such a district policy. It was in Eastfold the first milking robot was in a pond. We also need them, but the average feathers have been in the shadow of the robot birds for too many years. That is why we must now have an investment package for the backbone of Norwegian agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e793	For 790 million. kr the opposition lots shall reverse a conversion of the grazing premium and a price write-down on the potato crisp, have an increase in the feed price and have a conversion of the area premium. In addition, they must have a significant increase in the operating premium for milk and breast-feeding. They shall strengthen the animal contribution to sheep, the premium to deer, the area grant to cereals, the premium on fruit, berries and vegetables, the cargo arrangements, the subsidy on veterinary travel, on organic farming and on welfare schemes. Thinks the representative Hemdal is $790 million. kr is enough for all this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e801	The representative Heimdal knows that's enough, because this is calculated down to the last million. We in the Christian People's Party believe, but in terms of agricultural policy, we know. That's the difference between the representative of Ørsal Johansen and me: we know that this works, we know that this is within 790 million. kr. But I know that this equation is going up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e806	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e811	The negotiating rights of agriculture, granted by the main agreement, have a special role to play in agriculture compared to most other traders. This special role that agriculture has, we also want in the future. And let it be said right away: Farm farming is a very important matter – for farmers and agriculture directly, but also for food industries, for suppliers, for cultural landscapes and for Norwegian society. That could have been said a lot more. The settlement of the year ended in breach. The left wants the parties to regroup and reach agreement. By the fact that the Storting indicates some framework and leadership, we believe this will be possible, and that will give real negotiations. I perceive that the breach comes because there is disagreement about the interpretation of the income target in Meld. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The overall objective is to reduce the income gap between agriculture and other groups in society, but I must stress that in the same section the Committee added that good market adaptation and productivity development are a prerequisite for income development. There is an income option of 350 million. kr for agriculture whose market is balanced on all products. If this possibility of income is not taken into account, we're going to have a strange situation. After all, agriculture does not need the tools they have for market regulation, since they are no longer going to take the cost of overproduction. Then all of a sudden we are in a new situation, which I don't think agriculture is served. How, then, should the market be regulated and who should take the cost? The left records that a fraction of the business committee consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and SV use an increase in addition to what agriculture itself requires to finance its framework. I have full respect for that. But the Left believes that the demand for agriculture is well-considered and adapted to what is considered reasonable. Nor should there be any doubt that the Committee provided for a reduction in the revenue gap, as mentioned above, and not for the sealing of the revenue gap. Agricultural policy must always take account of costs and competitiveness, both for agriculture and for the food industry. All stages in the value chain are important in order to achieve a good overall result. International conditions increasingly affect the framework conditions for agriculture and the food industry. Imports of agricultural products are increasing. The difference between Norwegian and international prices is increasing, although it varies between products and markets. This affects competitiveness and weakens the impact of import protection. The competitiveness of the food sector is essential to maintain a high domestic share and the objective of increased food production in Norway. Given the competitiveness of the food sector, price increases are moderate. There are good developments in many areas of agriculture. The total volume of production is increasing and the growth in the turnover of local food is about two and a half times higher than in the rest of the daily food market. The reduction in the number of agricultural holdings is lower and the area take-off surfaced. All of this is especially pleasing. The channelling policy is an important element for the Left in the agricultural policy. The left considers that the channelling policy with extensive grazing and animal husbandry in District Norway should be in force and reinforced. This is very important for small and medium-sized applications. The left will have a strengthening of such use. It also means that food soils and areas are maintained throughout Norway. Interpolating the balance between the different productions could result in more milk and meat production in central areas and thus less Norwegian cereal production. In addition, it can lead to the degradation or set-aside of valuable food soils and the reduction of animal husbandry in District Norway – I say can. The left does not want this. It is therefore also important to strengthen the grain economy in the flatlands and to increase the incentive for roughage-based livestock production to remain in the districts. Economic sustainability is important for the Left, but we've wanted a higher framework than what the state put forward in its offer. We have also been aware that the industry itself is responsible for reducing the revenue gap towards other industries by keeping the market in balance. The left wants a new frame to be 625 million. kr – at least 625 mill. NOK – and that the difference between the country’s offer of SEK 410 million. NOK and new frame of 625 million. SEK shall be financed by fresh budgetary resources of 215 million. NOK 130 million. SEK that can be allocated in 2018 from the equity of the Agricultural Development Fund but thus SEK 625 million. kr in fresh means. The allocation of the LUF will further strengthen agricultural incomes in 2018, and will improve the market balance. Left asks the parties to use the enhanced space for action to strengthen small and medium-sized applications, to strengthen the basis for land grazing, to give priority to the development programme to stimulate complementary industries/localisation and to facilitate agricultural travel. In addition, the left will continue the ecological effort, provide better investment opportunities in buildings and soils within a varied use structure, intensifying climate and environmental work, inter alia. by using more wood in buildings and strengthening drainage facilities, and of course we will keep the Norwegian akevit and want to continue to stimulate potato crisp production. Normally the agricultural settlement would have been finalised today, so I have a strong recommendation to the parties to prioritize rapid progress. The target price and the feed price shall be effective from 1 July 2017, while the budget support of the agricultural agreement shall be effective from 1 January 2018. In order to ensure that real negotiations are carried out with the leading companies, the Left proposes setting the target price and the feed price before returning the settlement. The left therefore proposes the changes in the target prices that lie in the agricultural requirements and in the offer made by the State. To a lesser extent, the left wants an increase in the feed price than provided for in the offer made by the State and proposes that the price reduction subsidy to Norwegian cereals be continued at unchanged rates and that the subsidy to Norwegian food grain be increased by 4 øre per kg from the current rates. Biogas is part of the green shift we're in, and we support III in the recommendation, where the Storting asks the government that when building industrial plants for the production of biogas based on, among other things. food waste is also prepared for the receipt of manure. I would like to take the opportunity to include the Left's proposal in the vote. Since we are also debating Innst. 372 S, concerning the labelling of foodstuffs for animal welfare, forage and antibiotic use and Innst. 371 S, a ban on cage hens and a ban on the labelling of eggs from cage hens until the ban is in place, I would like to address the proposals made by the Left in the two cases. And finally, the agricultural policy that has been pursued during this period is a result of a policy that the centre of Norwegian policy has put the most solid stamp on. Not least the work that the Left and Christian People's Party has done today has contributed to it. A mix of keeping the institutions and the culture on which Norwegian agricultural policy is based, while we are looking for possible new innovative solutions, the Left is concerned, and I think we have done that in the period we are now finishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e859	The representative of Pål Farstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e866	The left assumes great responsibility for the development of Norwegian agricultural policy with the measures that have now been taken, and – I kept saying – those that are not being taken. It's about the economy in this -- you could have had an opportunity to raise this a little bit more than what the Left now signals. The target price for pigs is a matter that has been dealt with by many people and has been put into play due to the handling of this by the Left. Purchases in the case of goats, which I know Left has been involved in, are in play. Organic farming is also at stake. Is it true that in these areas – perhaps a little outside the framework itself – there are also signals from the Left to the Government when negotiating with the trade unions, and that there may be results that would actually be more consistent with the policies of the Left than they are today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e873	As regards the issue of pigs, we clearly clarified our position in the Agriculture Communication. So I'll leave it here. But in terms of both organic farming and other issues that the representative Storberget raised, there are things where we are taking the lead, and that we in dialogue with the Council of State have been very concerned about being taken into account in the process that is about to take place. Then I would say that we were sitting in a chat room for a few days, Storberget, signed and several others, and that was an answer to the fact that we were not satisfied with the level we were on. Therefore, we wanted to test whether it was right to go with the rest of the opposition, but found the amount discussed too high.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e882	I wonder about the Left, who is now putting these things into play and not getting any clarification, but putting the leads – and risk losing. That's why I believe that District-Left goes on a click with what you're doing now. But then it's about process. I heard the post to Farstad now, where he said that the frame and the leads were indicated. At the end of the article he also talked about at least 625 million. kr. The Left now sees that the negotiations to be conducted are free of charge with regard to the framework, so that at least 625 million can be obtained. kr, but that the framework can also be negotiated higher, and that there is no thank you for what the framework should be like?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e889	The left has not set a roof. The left has said 625 million. kr. We're comfortable with that, and we've explained that. We believe that this is a significant promise – which should also be welcomed by the representative of Storberget – from what was the original offer, and the offer that existed at the time of the breach. So the undersigned is very comfortable with how this should now be taken further. I have expectations that we will have an impact here on the policy that we are concerned about and that we have put forward in the text here. I think we should wait with the judgment above the left until we have seen the result of the process that is going to go. And then I really have to expect the parties to go into it with life and light.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e896	From 1 October 2013, the representative, Farstad, and I have had many conversations and worked a lot together, and I have great respect for the representative, Farstad. I don't think I'm talking too much from these conversations if I describe Farstad with one word, and that word is predictability. That's something that the representative Farstad has been busy about a lot of times. In what we have on the table today, there is no predictability in some important areas, for example. when the area payments are cut and removed in zones 1, 3 and 4. These cuts make us get less food production, and it's bad for the environment and the climate. I know that the representative of Farstad is concerned with organic food production, and one of the best areas in the country in terms of the production of organic milk is in Eastfold. The policy that the government is now pursuing is underpinning this. How is that predictability?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e903	First I have to be allowed to thank for good words. It was nice, and I'd like to send them back, with regard to the conversations we've had these years. In the case of organic farming, we have put in a very clear expectation that the bet on it will not be weakened. And sometimes you have to trust that what you put in expectations is actually being fulfilled. I have expectations that the Minister of Agriculture will really take that into account in the process that is about to take place. However, in the case of milk production, I must stress that we believe that it should take place primarily in those areas where it is not possible to grow cereals, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e911	The size is in a special situation. The main spokesman of the Progress Party says that today's decision will give a majority of the government's policy, the Left turned for 12 hours – would praise the Left. When one hears the Chief Speaker of the Left, one must note that the Left has not proposed a decision on the framework when one is faced with distribution negotiations. The left has not clarified what the frame is. What's being said suggests that the frame is 755 million. kr. I want confirmation as to whether it is the framework from which it is to be distributed, or not. Secondly, money is to be distributed from minority comments from the Left. That's a completely impossible situation. The left says, among other things: that one should continue the ecological effort, as the Left second time in Stortinget has said is wrong, because one has wanted to strengthen the ecological effort. This is deliberately unclear.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e920	When the left chose to do it the way we did it now, it was because we thought the frame was too high, as it was supposed to stay in the discussions that we had with, among other things. the lot represented by Lundtigen. For the Left, it has been important to make sure, as far as possible, that what we are concerned about, and what we have put in clear texts here, is being fulfilled. We have received clear messages from both the Prime Minister and the Council of State that we can count on the expectations that we have to meet. That's my answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e925	I feel that the representative from the left is very clear that the frame is 625 million. kr. At the same time, Mr Farstad's representative says that there is no roof, that there should be no lead on the negotiators. That means one can also get a result that is greater than 625 million. kr. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e930	Yes, for us, the floor plan is the most important one. That we have 625 million. kr as a bottom plank is the most important one. I feel that there is a broad and good consensus on that. It has also been made clear, I believe, by the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party here in the Chamber – this will be followed up. I have no reason to believe anything else. So the floor plan is 625 million. kr. Any other means must come to its fore. 625 million. kr is the floor plank.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e935	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e940	SV's starting point for all this agricultural-rich spring through which we have been through has been four things: Firstly, we have been concerned with security in general. Norway is not self-sufficient today when it comes to food production – far from it. We're very dependent on foreign inputs. In the time we live in, with climate challenges and a more worrying value, it is even more important that a security perspective begins to build up the Norwegian capacity to produce food for its own people. For this reason, in connection with the agricultural communication, we have come up with very specific wording on what should be the objectives of Norwegian agricultural policy. Item No 2 is related to this. If we're going to be able to have a proper food security in this country, we're going to have to use the natural resources we have in this country. That means that we need a policy that adds up to using the whole country, all the resources we have available in Norway. So the developments we've seen over time, where one has centralised more and more of agricultural production, and where one has been more dependent on inputs that one has imported from abroad, we've gone against. We think it's wrong development, it weakens Norwegian food security. This is also the reason why, in connection with the message and in the negotiations around the data subject, we have set out to establish a ceiling on how much agricultural policy can be allowed to do. Why do we care about that? Well, because it doesn't have the kind of thing to do today, it has an engine that drives gardeners to build bigger and boost their production, and that makes sure to acquire more of the rights to produce. The third point is environment, in a broad sense. It stretches from SV's commitment to organic farming, which not only has important effects on soil health and its development, but is also an answer to the evolution we see among consumers, who are increasingly demanding it. If we're going to keep the import protection that we have in Norway today, it's absolutely crucial that we increase organic production. The climate we know is a challenge for the world and for Norwegian agriculture, and here we have pointed to many different proposals, which we have also included in the negotiations. Finally, and not least, incomes: to increase the capacity of Norway to produce food, a recruiter must be a farmer for the profession and make it lucrative to start as a farmer. There are large and increasing differences in income in agriculture. One sees that the larger the use, the larger the income. There is a wrong development, especially if the aim is to use more of the Norwegian resources. Then an advantage has to be much greater. Therefore, we want to pursue a very active distribution policy throughout this spring. It has been a very nice process – at least with some – during the negotiations at Stortinget. SV has cooperated well with the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party to become some. We also cooperated well with the Left for a while, until it was suddenly not possible to cooperate anymore. We've got a solution that has a very strong district effort. We strengthen the small and medium-sized practices considerably compared to what is planned for the government. There are investments in the West and in North Norway that have been given the strongest priority in our approach – good bets on goat farmers and the smallest sheep farms. Not least, we are calling for the creation of a new instrument of agricultural policy, an operational disadvantage, which we really hope we will be able to get multiples for today, even though there has not yet been a clear signal from the Left on that. It can give an important incentive to really use the parts of the country where it is harder to operate. This has been a very special process, and we are now being thrown out a situation that no one knows where will end. SV has often been criticised for weakening the negotiating institute when we have been asked to adjust the arrangements that the parties have arrived at in negotiations. Oh, my God. What's the order now? That's $625 million. Do you really want to delete this Can you go over it? What kind of negotiations is this? When will the Storting on the track again? There are so many unsolved questions in this case that no one can know for sure whether it is the complete chaos we are fighting, or not. It's the responsibility of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e963	I wish the representative of Knag Fylkesnes to address the proposal made by SV in case No. Three?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e968	I'll definitely do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e973	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e978	I would like to stand here today based on the fact that we had landed an agricultural agreement with the Farmers and Farmers for the coming year. I think there is a responsibility on the state to try to reach such agreements, and I think that the state was far in supply, but also through the negotiations, about both the framework and the device to get it to. Unfortunately, one doesn't close with it. However, I think that the situation we now have in Stortinget, despite some articles here, is clear. He is manageable for the state when one gets the order that the plurality in this hall seems to join today. It provides a basis for managing it. Since the main discussion has not been about the offer from the state, but around what is happening, I'm also going to use most of my post on it. There are several issues that have been raised, but first let me make the final statement: I have taken the signal from the left. I know where the political landscape is. And agriculture can expect them to get an offer in line with Left's remark. But it's with the agriculture I'm negotiating, not with the storeroom. This means that details about ‘certain that, if so,’ the parties to the agreement will clarify when one is sending it back. I therefore ask that the Stortinget also respect the fact that the negotiating institute causes the negotiating parties to negotiate in a negotiating situation and that one does not do so in a debate in Stortinget. With that solution, the majority of the majority now well, my answer must go to the negotiating parties. But the devices and frames for which the Left leads today, I have taken the signal about. Agriculture can count on the state acting with real willingness to negotiate, based on the leaders of the Storting. I feel that the bulk of the population today says clearly that the background to a well-managed approach to agriculture for the next year in this way is that one thing that I would like to say is that the way to do it is what the negotiating institute cares most about. Then it is up to me to do it in such a way that the parties also experience that we are in real conversations. That's what the Storting might be saying that I'm going to do. We still have a lot to do. Some of the things that slip me today are that the Left is also clear in some other areas, for example. Canalisation policy — what has long been a prestigious concept in a global context, the main basis for increasing total food production and thus achieving the production target set by the Stortinge in the handling of the agricultural notification. But one cannot believe that one achieves the best possible channelling policy with being able to give priority. That is why I have made it clear in my first offer to agriculture, and I am therefore pleased that the Left too now clearly states that the channelling policy is important. The distribution, the strengthening of the grain economy in the cereals sector and the strengthening of the incentives for grass production in the districts will be left to the left. That's very good. But this discussion also needs to be based on what is agropolitically achievable. Now, for a couple of hours, we have discussed the income target for agriculture, but farmers are not wage earners. They're self-employed. The size of this debate has the mark that farmers now promise a certain level of income. No one does. No one can do it either. What one can promise Norwegian farmers is a level of subsidies fixed by the Stortinget. But how it turns on the income of the seventh and last, the Storting can never guarantee, because the farmers fortunately take up most of the income of the market. The device that the opposition is now pointing to is that they want to spend the most money in the productions where we already have a market balance or overproduction. The consequence of this may be an increase in the level of subsidies but a decrease in revenue due to a deterioration in the market situation. Therefore, it was time for the Workers' Party Knut Storberget to do what he did in the change of line with Morten Ørsal Johansen, simply to clarify how to understand the income target. It was new from the Workers' Party. I have tried to get an answer to that in the last few days, but it explained Storberget well today. For the next year, the Labour Party believes that a $790 million frame is required. In the future, a market balance must be taken into account. It's clarifying how we're actually going to understand the income target. But the farmers are responsible for the market situation, and that is why the Storting agrees to let them retain many of the market mechanisms. The farmers are also responsible for obtaining prices in the market, and therefore the country has never before collected more in the target price than agriculture has demanded, because it is agriculture itself that must actually bear the cost if they do not reach the target. Then it doesn't give the income growth that some of those who have had the word before me make it, if one doesn't close. That's what's the biggest difference today. The Labour Party now thinks something different than they always meant when they rule, and they mean something other than they think – it's just a statement. They mean something else now than they want to think if they come into a ruling position again, because the Labour Party has used to be responsible for agricultural policy. They understand that there is a balance between price withdrawals and revenue from the State budget. The most important thing we've achieved in these four years is actually getting the farmers to pick up more in the market and less in transfers. At the same time, this has led to an increase in revenue. That is the policy we must pursue. It is good that the Workers' Party has now clarified the income target. I record that I must have misunderstood the Storting in one thing when I saw the comments on the agricultural message. It is a matter of understanding that a wanted increase in production on Norwegian resources. Based on the debates we have had, I imagined that it meant increasing the feed price to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian grass production. Per Olaf Lundtägen, as a representative in this Chamber today, has said on the in-and-out breath for 30 years that this is the understanding. I gave it a reason. It's possible, when a great crowd reads today, that I shouldn't have done it. I thought the big crowd thought it was the way one could increase the value of Norwegian grass. I have warned against too strong steps on it because it accidentally turns on power feed-requiring productions, but the Storting has been very clear that it is necessary. Today, Per Olaf Lundtigen, unless he clarifies anything else, must vote in order to reduce the feed price in addition to the original supply from the country. A minority government always controls based on the majority of the population in Stortinget, but in some questions, the majority of population has been shown to be shifting in a short time. It happened with the income target, but it's not the Left, Right and the Progress Party that's turned around. The Right Party and the Progress Party have been involved in setting the income target in the agricultural note, precisely because the understanding was known. For the majority in Stortinget, the understanding was known, and then one makes it look like it's the plural that's turned around. The multiple has not been flipped. It's the plural that has stood firm, and there are others who have navigated. There's nothing wrong with it, if you're honest that it's a do. I feel that the Workers' Party was in a line change after Morten Ørsal Johansen. It is therefore possible for me again to see that even if one agrees on the budget transfers in 2018, one still does not agree with the opposition's side on what the income target actually means.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1003	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1009	This whole agricultural settlement has been a very unfair process, and it does not get clearer after we have heard the parties – and so far the Council of State – today. Now we have heard from the representative of Farstad that 625 is the floor plan of what is to be submitted, and that deletion is not a thank you. We have heard from the representative Ørsal Johansen that, in the event of a breach of these negotiations, Stortinget will have to decide again on the matter. I would like to challenge the Council of State: does he see that this would be unfair to agriculture as such, and that it would be better if the government had actually anchored in advance, before the real negotiations were started, and then what kind of majority you had in Stortinget, that the framework was actually higher than what was left of the state, and that you would then have real negotiations? What really undermines the negotiating institute is that you haven't anchored, not operated on what Stortinget said a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1018	In the light of the fact that the State anchors its negotiating position in Stortinget before negotiating with agriculture, Norway's Bondelag and Norsk Bonde- and Småbrugerlag are checkmates. The negotiating institute has never, as far as I know, practiced this. So the situation that Knut Storberget now asks for would have led the negotiating institute, as formulated in the main agreement, to collapse. But it's easy to understand the leads from the left. They say: formal framework 625. This was also said by the representative of Pål Farstad no. And then they say that besides that, one can use released funds from the LUF – 130 million. kr, they say it in their note – for distribution. So the interpretation of it is very simple – if you want to understand the interpretation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1024	Then I understand that the Council of State perceives the leadership of the Left – 625 – as the amount set. It would be interesting to hear: are you going to negotiate the most important instrument in the agricultural business, that is, the framework, or aren't you going to? The second is, there are many other questions you've been dealing with. The target price for pigs is such a question. Now the council says he should listen to signals from the Left. The representative of Farstad said in the previous row that it had made clear to the Left when it came to the agricultural message. Is it the case that the view of the Left relating to the target price for pigs will also lead the negotiations of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1033	If the representative Storberget wants to negotiate agriculture with me, he should look for a job in the Norwegian Bondelag or Norwegian Bonde and Small User Teams. I'm not negotiating agriculture here. The farmers that I know are in the gallery should be able to expect me to act cleanly, and I intend to do that. This means that questions that indicate a clear negotiating position from the state, without my having informed the negotiating parties about it, will not be answered either by Knut Storberget or by other representatives in this Chamber. It would undermine the negotiating positions. One would like to ask, but the answer I'm negotiating with will be, and not the Storting, at this point in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1037	The Council of State stresses many times in his statement that he has understood the device and the leaders from the Left, and that he will base this on. Everything else would have been alarming. I do not expect the State Council to negotiate here in Stortinget, but that one should negotiate at some point – perhaps for the week or something like that. I have a specific question about the negotiations that were. The Council of State does not need to hear from the negotiations, but 410 million. kr, which was the government's offer, how much would that raise revenue? I expect the Council of State to also base previous comments and leads from this room – so how much would 410 million. in raising the income of the farmers?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1044	While a person was able to keep the market situation roughly as he is, it would raise revenue by 410 million. kr. That goes to the point. But beyond that, if the better market balance were to be achieved, agriculture would be able to raise up to 350 million. Add kr. So if one had done that, we're talking about significantly higher amounts. This has been completely clear from the state's position all along. One has received an offer that we initially put on the table, which made it possible with a certain increase in income, but which would mean that agriculture would have to take responsibility for overproduction in the event of an equal level of income development that other groups would have to have, as a percentage. From time to time, it appears here that it is known what the income balance of the wage groups will be next year. It's what's not known to negotiate yet, so in that case it's an estimate at best.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1049	I would like to remind the Council of State that it is not just about the agricultural negotiations he is going to hold, he is going to take care of the Stortinget, and it should be occupied by the Council of State, because it is said that today we are going to adopt the agricultural settlement of the year, despite the fact that the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen has created a little insecurity around it. That's why Stortinget hastens to know, what is it that we're adopting today? Is it, as Pál Farstad says, full negotiations with 625 as a bottom plank where one can increase budget resources up to 770, 790, 890 million. Do you really want to delete this item? Or are there distribution negotiations with a framework of 625 million. Do you really want to delete this item? Or is it full, open negotiations that could mean that one can come up with numbers both higher and lower than 625?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1056	What I want to present to agriculture is an offer in line with the comment of the Left. It indicates a formal framework of 625 million. And then one says that an additional one can distribute $130 million. kr from the assets of the LUF. It's obvious. In addition to that, the note from the Left refers to some political leaders, which I naturally want to take into account in the supply of agriculture. That's clear. But when it comes to detailed questions about how the further negotiations go: When Stortinget asks the state to resume negotiations – that is the decision the Stortinget is going to make today – I think they must have respect at the same time for it to actually see the Council of State in a position where he is going to go into a negotiation process, based on the fact that the majority of people ask for it. Then one is required to have respect for that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1063	I just want to make sure that we have the same understanding, the Council of State and my party. As the representative of Farstad also said, what is for distribution is 625 million. NOK plus 130 million. kr, we're clear on that, 755 million. kr – against that which is for distribution from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, with more than 745 million. kr. I want to get an answer to that, but I also want a reflection on something I am very critical of. I am critical of the fact that a lot is being taken out, a high target price estimate, also in the government's proposal, which is being filled in with a new 45 million. kr. I don't know if the council thinks that 150 million. kr is too much, but what could be 195 million? kr in increased target prices indicate future impacts, including in the case of thoughtful overproduction, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1070	If one achieves the target price, it results in the highest growth in income based on price withdrawals for those who produce the most. But there is no doubt that there would be a whole new practice if one now began to take out more in the target price than the farmers' organizations, the members responsible for overproduction, actually demand. I thought it would be alarming, and I am therefore pleased that the Stortinge seems to follow the government's proposal for a target pricer. It's in what we define as the outer edge of what was responsible for taking out at the target price this year. We went there because agriculture demanded it. But we're quite a few on the frame, we're quite a few on the device. I am very pleased that the Left confirms that the channeling policy is so clear. One will have a formal framework of 625 million. kr, which both Labour Party representatives have within them, and then an additional 130 million could be distributed. kr. So it's going to give us a total distribution of 755 million. NOK 625 million. kr of this is the formal framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1077	If we put all the theatrical facts aside, there's a pretty critical situation we're currently facing in many ways for a lot of people out there, and it's with one voice overweight that this is going to be settled in Stortinget. There is hardly any possible plurality that can be created, and that makes it so extremely important for the Council of State to say. And so I hope he can answer it very clearly and clearly, without much about and but, so this will be clear to all of us. And this is whether the State Council can confirm the bottom plank of Farstad and tell us others at Stortinget: When will the agricultural settlement 2017 be dealt with by Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1082	The last thing I don't decide. I can decide what time they're sending it to the Storting, but the time they're going to deal with it, the Storing is going to set its own plan. But I have understood the signal from the Left, recently confirmed by the representative André Skkelstad. It's going to be a formal frame, the left base of which is $625 million. kr. More than 130 million. kr from the assets of the LUF may be distributed. If you're busy with mismanagement for the producers, it might be time for the opposition to actually listen to what the majority says, instead of spreading undue uncertainty about what the Storting decides today. I say I want to base the left's comment. It is clear and clear both on a formal framework and on additional means of distribution. So if you're busy with your producers' woe and well in this, it's time to stop the political game.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1090	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1095	For approx. Two months ago, we adopted a new agricultural report, which provided clear guidance on how to develop agricultural policy further. In the debate at that time, both I and many others were very clear that these were the leadings that we expected the Minister to take with him in the further agricultural negotiations. It is always tricked by a minister to listen to the Stortinget. That's not what the minister has chosen to do, and that's why we've been caught in this difficult and unbridled situation. It is not useful to believe that one can continue the agricultural policy of the Progress Party and choose not to listen to the leaders of the Stortinge, and then try to hide behind the negotiating institute, an institute which the Progress Party itself opposes. Then it ends up as it does, and then the minister has to take that responsibility. Now the representative Knut Storberget has explained well the position of the Labour Party in the matter. However, I would like to state that I am very pleased that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the SV have gathered on a common proposal, which is based on the leadership that was laid down when we dealt with the agricultural notification. At the same time, I would also like to express a great disappointment at the Left, who chose to withdraw from these negotiations – for District-Left it must have been a great downturn. And as we've seen in the media, agriculture is failing. During the annual meeting of the agricultural teams in Agder, the candidate of the Left was very clear that in this case the Agder farmer could rely on the Left. I'm going to use the rest of my post to say something about, talk a little about, district and structure and the efforts on small and medium-sized applications. I record that the Right and Advance Party in the Agriculture Communication said that agricultural policy is not part of district policy, a view such as the Workers' Party and, fortunately, not – the Stortinget far from parts. In order to achieve our objectives of increased food production based on Norwegian resources and agriculture across the country, it is important to reduce the income gap, but it is also important to stop the policy that this government has pursued in order to bring about major structural changes. In our arrangement, which we have with the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the SV, we have made clear priorities for a different direction. We have seen that the government's proposal for the conversion of grazing subsidies leads to a very large impact between different uses in the districts, which creates too little predictability. In addition, it could contribute to re-growth. That is why we have introduced a reversal of the government's conversion of the grazing premium and said that set-aside should be strengthened, in line with the message. We have a strengthening of the area grant in Zones 5-7, a strong increase in the operating grant to dairy cows and suckler cows and an increase in the district grant for meat. We increase the animal subsidy for small and medium-sized sheep farming, increase the subsidy for veterinary travel, increase the subsidy for welfare schemes and, as one was in this case, increase to NOK 2 000 per dean for drainage. We will prioritise higher 15-30-hectare fertilisation within the IBU scheme and believe that aid should be granted without requiring an increase in production and that the aid intensity must be increased specifically for this group, as the investment costs for this group are higher per animal. We will not allow Troms and Finnmark to enter the store. When we look at how this turns out in relation to the reference farms, our proposal comes out very well with regard to the government and gives a significant boost to agriculture throughout the country. Districts like Agder – where I come from – the West and North Norway would be pleased with our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1118	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1123	It is a rather special situation to be in, that we now have to deal with the agricultural agreement, and that the Storting proposes changes in what has come from the government. That's not common. We in the Workers' Party are very concerned about the negotiating institute and the system we have for agricultural negotiations in Norway. It has served agriculture well, it has served society well, and it has greatly contributed to the fact that Norway is a society that stands out in many ways. One of them is that we have good housing and good activity all over the country. Agriculture is important in that respect. It is true that the usual thing is that if it is broken, it is the state's offer that is adopted in Stortinget. But that must not be so, because it is based on a premise that the government is actually in line with what the Great Britain has adopted in terms of agricultural policy. That is the challenge in the situation we are today, that we discussed the agricultural notification here in this Chamber a short time ago, and the Council of State at point after point did not get the bulk of the development he wanted, but nevertheless made an offer in the negotiations that does not comply with the Storting's will. Then the Storting has no choice but to repeat what is Storting's will. That's what's special about the situation we're now in. I am very pleased that – yes, what will it be like – the largest minority, i.e. the Committee’s position, are caring for well-known sizes such as distribution policy, district policy and channelling policy in a good way, in line with what the Agriculture Communication said, but not in line with what the Council of State has presented. This means that agricultural policy in Norway is special, and it has contributed positively to the special nature of Norway. For us in Westfold, agricultural policy means a great deal to agriculture, including forestry, but not least as a basis for processing. Now that we have a government council that has at least a party program that says that one really is skeptical of the whole agricultural agreement system, and that is sceptical about or against having customs protection, which is a prerequisite for industrial policy and the many thousands of jobs in, for example. Westfold, yes, we won't get a new and correct direction until we get a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1134	The previous speaker suggested that there was a special situation. I have to say that it is quite special when saying that an aggregate increase aims to reduce the income gap, that someone should well interpret it as the income gap is going to close – and not enough with it, it should also close quite quickly. There is no doubt that the Right wants to reduce the income gap, but we do not have the right to hold it overnight and in the short term. But we want to help reduce it. We note, both in the debate here today and in other debates, that one is pursuing some form of overcrowding policy in several sectors. This applies not only to agricultural policy, to the liabilities of the instrument, to other support schemes and not least to trade. I must say that the sense of responsibility we experienced during Stoltenberg's time in the Labour Party, it is in a way definitely abandoned in the Labour Party as we hear them in the debate here today and in other matters. So at the rate that the Workers' Party adds when it has to close the income gap, it's as much as 3 billion. We need to increase the framework in the years that come — perhaps in a few years and within the next period — without one being willing to assume that one will look at other parts of the objective of agricultural policy and take over the market opportunities offered by the market. This is a new policy The Labour Party has come along, which is, in fact, in stark contrast to the agricultural policy pursued by the Labour Party over several decades. The policy that this government has pursued has shown that it is working in practice. Production is increasing, the translation of local food is increasing, the reduction in the number of use flats out, and in my part of the country, in the West, we have a high level of investment. According to the 2015 NIBIO operational review, net investment was highest in the West. This shows that they also believe in agricultural policy in the West. Productivity is increasing, and farmers are taking more advantage of the market. All in all, I believe that agricultural policy is on the right track throughout the country. We're going to have a different usage structure, and we're going to have agriculture all over the country. So this government is doing a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1147	A conscious and active agricultural policy over several decades has laid the foundation for a diverse agricultural sector with a varied use structure in Norway. This structure is vulnerable to deregulation and centralising measures. The level of income of farmers and the agricultural settlement arrangements are crucial for the emergence of future agriculture in Norway. Most Norwegian farmers are at all quite vulnerable to more Progress Party and Right-wing policies – and now I can also include Left-wing policies. Small and medium-sized applications must now be lifted in terms of both the level of income and the ability to make the necessary investments. The income gap between the farmer and other comparable occupational groups needs to be narrowed – or reduced, so the right sees what I am talking about, because I will not leave any impression that you have the bucket pants on from that team in this context. Now we could get a good settlement here and now, with a complete, good package that would increase the purchasing power of the farmers, give better distribution and get a lot on the right track again – like for example. The government's cut for grazing subsidies. It looked promising to the farmers and district Norway, Norwegian food production and preparedness before the left suddenly took the run and jumped in the arms of the Progress Party and the Right. At a happy end, the representative called Ørsal Johansen the whole and praised the Left. I hope many farmers and others with a strong commitment to district work and food production in our common home country, Uppland, heard his contribution. One who has distributed so many billions to the wealthiest of the country without bluffing, has minimal credibility when he stands here, tight in his mask, and talks about how irresponsible it is to give farmers a little extra to close some of the income gap. Now everything is uncertain. But the alliance Left chose away for the benefit of the outer right, is a strong alliance. The Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV have together created a solid platform for the future, with an economic framework of 790 million. kr. Then we hope the election results will make it possible to implement this policy quickly, for the benefit of agriculture and the country as a whole. Many are impatient, and that is certainly not strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1160	Fortunately, there is a cross-political agreement that agriculture is an important industry in Norway and that we should have a living agriculture throughout the country. Finally, Norwegian agriculture is in good development after four years with the Right Party and the Advance Party in government. The total volume of production increases, the turnover of local food increases, the level of investment increases, and the income of farmers increases. Yes, politics works. Land throughout the country is to be used, and greater increases in income for small and medium-sized uses are to be facilitated. But I also have to attach some considerations to the outcrop. It is a very important measure both to exploit grazing resources and to preserve the cultural landscape. However, it is not as easy to implement in practice in all parts of the country, both because of the lack of access to outcrops and because of previous decisions taken in this room. For many years a majority on the Stortinget has said that it's okay to allow both yerv, gaupe, eagle and other predators to be in the same areas as the farmers use as the pasture for their sheep. This has led to a number of farmers out in the districts throwing in their towel and shutting down their operations. It is not right that farmers in the districts should have to find their animals both mutilated and damaged by the blessing of the Great One. My hope is that if the Storting really means serious about the desire for agriculture across the country and the growth of the outback, we will also review the predatory settlement. It has not worked, and the farmers are forced out as predators enter. We need more and more grazing priority areas, and there I think it has to be low threshold to take out the animals that are actually not going to be there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1169	With all the major challenges we're facing, whether it's climate or population or development of Norway or green change, it's important to have an agricultural policy that makes us use all the land in this country to produce food and use photosynthesis for the good for the country. It is important to have long-term stability, it is important to have good plant health, it is important to have good animal health and animal welfare in Norwegian agriculture. That is the basis of the agricultural policy of the Left. It is important to use all the soil for production because we know that the climate challenges will give us major challenges in having food production in places we currently have a lot of food production. Then it is important that we take responsibility in our agriculture and use all the land we can use for food production. We want different structures, we want recruiting, and we want a differentiated agricultural policy that makes us get invested around, whether it's big or small. We want a negotiating institute that actually works, a negotiating institute that we want to strengthen, not to weaken, as a minority in the hall does today. The debate on the income target is quite strange. It's pretty much only SV that's been stable, while others are wandering around a little bit. The Workers' Party has now tried to come back today to what they thought about the agricultural message. But the public debate has been strange. I'll mention some main points. We are sceptical about not listening to agriculture in terms of the target price of milk. We fear that increasing it will result in a great overproduction, and I think we should have such respect for agriculture that we should listen to them when that fear is there. I think we're going to have grain production on the best soil, and then we're going to use other parts of our agriculture for animal production and stimulating roughage. Then we can't move animal production down to the flatlands. Then we cannot weaken rural agriculture, which is the alternative to the Left's proposal today. I am very pleased that we have subsidiary support for what is the Left's proposal today. I think it is quite clear that the Council of State has understood what a mandate, what a mandate and what a majority he can receive from the subsidy. I know that the salaries of Norwegian farmers have been better as long as we have been involved in agricultural settlements, than when the Workers' Party was in government. We know that we have achieved a development in Norwegian agriculture that strengthens this. I notice that the Workers' Party is for the negotiating institute when they are in government and against when they are in opposition. It is a strange principle to fight for long-term agricultural policy. This has been a strange process, where we've been standing on what we've been thinking all along and being very predictable from space to space, while others have different policies when they're in position and when they're in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1188	There is no doubt that the Workers' Party will have strong agriculture throughout the country. I think it is quite alarming that the Left is unable to bring along the proposal from the Workers' Party, and is trying to explain it as something else. We need an agriculture with increased profitability and investment in both small and large farms. We're going to have a farm all over the country. Then the government's favoring the major uses must be stopped. For Northern and Northern Norway it will be dramatic for future agriculture. This year we see that the government was unable to negotiate an agricultural agreement. Nor was the government able to land the case with its cooperation parties. An overall opposition therefore tried to find a solution so that the country could today have an agricultural settlement. But the Left broke out, because they thought that the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and SV were too ambitious in their agricultural policy. There's no doubt about it. Knut Storberget says today that the left with this fails district agriculture. The size of the population has recently adopted the agricultural policy of the future, which appears to have reached quite a consensus on the objectives of: increasing food production on the basis of Norwegian resources. The main task of agriculture is to produce food and put it into use throughout the country. A wide variety of agriculture with good framework conditions, including for small and medium-sized ones, shall be stimulated. The size indicates that the level of income is consistently low in agriculture and that the income gap for other groups should be reduced. But here the Progress Party fails, the Right and now the Left. It is strange today to sit and listen to the Right interpretation of reducing the income gap. From a farmer in my home state, Nordland, who is listening to the debate, I received the following message today: When I am going to build a new feather with a personal debt of between 6 and 8 million. kr, it's not the percentage point that pays the instalments over the next 25 years, it's dollars. The revenue gap is reduced only if the distance measured in crowns is reduced. Income is the main means of achieving more of the objectives of agriculture, such as recruitment, investment and increased food production. Agriculture presented this year a requirement in the agricultural negotiations based on this communication. It should not be surprising that they broke the negotiations when you saw the offer that came from the government. The government’s offer involved major redistribution between producers, where individual practitioners would lose large sums. There is no investment in agriculture. No, a good start is to implement the policy adopted by the Stortinget in dealing with the agricultural notification. If you look at the policy pursued in the Chamber today, you will at least see which party you are going to vote on for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1205	When the agricultural message was processed in Stortinget just a short time ago, we were many friends of Norwegian agriculture and food production who were happy and satisfied. So now we see that we might have enjoyed ourselves a little too soon. It's a shame that the consensus on key principles that was there in April is not followed up by a majority here today. Then we've seen in the last few days that it's speculated in important agricultural media about what's the reason for that, and what agreements have been made. As a representative of Hedmark, I hope there is no team in it. The Labour Party is faced with what we have said and done in the past: we are following up what we are going for here today. After all, agriculture and farming are not an isolated issue about the income of individual farmers. It's about securing a value chain that gives us food, contributes to our self-sufficiency, and not least creates jobs across the country. Only in Hedmark provides agricultural and agro-industry basis for 13 000 jobs, an annual value creation of 5.7 billion. kr. The whole 15 pst. of employment and 9 pst. the value creation in the county is agricultural. The agricultural value chains are crucial for employment, value creation, housing, and thus for the well-being of Hedmark and many other countries throughout the country. But the number of use and farmers goes down. We know how this whole value chain connects. It threatens employment in Hedmark and in the rest of the country. The scheme on which the Workers' Party is involved today addresses and meets that challenge in a good and offensive way. We set up a framework that actually reduces the pay gap between farmers and other income groups. It makes it more attractive both to stay in agriculture and not least to settle in agriculture. It ensures jobs, and it ensures the basis for industry and employment across the country. The objective of an increase in the framework is to ensure chronically equal development between agriculture and other groups, as the income target indicates. In addition, it ensures changes in the distribution in order to obtain a clearer rural profile as well as a targeted strengthening of small and medium-sized applications. It is important that those changes are implemented in a way that ensures predictability for farmers of all types of production and size. It ensures settlement, living communities and a varied usage structure, and it ensures a very central value of our country, really, that we can live and work across the country. Our approach will create and secure jobs and employment in primary agriculture, and we know how important it is for the rest of the value chain and industry – for the countryside, cities and peoples of Hedland, Oppland, Trondelag, Rogaland and all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1214	About a 625 million frame. kr. will increase the revenue gap, not reduce it, as Stortinget has said, I am pleased that we have been told that it will be negotiated on a 625 million frame. kr. It means, in practice, that the Stortinget has seen the Council of State under administration, that we have bound him to a given amount. Now is the distribution to be negotiated. Then the Left's representative, André N. Skelstad, says that in addition, there's an air traffic controller. Yes, we do too, but we wouldn't dare to sell the money two and three times, as the Left does in this game. It's in our supply, but we're not trying to market it as anything more than what it is – distribution of funds. Something is already in the frame, which is what's left of it, and something is the result of a reduced price for power feed. Otherwise I'm a little uncertain about the number of 130 million. kr, with which the left operates, is correct. Then it has happened openly that the Left's representative in the negotiating room, before they broke, has gone out and misinformed their party colleagues. Because when you say we want to weaken the channelling policy, it's not going to happen. When one says that one does not want to give priority to rural agriculture, it does not. I would like that error information to be kept to the left too well. For reality, if one takes a calculator example within a frame of 790 million. kr, we can have a dairy in Møre and Romesdal of 15 dairy cows, and we will increase the operating profit by approximately NOK 30000. A dairy farm in Eastfold or Akershus with 70 dairy cows will be increased by NOK 17 000. In addition, the use in More and Romesdal will benefit from increased district allowances, increased land use, and one will benefit from the increase in cargo arrangements. So to say that what our party has put forward is weakening the district profile, weakening the channelling policy, is not at all the basis for it. So I think I'm going to have to use the debate now to clear up some things from the left, because one has put a lead on gravitational skills. When it comes to pasturage, the left has been hard to express. My question is, is the order to increase this so-called factor on the inward leg, or is the Left concerned about the redistribution effect of a cutting out the general gravitational charge altogether? That's what I think Left should clarify. In addition, reference is made to the agricultural message on the view of the Left on the target price. For me, it is not very easy to find out – to read – what is Left's view of the target price, and I ask that the party also clarify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1226	Less than a month ago, the Storting turned upside down on the agricultural message of the Right-Fremskritsparte-regieringen. The majority of the population disagreed with the idea that the supporting principle for Norwegian agriculture should be so-called cost-effective food production. The majority, of whom the Workers' Party was then part, would have increased Norwegian food production on the basis of Norwegian resources. Farm production must reflect this. But that does not mean the Right Party and the Advance Party. Then one might wonder whether the government's proposal for agricultural settlement, which is going to be voted down, is probably an example of bad political craftsmanship, or a new example of a lack of will. The Right Party and the Advance Party in the Government have demonstrated clearly enough where their priorities lie, and it is not in agriculture. It's a shame the left doesn't stand out. Norwegian farmers obviously need a new majority and a new government. We don't have to go further than to Buskerud to get it. In fact, Busherud is a small Norway in miniature, including in agriculture. Busherud's farmers have given clear feedback that the setting from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV is what farmers prefer. The farmers and small farmers and the farmers in Buskerud are quite clear that their main priority is to close the income gap between agriculture and other groups in society. In this year’s settlement, both organisations will prioritise small and medium-sized applications. They are very disappointed that the majority of the Storting does not support it. Agriculture in Buskerud is very complex, from large farms in the south to steep mountain farms in the north. We're big on fruit and green. We have small and medium-sized sheep farming, goats, dairy cows and we're growing up on beef. Pasturage is one of the country’s best, most climate-friendly resources, which should be exploited better, but the bulk of population has undergone several unfortunate changes in area grants and grazing schemes during this period. In addition, agriculture in Buskerud has Norway's highest share of additional industries, mainly related to tourism and local food. In Buskerud there are now several hundred small and large producers of local food, who can create new jobs, but it is crucial then that they should dry up their bets, that there is a good economy in traditional agriculture. If Norwegian food production is to be increased, as Stortinget will, we must take care of the cultivated land, not let the soils grow again. If we're going to make it, we're going to have to keep going for those who don't have the ability to scale. The combination farmer is important for Buskerud – what would Numedal and Hallingdal have been without? The farmers in Buskerud agree with Knut Storberget: Our proposal for agricultural settlement together with the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV is an arrangement for the future. It's not the lines from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1239	Agriculture and the food industry represent many jobs in Norway and many important areas of competence in both industry itself and in other activities. In Finnmark we now see that there are many young farmers who are willing to invest heavily. First, they deserve a government that takes them seriously and is predictable. An agricultural settlement with the Progress Party and the Left in the central roles has, to put it mildly, not been very successful in this way, and a minimum requirement for any government is that the leaders of the Stortinge have been taken into account in negotiations. Today's government hasn't done that. Secondly, young offensive farmers deserve a national policy that sees the prospects of agriculture and facilitates the use of opportunities throughout the country. In Finnmark, there is a need for about 500 new dairy cows in order to be able to supply Tines kesam production in Tana with enough milk and raw materials, but there must be investment in several new operating buildings and also in many new, larger operating buildings. The government does not exactly facilitate it when they want to introduce a ceiling on aid for investment in Troms and Finnmark. And it's a paradox that when the market demands more milk from Finnmark and requires more new buildings and more farmers to meet that requirement, the government will not facilitate it. A new direction is needed here, and a policy is needed which says no to impose a ceiling on investment in Troms and Finnmark, as construction costs are higher there than in the rest of the country, and secondly there is a need to increase the subsidy for Arctic agriculture through the Agricultural Development Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1248	I have some comments. When the representative Geir Pollestad, who is head of the Business Committee, makes this debate a game of how much I am under administration or one, I only have the following message: I am Minister of Agriculture of Norway. I do so in large numbers, and I intend to do so in a way that makes Norwegian agriculture feel that they are in a real negotiating position. Games may drive the Center game, but I'm not going to throw myself at it. Per Olaf Lundtägen uses to call for an honest debate in this big debate. I hope we get to the right of the Center Party, for example. refer to the price of power-feed, in the post he sent later. The representative Odd Omland said something there is reason to ask questions about, in his post, that the way their money usage turns on the reference use, he was quite sure that this was good. We haven't calculated the reference use estimate of that distribution. The only other person who could have done so is the other party to the agricultural agreement negotiations. There's only two who can calculate it on a mission. That means, if you're going to assume that it's done, that the people who today say that they're hot defenders of the negotiating institute, they let one party into the back room and make calculations separately. That's what I'm recording. One is of course in its full right to it, but I think it's strange that one then can hover over the other party, for example. Left, its position, when it concerns the negotiating institute. It doesn't make sense for me, it does. To all those who try to make this a game that our goal is to undermine the contract institute: we have a political agreement with the Christian People's Party and with the Left that there is a reason. It has been my job in the years I have been responsible for Norwegian agriculture, and it will do so as long as it is the government's position. So that too, the Storting can take for granted. This means that we are now in a situation where the state is going to have another conversation with agriculture to land an agricultural settlement for next year. The conversations will be characterized by an understanding of what this plural now says, a real desire to land an agreement between the parties based on the leadership of the Left. If we need foresight for the economic operators, at least at the tame of the debate, I urge the opposition party to start to actually show that they're busy with things other than political games.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1261	The left and I fight the districts case. For Uppland, where agriculture contributes a lot of employment and as a supplier to the important food industry, there are in particular three issues I have fought for and stood for for for four years. It's the full-time farmer, it's the grain price, and there's zero VAT on fruit and green. I have not won the last case yet, but for the full-time farmer and for the grain price it goes up. The main industries of the future for public health and green shifts cannot be best served with the greatest possible full-time farmers. The grain price must be good enough for the farmers around Mjösa to maintain grain production and not switch to grass and milk production, as we heard in the article from the Christian People's Party. It's a desire to switch in. Then we set aside our valleys for their most important contribution; livestock and grass production. We are witnessing today to a responsible Left who is on the line with a future. We're plotting new land, and we're protecting food soils. And it is we who protect the negotiating institute instead of making Stortinget a auction venue for target prices beyond what the trade unions themselves have demanded in the settlement. The Labour Party has historically been responsible and stimulating the transition over time into agricultural policy. Gunhild The eye got the urias post in two rounds in Gro Harlem Brundtland's governments at the end of the 1980s and early 1990s based on a fiscal policy governed by Sigbjørn Johnsen and Jens Stoltenberg. In the 2000s it was relatively quiet from the Labour Party on agricultural policy. The Workers' Party has now left responsibility to the industrialists and to the Centre without connecting with the fiscal politicians, even the rapporteurs in the valleys, because they do not want to get rid of the livestock and become scenes for tourists. In the working party framework of 790 million. NOK 45 million is included. kr at increased target prices. So it's higher target prices than agriculture itself and the state wants. It has hardly happened before the Storting should be such a type of auctioning venue for increased target prices, and that will lead to even more overproduction of a milk we have too much of already. I've previously criticized the Christian People's Party, but when we talk about markets, it's a little noticeable that it's the Socialist Left Party of all who have the greatest faith in the market, and even will adopt it here in the Storting. It's going to be more like a fungus from an old plan socialism, you ask me. The big environmental question I'm asking myself is: Where will SV make of the spilled milk? But what surprises me most in this debate is how little it is about future, about structure and about recruitment. The future is at full speed into Norwegian agriculture. Milk robotics, as I have said before in the debate, stands for 30 p.m. of the milk we drink. The future is not coming to an end. The question of many dairy farmers across my district, up in the valleys, with 15 to 20 cows, is whether and when to participate in the robot revolution. We cannot leave development and the future to those who have the best and most fertile soil and with the shortest distance to the markets. That's one of the big issues in today's debate. The first foldable milkrobots are in place in Norway. They can be wrapped in a container and can be included in the chairs in the summer. Within today's volumes of milk production, how should we facilitate the development of such types of poultry and take it into account for the future? This is where the Christian People's Party is lured into the fence with the Center Party and the Workers' Party. The representative of Pollestad was involved in employment. Yes, in parts of Uppland, agriculture represents considerable employment, but at the same time, the unemployment rate in Uppland is 1.5 pst. There are not many hands available to milk cows. We need to use the new technology to help agriculture share in the growth that we are facing, and the opportunities that we have. When less use has been used in the last four years and agricultural investment has grown significantly, it is well because it is optimistic and economical. We are betting on the full-time farmer and agriculture throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1284	There have been many good posts with very good criticism of this government – good and good, it can well be discussed. But I have to say I hung myself again, in a new debate, up in the representative of Omland, who will stop the government's policy and stop the developments we have in Norwegian agriculture. Norwegian agriculture is in good development for the fourth consecutive year of this government, and total output is increasing. So the representative of Omland will stop that. Turnover of local food has increased by 8 p.m., almost 9 p.m., from October 2015 to October 2016. This is what the representative of Omland will stop. The reduction in the number of areas used now appears in relation to the previous government. It wants Omland to stop, so he wants more use to be put down. The level of investment is high. It will stop Omland; he will have it to be low in agriculture. The number of bankruptcies is very low. The representative of Omland thinks it's too bad, so he'll stop it. He wants more bankruptcy in Norwegian agriculture. That's how I can keep going. That's not how we want Norwegian agriculture. Norwegian agriculture has been in an enormously good development. We are very pleased that the Norwegian farmer has increased his income considerably. We are very pleased that we are now self-sufficient in sheep, that other productions are increasing, that we see that labour productivity in Norwegian agriculture is on the rise, and that is the farmers' profit. But I expect Omland to be able to do something about it as well, as he likes to. There has been talk about the degree of self-sufficiency in this room, and there is something that Omland will stop too, because they managed very well when they last sat with government power. Then the self-sufficiency rate went down from 53 to 47 pst. Now we've managed to get it back up to 50 pst. I'm glad that Omland really has ambitions to get something for Norwegian agriculture. So finally, it was interesting to listen to the representative Helga Pedersen, who wants many, many more cows in Finnmark to produce much, much more milk, when we are on the verge of overproduction of milk. I think the representative Helga Pedersen gets a little involved in the situation in Norwegian agriculture before she talks about such measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1297	There has been an interesting debate, where the opposition has tried to create as much uncertainty as possible about the further process in the case, and about income targets and production targets. The agricultural notification has also been referred to several times and the agreement on both income targets and production targets. We agreed that the income target was to reduce the difference based on market balance, we agreed that the production target is more food on Norwegian resources. In this case, however, all parties, except the Right Party and the Advance Party, write in a note that the aim is to ‘ensure chronically equal development between agriculture and other groups’, without having voted in favour of this in the Agriculture Communication and also did not put forward any proposal on this in this Chamber. This is double communication and creates the impression of something that actually doesn't have root in reality. I don't know what is the income target of the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and SV, when it now sounds as if they have gone away from what we agreed on in the agricultural message. Finally, as the rapporteur, I would like to thank you for the debate and at the same time reassure both the opposition and the farmers that the Right has decided in their next major programme that we will maintain the contractual institute, the channelling policy, we will have small and large use throughout the country, and we recognise that agriculture is important both for jobs, for housing, for cultural landscapes and other things. So finally a comment to the representative Kjell-Idar Juvik's posts, who wonders if the Right Party and the Advance Party believe that the farmers pay their bills by percentages. No, we're assuming that they pay their bills with the heads that they actually have in terms of the SSB's numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1306	It's been a troubled spring for the farmers. After the majority of the population had agreed on a big message, they were probably proud that the same majority would stand firm on the policy they agreed on there, and that even when they entered the agricultural negotiations, it would lead the government. But it wasn't like that. The government negotiated a scheme that was not in line with the consensus of the Stortinget, and then it is the responsibility of the Stortinget – I have said that many times from this pulpit – if we want to maintain a Norwegian agriculture in line with the objectives we have set, to ensure that the government negotiates conciliation and agreements with the agricultural organizations that are in line with it, and they do not, the Stortinget must intervene and put the cabinet in place. I'm very disappointed in the Left that broke out of the consensus that would have made it possible now to get this in place. That's when you protect the contract institute. There's been a lot of talk about the incomes of the farmers here lately, whether there's going to be dollars or percentages. Yesterday we discussed it for our own part, and I notice that maybe there's a little bit more ability to see the need for it in the case of farmers than in the case of our own salary increases, but I'm going to leave it. I'm going to go to the numbers' speech, because of the increase that agriculture has received, after the figures I've been informed, the interest rate decline alone amounts to NOK 21 500 per year. Interest has fallen, corresponding to an increase in income of NOK 21 500. The market balance for pigs amounts to approximately NOK 8 000 per year, and when they operate well, Tine has paid for NOK 11 000 per year – when you look at all this together – and in addition, this government has been incredibly lucky, I think everyone agrees that it has also been recorded. So most of this is not something that the government or the majority can boast of. So finally, with investments in large and small. Yes, we see that all over the world, you think you should reduce the need for state aid in food production by creating large units. You don't. You just make them even more dependent on taking up large loans, and they become even more dependent on getting state transfers. We can see that from the agricultural statements now, for every penny that the big ones have received, is taken from the small ones, and the big ones are becoming more and more dependent on more and more subsidies because they have to invest and borrow more and more. It's not sustainable. It has not been sustainable in other countries, nor will it be in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1315	Many people have said that we are in a special situation. Yes, we are. A lot of people are shooting at the Left. We can take that. That other parties are more concerned with the Left than with their own policies, may become up to them. What is worse is that there is an unnecessary uncertainty about the process. It seems to be a point to make fun of it. I think that's more disappointing. I now think it is quite well explained how this should be carried on, not least from the Council of State. Then there will be – and I just have to spend some time on – shooting from a part, and from the Workers' Party in particular, that the Left jumps in the arms of the Advance Party and the Right. What's happened here is that we're not satisfied with what came from the government, and then we weren't satisfied with where it was in the discussions we had with the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. It has to be fair that you choose to say that this is not going to be agreed on, so we have to try to find our own way. That's what we've done, and that's what we've been trying to do to the best of our ability. Then to the representative Pollestad. I want to focus on the target price. The left is part of the national and agricultural system with an increase in the target price of 150 million. kr. We've explained that in the past. We have no particular objections to that either, although I agree with the Council of State's assessment that this is at the limit of what is possible. When the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the SV choose to increase the target prices beyond these 150 million. kr, it's problematic for the Left. It was not heavy inside the left when we discussed it internally in the group in the conversations that were held. Then there was more frame that was the matter. I hope that at least I have responded to some of what I have been challenged by the debate here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1326	What surprises me most in this year's agricultural settlement is that we were going to have another fight over the channelling policy of the 1950s. Or to say it like this, it disappoints me. I will not hide that I have also been critical – so I also need to have a line exchange with the Council of State – to take out so much in the target price. I respect that this was what the trade unions and organizations wanted, but I personally believe that it might be towing it far enough. I am particularly critical when I see that some people choose to lead on even more, for a significantly higher target price, which is then also increased in the proposals of the Centre Party and the Labour Party, may help to lead to an overproduction that in turn imposes even more costs on agriculture. There is also little doubt that an increase in price would be in favour of the largest producers, which, unfortunately, could result in a centralisation of agriculture, as well as any overproduction that would also affect agriculture — and most least because one has to cover it within its own framework. What surprises me is the difference – by wanting a new rematch to strengthen the best zones, i.e. flat farming in the East versus the fjords and mountains, which have been the priority of the Left for a long time. If such a policy of channelling is reversed, the most valuable economic output will be shifted more from District Norway to central struts, even though the representative Pollestad is trying as hard as he can to say anything else. This is the case, and it turns out over time. It's not only surprising, but I'm also very impressed when the Christian People's Party's representative so honestly and clearly says that's exactly what she wants to do. One will give priority to grass production and milk production in Eastfold. Did the representative Pollestad sleep an hour? Or is this an unconscious moment? It can't be. Because this is the answer, and then there's no doubt that yes, we have about the same distribution. I think we need to have a real entrance -- I really came across Pollestad's posts -- where is the coverage for the six ears? Where's the cover? I'm asking about it. Pollestad has free speaking time and can explain it to me during one or two or three articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1339	There are many who are engaged in the question of what you want with agriculture, because this is quite important for what the country looks like, and what is the security of people. The agricultural policy debate is marked by unclear words and decisions. It is marked to a large extent by ambiguity. There are imprecise wordings, there are imprecise terms, there are interpretations, and now one has another step forward with that treatment, if this results, so that one is to send the case back to the parties without any decision stating what the parties are to negotiate with. The responsibility for it lies, of course, on the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The Progress Party has said that the Left has turned for 12 hours that it is a majority of the government's policy. I understand the statements that the government gets a majority for the course in its policy, as the course was included in the document written in 2014 by the Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. It's the course that's fixed. It is said here that if the Storting interferes with it, the contract institution may be under pressure. The contract institute is from 1950, and it says that one should have negotiations between the two trade unions of agriculture and the state, and it says in the NOU that I have referred to, that it is to be seen as a preparation for the treatment of the Storting. What is the problem is that the negotiations should take place on the basis of the will of the Grand Duchy last year. When that will is unclear, there is a gap between what the parties stand for. This year, there's more than a billion dollars. kr. It should be a cross of thought for this whole hall that we continue with a situation where agriculture interprets the Storting like that, while the government interprets it like that. It cannot continue. It has to be cleaned up here. I would like to ask that, after the election, the Workers' Party and the Centre go together to define the agricultural policy of the future so clearly that we get away from this. For this creates a situation where there will be discussions about the whole system, while there will be a confusion among most people. It's not worth the Big Thing. Unfortunately, this has been a development over a long period of time, and some people think they deserve it to be like this. Those who have power in society and in agricultural policy, those who are satisfied with today's course, those who are satisfied with less agriculture throughout the country, those who are satisfied with food security going down, agricultural land going down, and grazing. We need an open, honest debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1351	It has been interesting to follow this debate. The debate has focused to a large extent on further negotiations and the income target in agriculture. With regard to further negotiations on agricultural settlement, I have full confidence that the Council of State is doing this in a very good way. I note that the opposition's proposals could destroy the good development that has been in agriculture for the past four years. The reason — or at least one of the reasons — for improving agriculture is that farmers are now basing their production on the needs of the market. The minority proposals in this case could lead farmers to switch over to producing where the subsidies are greater, and not according to market needs. This is no good to anyone. I would rather have facts about the development of agriculture, and I would ask the representative Lundtigen to listen carefully. With this government increased production volume for the fourth consecutive year. The local food sales increased by 8.8 pst. from October 2015 to October 2016. So the growth is 2.5 times higher than in the rest of the groceries market. And in violation of the previous scare-mongering propaganda, which meant that with the Progress Party in government, agriculture would be shattered: the results show the exact opposite. In fact, more use was put down in the last four years with the representative Lundtägen's party in government. Then it was put down approx. 1 000 use per year. With the Progress Party in government, the figure is about 800. The level of investment is staggeringly high in agriculture and, according to NIBIO studies for 2015, net investment was highest in the West. This shows that there is great optimism in the sector. For the first time in 10 years, cereal production is increasing. During the previous government there was a shortage of sheep and lamb, and in particular I remember personally that beyond Christmas we were always excited about whether we were able to import enough sheep and lamb. Under this government – and I hope again the representative Lundtigen listens well after – there are actually market coverage and trends in profit. The minority will pursue a policy that will reverse this trend. Agriculture has had a history of income development. Under this government, agriculture will have approx. twice as large as other groups. The prognosis is 20.8 pst., versus 10.4 pst. For agriculture, the proposal is then included in the proposition but not better market balance in 2018. The growth in income is also expected to be larger than for other groups, measured in dollars. In conclusion, I would like to thank – and commend – the Left for taking responsibility for ensuring that we get a settlement that ensures the good development of agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1366	It looks like the treatment of the two matters is going very well, so I want to make a comment on the first matter we're discussing, namely agricultural policy. This debate gives me the ultimate opportunity to use the good words of Mr. Hambro that each representative is free to express the confusion that prevails in his head. For the claims made by the Left and the representative, Mr Skelstad, when it comes to the Central Party's view on the regional profile and on the channelling policy, there is no real root in the proposal we have made. But what's good, and that's clear in the discussion today, is that it should negotiate, the frame should be 625 million. kr. It's a lower level than we wanted it to be, but it's good that there's clarity in it. But it's at some point where the left has not really figured out what they mean. I did not ask for the target price for pigs; I asked for the proposal to convert from a target price model to a volume model, a grip that only has one purpose, to damage agriculture. Does the Left support this, or does one think that there is room in the WTO to wait for a person to do so? The second question that we haven't been told is the Left's view on pasturage. There's been a discussion there. The left has put a guide on the inline leg. One has not put a lead on the big repriority that gives dramatic results for many of the farmers. Is it so that a person just wants to strengthen an inner space something, or does he want to keep the general gravitational space and make a smaller redistribution than what you add? I am pleased that there has come to an agreement during this process, between the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV – what we have written together about, what we have managed to negotiate and become a few about: a new spring, a new course, for Norwegian agricultural policy. This is important for the work to be done, and I think that this setting will also be applicable on later occasions. So I see that this case should not go back to Stortinget, that the next time we look at it, is in connection with the state budget 2018, all the time one not only asks the parties to negotiate, but also gives an authority to finalise the spring's agricultural settlement. So it's also clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1379	When the agricultural policy debate is marked by uncertainty, there will be a lack of predictability – there will be a lack of predictability for those working to get food from the ground to the table. Everyone's talking about more predictability. It's a cross of thought that those who talk so loud about it don't see it as their main task to clarify what they want with food production, and how food production is going to happen. The social mission of agricultural policy is sufficient, natural and safe food and an open landscape — natural and safe food in such quantities as to provide the necessary preparedness. It is usually based on what is produced by plants in Norway. A person is not prepared to produce plants abroad, import them and eat them. There is no better preparedness than an importer of the milk or meat. That's why the first one has to start with, defining what is meant by the level of preparedness and the degree of maritime supply. Here the rapporteur, from the Right, operates with a percentage of about 50. That's incorrect, because it's gross. One does not take into account what is imported by cereals. It's wrong, it's creating a wrong image. The real degree of maritime supply is about 40 p.p., while in a country that we compare in many ways with, namely Switzerland, it is 55 p.p. If it were to go from 40 p.m. in Norway. to 55 pst., there is a need for nearly two million deches of new soil and/or significant pastures. Then it must be worthwhile to operate this soil, then it must be worthwhile to have pastures – and then we will get into the cereal and power feed policy. One does not correct agricultural policy without understanding the cereal and feed policy, because it is through it a world-class plant. Forage is food that everyone can eat. The value of it also determines the value of grass. All livestock can eat power feed, and what pays best is done by the farmer. That's why the Central Party's opinion is that you have to have a feed price that makes you get an economy in grass production that makes it profitable. That's the nucleus of this. But my starting point is: honesty and transparency give predictability, so that everyone knows what to do with – and does not make mistakes, which are happening today, as a result of unclear decisions in the Stortinget. Now we don't even get a decision to give to the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1392	I think I want to start with a good Kvinesdal expression and say that I was ‘unkind’ when I heard the representative Ørsal Johansen’s distortion and black paint of the post that I had, and of the agricultural policy that the Workers’ Party stands for. I stand by every word I've said. It is important for a government council in a minority government to listen to the Storting. The size has provided clear guidance on what agricultural policy will be like in the years to come. What I stressed was that it was important to stop, was the great leadership in terms of the structural changes that this government has made. We are very concerned that we now need to invest in and prioritize agriculture across the country, in order to increase self-sufficiency. We need to invest in small and medium-sized applications. We must bet on the districts and give priority to them too – and not just continue with the enormous structural change and bet on just the major uses. It is to take agricultural policy in the wrong direction. I believe that it will be very clear what is the agricultural policy of the Workers' Party – through the comments and proposals in relation to agricultural production, where we have been involved in the priorities. With this, I hope that even though this debate has been very unbridled – it will be a more difficult situation to negotiate from – it can ultimately end well. But I'm skeptical about the debate. At least it hasn't created any more transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1401	I am pleased that the representative Odd Omland, who is to ensure that the negotiations are conducted, has more overview than the representative himself feels. That's probably a good reason why we should keep the political plurality we also have the coming years. But I want to start with – and it’s important that the Stortinget remembers this – giving the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen’s opinion that he is now clarifying the position of the Centre Party in the cereal and feed policy. That was commendable. But he should try to talk to the representative of Geir Pollestad from the same party the next time he's going to make the same clarifications, because the centre party is today agreeing to adopt a lower feed price with its proposal than its original offer. And then one would like to keep talking about the party being a little bit uncertain about what they're saying. From the Central Party, two representatives have taken the floor today, and they do not think the same in the cereal and feed policy, on which the representative Lundteigen points is absolutely essential for an open and honest debate in the field of agricultural policy. I'm glad that the representative Lundteg is as clear as he is. I also thought that was what the Stortinget meant when they gave up the agricultural message, and it has the minority of which the Center Party is a part, turned on to this treatment. I must also have a visit to the representative Karin Andersen, because it appeared when a hearing post was that it is a goal that a maximum part of the farmers' income development should come from the state, that it is a problem that we have had good help with interest rates, that it is a problem that we have had good weather, that it is a problem that we have expanded the grain area, that there is a problem that we have had good yields, or that Tine is going well. It's not a problem, it's a closure for Norwegian agriculture, and the Storting has never measured agricultural policy in how much money we spend on public budgets, we're measuring results. It shows that the SV that should have been isolated in agricultural policy – they have a completely alternative arrangement – is now being embraced by their old friends in the Centre Party and the Labour Party. It does not provide a precaution. In addition, we claim to take from the big ones and give to the small ones. In the contracts concluded last year, reference use 12, the third of the lowest, was as good as the third of the largest. This year's national supply has been strengthened, with higher income developments per year for the smallest milk production used than for the largest. It would be much easier for everyone if the Storting stuck to the suggestions they actually get presented, instead of some out-of-date speech points.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1410	No one in this room has talked about moving roughage production to the flatlands. The left has been afraid of it, but there is no one who has arranged for it. What we have spoken about, and what the Christian People's Party stands for, is that we should continue with the channelling policy that we have today. Because I agree with the heart of Trine Skei Grande, who says we're going to use all the space for food production. It is also true that there is some area in the grain regions that is not suitable for grain production. I also agree with the heart with the representative Trine Skei Grande on the second point, this by creating predictability. That was the word I said about the representative, Mr Farstad, that the Left stands for a predictable policy. But right now they've changed it. Then I have respect for the recordings that the trade unions give us. I have respect for them, but it may be important to listen to the most important recordings that the trade unions give us to this settlement. It's not the target price, but it's chronically equal to development. Christian People's Party fences about the negotiating institute. It cannot be that, when the government does not follow the will of the Storting through the offer, it is asked to abdicate the Stortinget – when it is not implemented by the policy adopted as an overall increase. For me, it's not about the negotiating institute, it's about adopting Storting's policy. But I'm very happy that the Right in this period has changed its program to say, as the representative Ingunn Foss said, that the Right is also for the negotiating institute in the programme for the next period. Pasture on the field is good. It says a whole committee a lot about, but we also say that we shouldn't take it from the field to strengthen the field. I have a little visit to the representative Ørsal Johansen, who says he is happy that the Prime Minister has finally engaged in predatory policy. Yes, that's good, but it would have been so much easier if today's government had followed up the decisions that the Stortinge made a year ago. We had not been in this situation, then the Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture had not had to travel to Hadeland yesterday by helicopter. Then you could spend time on other things – if the Storting decision had been followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1423	Predictability, says the representative Hemdal. Yes, it is also about predictability with channelling policies. I have to say that that's exactly what is one of the predictability when you think about district agriculture. Unfortunately, there is no Christian People's Party there in this matter, for this is and becomes unpredictable from the Christian People's Party. At the bottom of the debate, when we talk about predictability, as Per Olaf Lundtegen made a very good contribution, I am in no doubt about the representative Storberget said early in the debate – the 79 million frame. kr was applicable for 2018. Yes, it is, but it must also lead to predictability in a longer horizon. As I understood the representative of Storberget, they did not commit themselves in a longer horizon. Where, then, is predictability? We have not been as detailed in our order as the representative Pollestad and his company have been, because we believe and are strong followers of pasturage on both land and land. We have also suggested that there should be predictability in pig production. But this must also be stated in the negotiations. We don't want the detail here. If we had, we would have really weakened the negotiating institute. That's why I'm a bit in the living room when some people are so happy to detail this in this room. Otherwise, it was very clear from the representative Lundteg – I share many of the views he had in a good manner – about the cereal and feed policy. The same post kept Per Olaf Lundtägen to me when I went to an agrotechnic school around 1990. It was a glittering post, too. Although I don't necessarily agree with everything Per Olaf Lundtigen says, this is one of the things that makes it important to have a channelling policy, to produce grass on grass and grain on grain land. Unfortunately, his party does not follow up on this as of today. I should have liked that. I also share many of his views on food safety, but not least on predictability. There is no industry as long-term as Norwegian agriculture. That's absolutely correct. We would like to have it even clearer, and I think we could, because no matter what you say, there has never been such a strong focus on Norwegian agricultural policy as in these four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1434	There is a lot going on at Stortingen these days, both for representatives and for presidents, so I regret that I have to pay close attention to the proposals put forward by the Greens in this debate by the Greens. So, first of all, we are proposing a 900 million agricultural framework and instruments. kr. It is closest to what agriculture itself has demanded, but still significantly below. We propose instruments that go further in promoting the quality production and use of Norwegian resources and raw materials than the other batches, and we go further in promoting environmentally friendly, climate-friendly and ecological forms of operation than the other batches do. The Greens believe that it is good food policy and good business policy to invest enough to achieve this in practice. We believe that the path to an agriculture that uses Norwegian resources across the country, which provides better income for farmers, including farmers. is by producing and marketing the factor in which Norwegian agriculture can actually beat international competitors, namely quality. Therefore, in addition to the broad-based resolution framework and instruments, we are proposing measures that will specifically promote the quality of Norwegian food products and give better choice to consumers who want quality. Firstly, we are proposing a national labelling scheme on the antibiotic content of foodstuffs. Such a scheme will promote Norwegian antibiotic-based products thanks to good work across the board, and such a scheme will help to make it a competitive factor to overcome what is one of the most frightening problems of our time, namely increasing antibiotic resistance due to excessive antibiotic use. We note that the majority rather believes that this should be done at EU level. We take note of that, and therefore promote a proposal on this which is similar to the comment of the majority, and then we hope that the majority will vote for what they themselves say they mean. We also propose that the Nyt Norway labelling clarify minimum requirements for the use of Norwegian feed materials. The labelling of the day ensures it in a way that is far too weak. The Green Party does not have anything in principle against either imported food or imported feed, but we are in favour of agricultural policy primarily ensuring that we use the natural resources we have here in this country to produce high-quality food that Norwegian consumers can have the opportunity to choose and know that they choose. And we propose – finally – to phase out caged production against 2025, coupled with a support scheme for conversion. It is not a nirvana to be a hen in loose conduct, but there are better opportunities for a good hen life in accordance with the Animal Welfare Act to live in a well-smoked drift than in a cage where you never get to touch. Then I will address the suggestions we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1451	The representative Rasmus Hansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1458	The cereal and co-feed policy is essential for the profitability of plant production and therefore for the number of plants grown by the farmer. It is clear that this position must be linked to improved import protection, increased frameworks, i.e. target prices and appropriations. That's what, in sum, gives profitability. Then this money has to be distributed to support the social goal. Farmers are sea-going operators. They're doing the best they can. Farmers carry out the social mission as decided by the Stortinget. That is why we must have an open debate. I am pleased with several of the speeches, which now indicate that we might finally get an open debate. I appeal to the agricultural trade unions now to take the glove and take the open debate on what they want with their agriculture, and that not least consumers are engaged, for this is a consumer issue: what kind of food should we have, and what kind of food security is what we pay for?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1463	This has been a very strange debate for us who have followed the negotiations from start to finish. It's especially the Left's explanation today that is very different from what our explanation of their previous position has. To me, many of the arguments that come out are quite unethical. It's a tradition here in Stortinget that you don't say anything about the content of the negotiations you've had. But here one tries to pretend that one was something that was not in those negotiations. I guess it's not just SV that has a complete record of all the calls that were there. An example is the target price. There was a discussion about how much budget resources should be spent – how much on the target price. Can e.g. The representative of Skelstad guarantees that the position of the left now is one who has had the whole way in this process? Can he guarantee that? If a really is so busy with small and medium-sized uses in the Left, as one reads as one, why does not the creation of a new agricultural tool, which is an operational difficulty? Why has a non-signature signal signaled that a person supports it? Professional layers have just been lifted in order to make use of the hard-to-use areas in Norway. It is a tool that can really lift up mountain and rural farming in the West, in Northern Norway, etc. It's a tool that professionals think one doesn't have today, but that one needs one to speed it up. So it's very special to see that one in the comments on the left goes in just to keep up the effort on organic production, when one in their program and in the big message has said that one should strengthen it. Whenever a match is made, don't write a thought to increase the wager, but let's keep it happening. What is it? Then the gap from what is most likely to be the result of these negotiations, and what is the opposition's solution, is enormous, even in that area. Just to clarify this with the chronological: for SV, it was simply meant to be a pedagogical solution for the parties. We never felt that the discussion was whether or not to reduce the gap. There was a large majority on Stortinget quite united in. [[The President clubs]] We were the ones who wanted to say specifically that it had to be crowned. It wasn't a bad thing about... [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1475	It was said by a representative of the Right Government Party that what has happened to this agricultural settlement is political gambling. I just want to refute it. I actually don't want to accuse anyone of gambling about exactly this settlement, because I feel that there are real discussions about what kind of instruments you want to use. I would like to underline this in particular, because there is a large group behind the setting that believes it is right that you have a frame that outlines. There's no political game, there's something you have to include in any budget, if it's got a majority, and it has a full reality in it. There has also been discussion about the target price, where important decisions have been made. Some will, and some will not increase – just, at my discretion, quite marginally. But it's not a political game; it's taking responsibility, it's making political choices. What remains after this debate, on the other hand, is that this is a manifestation of the government's paralysis of action linked to its policy in this area. We saw it only when it was about the agricultural report, where we were voted down in very important areas, and it's only a short time since we were taught by, among other things. Representative Ørsal Johansen, but also from government circles, said that 410 million. kr var ram – take it or leave it. So we feel that some of us disagree, and that's fair enough, but now all of a sudden it's not 410, it's 625, plus something from the development fund, the LUF. So my conclusion to this is that we have a government that doesn't rule, and that doesn't prejudge, before you present your messages, offers, what it must be, if you don't probe in the Storting, at least try to read the texts that come from here, and say, "What is the emphasis on?" I think that's serious. And then it goes the way it does now, that we don't get the agricultural settlement settled, and that the Stortinge is deprived of the opportunity to actually exercise both political and constitutional control over what's going on. Then it is not a trifle that we cannot today clarify the question of e.g. The target price or volume model of pigs, which affects very many, and which have a great impact, and which I believe is absolutely a political issue. That's why I again challenge the Left, but I also challenge the Council of State, which is going to have the word after me: what do you think about it? And how do you interpret Stortinget from this debate, about how you stand on such an important question? That would be interesting to hear.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1488	The representative Knut Storberget is actually acting quite neatly, I myself have to agree, but I record that he did not confirm my claim in this post about the Workers' Party's understanding of the income target either. It's worth noting for more. We're in control, it's completely right, and the bulk of this stuff is in control. Through the negotiations, the state went from 410 million. NOK to SEK 550 million. kr – previously stated. But to look after the negotiating institute, in order for one in agriculture to feel confident that there will be no new supply on the go in each round of negotiations, we chose to go to the Stortinget with the original offer. Now end up with a frame – based on the leads that the Left adds, and that I have said that I want to take seriously – of 75 million. I'm going to go to kr over it. It's going to go from 14.9 million. NOK 15 to SEK 15 billion. kr, if we use rounding. It is manageable because the device is responsible, and because it helps to establish the income target, as one did in the processing of the agricultural message. To the representative Heimdal: The claim that we had not had the situation we now see in Hadeland, if there had been other arrests in winter, I will have documented. It's a Swedish wolf on Hadeland. All the tools that have been requested have been notified by the government that we want to offer. Such a claim cannot be presented without being able to document it. So I recommend the representative either to document him or to withdraw him.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1497	The next speaker is the representative of Geir Pollestad. Pollestad has had three articles. He gets another post because he is the case rapporteur, but it is assumed that the representative is talking about cases 2 and 3, otherwise he will be clubbed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1502	The president can put clubs away, because I'm going to do that! Now it is late in the debate that proposals from the Greens/Greens/EFA, as I think it is right to comment. First to Innst. 371 S, i.e. case No. 3, a proposal for a ban on the sale and production of cage eggs in Norway: it is a proposal that I believe the procedure we have had has brought forward that it is not a professional basis for. It is highly uncertain that animal welfare is higher than what it is in environmental cages, so that proposal will not be joined by the Centre Party. I believe that, in line with the position delivered by the Committee, it is also not a good proposal. So to the proposals in case No. 2 which the Greens have been looking forward to. First, proposal No. 3: It is a good proposal; it is a proposal that is entirely in line with a comment made by a Joint Committee, so I will invite several parties to consider whether to support proposal No. 3 by the Environmental Party of the Greens in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox In the case of proposal No: 2 on case No. 2, refers to the inclusion of minimum requirements for the use of Norwegian resources in the feed as one of the criteria of the New Norway brand. I think it's too detailed that the Storting should have some meaning about it. Norwegian resources in the feed is a topic that was also discussed in the other case that we are currently dealing with, and I think that as important as having a label scheme is that we do what the Center Party wants, simply increase the feed price somewhat, the better the grain economy, and better the profitability of grass production. There will be an important contribution to increasing the Norwegian share of production, which I believe has a much greater impact than if the Storting should change the criteria for the Nyt Norway brand.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1513	The President is quite understanding today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1518	I have already thanked for the debate, but found reason to comment on a few things that came up here quite recently. The representative Knut Storberget is talking about games. As far as I remember, I have not mentioned political games in my posts, but there I have to make reservations. I am not going to use the word I used in posts until today against the representative Knut Storberget – that will be the big newspaper headline of. What I said was that the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and SV are double communicating on the income target, and I am not yet able to understand what the income target is. It states that there is «chronically equal development», but there is no proposal either in the context of the agricultural notification or in this case today on chronically similar developments. Then to the representative Per Olaf Lundteg for self-sufficiency. It is quite right that Norwegian food production is dependent on protein from abroad if we are to maintain today's production. But as of today, we are self-sufficient in milk, meat, eggs, cereals in good years, and we produce about. 35 million fish meals each day to a population of 5 million people. We actually have overproduction in many of these sectors. So what we're importing is fruit and vegetables. That's the potential to produce more of it. In addition, we import a lot of sugar, coffee, tea, cocoa, spices, beverages and tobacco products. We may have to stop this, because I expect that the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has not thought that we should start producing it in Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1527	The representative Knut Storberget has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1532	First of all, I must tell the representative Ingunn Foss that she was not the one who made the claims about games, so she can take it easy. It was another representative, from the Right I think, but I did not mention the name. Just so it's said. With regard to the issue of income, I understand that it is difficult for the Right, and perhaps especially for the Left, now to stand in that one does not do well enough to reduce the income gap and go into a serious discussion related to how this is defined, and what has been said from the SV and others. But the conclusion of the day is that, to the extent that some contribute most to reducing the income gap, this must be what is in the setting, and where left Norwegian food producers fail, with good help from the Right and the Advance Party. I believe that this should remain as the reality of this debate, the willingness to bet and the will to perhaps do something about what is most important in order to ensure recruitment and a good increase in food production: to ensure that the income gap is reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1539	The representative, Mr Foss, is the rapporteur for case 1 and thus has 3 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1544	I am not going to spend that long, but I would like to comment on Knut Storberget's last article. If it is so clear that it is the future policy of the Workers' Party in this area, they should have put forward a proposal that it was. As it is now, it is this year, and we know nothing about the future in terms of the income target.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1549	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. One, two, three.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1565	: At the request of the Trade Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1576	This is my trump card to all those who argue that the Workers' Party, as well as the Central Party, has become involved in agricultural policy. Here we have a majority – with the exception of the Centre Party and the SV – in favour of giving the government consent to the conclusion of an agreement between the EU and Norway on trade in agricultural products – negotiations under Article 19 of the EEA Agreement. I'm not going to go into the depth of this. It's been following a traditional trail. We see that some of the quota increases are actually less than what we experienced at the last round of negotiations. That's good. But I'm going to start right away and say that it's a challenge for us when these quotas are put on top of each other and we're going to draw them, that the quotas are going to be so big – especially for milk production, but also for flowers and meat. The majority have also emphasised that in the case of these duty-free quotas, it contributes to the consideration of instruments as compensatory measures. From the Labour Party we see this in connection with what is happening with export opportunities, and in particular what has happened around Jarlsberg-ost. It does not seem particularly desirable to be able to operate it in the future — at least not with the same framework conditions — when the export aid is removed. There is a need to have a thorough review, more thorough than the government has shown, of possible compensatory measures. I am pleased that a majority seems to gather on a proposal that this should be returned by the government in the 2018 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1585	Article 19 of the EEA Agreement requires us to participate in and review the conditions governing trade in basic agricultural products with a view to increasing trade with the EU. For the Right, it is important that one in the negotiations seeks to find good solutions that facilitate trade, while at the same time ensuring that our agricultural interests are properly cared for. Right-wing believes that the government has been very successful, when one also takes on the intention of the EEA Agreement to have a ‘gradual liberalisation’, although we may feel that progress towards liberalisation is slow. Prior to the negotiations, Norwegian offensive interests vis-à-vis the EU were identified by a wide selection of Norwegian companies with a view to increasing Norwegian exports. For the Right, it's important that we exploit the export possibilities we have, because they're good. On the basis of input from the actors, Norway claims to export goods where operators consider the export possibilities to be very good. The outcome of the negotiations means that Norway has gained better market access to the EU on a range of products. Overall, eight new quotas have been created for exports from Norway to the EU. It's very nice, both for Norway and for the companies that have increased exports. In bytes, we have given the EU quota increase in areas where we are already importing. At the same time, the new agreement opens up some more import of food specialities, which also benefits consumers. The agreement has a narrower scope than the previous Article 19 agreement, which was negotiated under the previous government. For cheese, the duty-free import quota is increased by 1200 tonnes to over 8400 tonnes. Imports of cheese from the EU in 2016 were more than 11 400 tonnes, i.e. that there is a large import of cheese for which ordinary customs duties are paid, other than these duty-free quotas. This is in a way a product the Norwegian market wants. In the previous Article 19 agreement, concluded by the Stoltenberg II Government, the import cheese quota was increased by 2700 tonnes. The Nordics want more of these products, and it's good that we can make sure that we get this done in a good way. In the opposition comments, the biased trend in trade in agricultural products from the EU is highlighted, as mentioned by the case-speaker. But that's what's at the heart of developing international trade. Countries specialise in products on which they have good intentions to produce and are competitive, in exchange for other products from other countries, on which they wish to offer and are good at. In recent years customs duties on imports of beef have been reduced for long periods due to shortages in the Norwegian market. The quota has been too limited to match the existing imports and is expected to import in the next few years. There is also a limited increase in existing import quotas for some products. In total, the import quotas for meat products are increased by over 2500 tonnes. The increase in quotas for meat products was 3100 tonnes in the previous agreement concluded under Stoltenberg II. That's what the case spokesperson says, and he was concerned that the quotas are being set on top of each other. But I think it is in line with the EEA Agreement that one should have an increased liberalisation. I also think the agreement is good. He takes into account consumer requests for a wide and good selection of food products, and also takes care of the need for Norwegian agriculture for a good import protection. According to the EEA Agreement, we cannot link fish and agricultural negotiations. I believe that this should take the initiative to discuss with the EU and see if we could achieve something more, but only when it concerns trade. I don't want to challenge the fisheries policy. However, I would like to challenge trade policy and gain greater market access for processed Norwegian fish, especially salmon, into the EU, so that we might have bought a little more of what our good consumers want imported from the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1610	«Norway is a country in the world» said the Prime Minister of the Christian People's Party Lars Korvald from this pulpit in 1972. Sometimes the obvious thing has to be said. It also applies to the EEA Agreement. It is the main trade agreement for Norwegian business and forms the basis for broad and comprehensive cooperation between Norway and the EU. The EEA Agreement is a national compromise and has many of the characteristics of the compromise. Whoever wants to look for weaknesses doesn't have to look long. On the other hand, no one has come up with credible or desirable alternatives. There's a lot of screaming and little wool, to stick to agricultural terminology. As a youth politician in the 1990s, I worked a lot to make the EEA Agreement a reality, because I thought it was the best connection Norway could have to Europe. I mean that today, but with more experience and knowledge. Article 19 clarifies that increased trade is to take place on a mutually beneficial basis. I find it alarming that the majority in the vote cannot support an ambition to ensure a better balance in the development of trade in agricultural products in the coming rounds. There is then a way to walk quietly in the doors. Article 19 of the Agreement, currently under consideration, is incorporated into a series of agreements which leave an impression of imbalance. It may not be as bad as the agreement the red-green government presented to the Stortinget in 2011, but there is no reason to shout hurrah. But instead of crying over spilled milk or cheese, I will point to some important leads for future negotiations. Firstly, more long-term perspectives need to be taken into account when assessing duty-free allowances. It is not enough to base assessments on the current market situation. Such allowances involve permanent, irreversible losses of Norwegian production opportunities, and there is something for which the Christian People's Party has respect – and competence if so, I would say – there is a question of the perspective of eternity. Secondly, there is a great difference in the value of duty-free allowances. Crustaceans-based livestock products derived from bovine and small ruminants have a greater value creation and a more important role in the employment and operation of the agricultural land of the country than other livestock products. This needs to be given more emphasis in negotiations. Thirdly, I am concerned that the garden door for the import of potted plant and horticultural products has now been opened so much that it is a ghost of important value creation in Norwegian horticulture. Furthermore, large imports of living plant material pose a high risk of new pests and plant diseases being introduced. It is the responsibility of both authorities and importers to ensure significant control of imported plant material. In conclusion, I would like to point out to the majority of the Committee's request to the government to propose compensatory measures for the products particularly affected by this agreement. I'm waiting in excitement to see and hear what this is.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1629	This matter is of major importance for Norwegian agriculture and food production. Developments have seen the EU sell more and more food to Norway, more and more agricultural products to Norway – a strong growth. Therefore, this liberalisation to which it is now being put should not be necessary. It comes to the top of the previously entered entries. We are therefore in the situation that imports of agricultural products from the EU are increasing. It challenges our national production, and there are also two provisions in Article 19 of the EEA Agreement that I do not think are fulfilled. One is that it should be within the framework of the agricultural policy of the parties. The second is that it should be done on a mutually beneficial basis. The center party thinks that none of these conditions are met, and can therefore not join the extension. When it comes to the plural comments on which the Central Party is involved, I think the representative Hemdal did well for them. There I was going to stop, but then the spokesperson went to the Right – from the Right government party – to the Chair and decided that we should now connect fish and agriculture more clearly, that we should give greater recognition to the fishing ground, that we should sacrifice agriculture and agricultural interests for it. It's a line shift, I think I'm very sorry, and it's very alarming that the chosen one came today. I believe that the representative Trellevik is not a private-practice Right-Polician, but a spokesperson for the Right-Government Party, and that he also expresses the view of the government. I would like to ask State Council Hill-Jensen to clarify it later in the debate if that is not the case. Because it's like the Right People in Norway are very eager to talk about the link between fish and agriculture – if we just give up customs protection on agriculture, we'll get free sales from the fish. I don't think that's right, because if you look at the number of meals as Norwegians, compared to the number of meals as EU citizens, i.e. the markets we have for each other, and the production possibilities we have for fish and farming, I don't think the EU will say: OK, that's okay – they remove the customs protection of agricultural products, then they sell the fish free of customs duties. It's not that simple. The EU negotiations in 1994 showed that it was not that simple. Because we would have more market access, what was it when the EU was supposed to have? Well, they weren't just going to have customs freedom, they were going to have access to our resources, to our fishing resources. I hope the debate can explain that this was something that was going on, that it was a speech-incident. If this is an expression of a shift from the Right and a new line in Norway's relationship to trade policy with the EU, it is important to clarify it, because there is a great debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1644	Today, when we are dealing with a new agreement with the EU on extended trade in agricultural products, the Left supports the proposals as they stand. It is worth noting that the new agreement provides concessions for goods on which there are already imports, but duty-free allowances may have negative consequences for Norwegian production of these goods. Future negotiations relating to Article 19 should take into account the potential negative impact of such concessions on Norwegian primary producers. In the context of the Storting’s decision to phase out export subsidies by 2020, increasing quotas as set out here could present challenges for Norwegian milk producers. The left is committed to providing good conditions for Norwegian agriculture and wants to support Norwegian production opportunities. In a situation of increased price pressure on the Norwegian milk market, it is important to stimulate consumption of Norwegian milk. Too high a target price for milk can reduce Norwegian consumption. In April we discussed the agricultural report. In a majority comment, the Left stressed that the State share of quota sales is held back until there is a balance in the market. The left considers that the EEA Agreement is essential for the good development of Norwegian business — really — in sum also for Norwegian agricultural interests. Nevertheless, it is important that the conditions governing trade in agricultural products are mutually beneficial, as stated in Article 19. It should be possible to achieve increased trade without prejudice to Norwegian production. That is what the Left wants: increasing trade and cooperation within the EU, which benefits both Norway and the rest of Europe. Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Storberget, for the work he has done on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1659	This matter concerns the framework for Norwegian food production. We are a country with high mountains, deep valleys and a rough climate, and we produce food in almost all municipalities. We have a political goal of producing food across the country, and we think that those who produce our food should have a decent income. Therefore, customs and import issues are important. We need a policy to make it possible to live by producing food in Norway. We simply need a proper import protection. We in SV do not support this agreement. The nation calls it to support this agreement to weaken Norwegian agriculture with an open eye. It's an assessment I share. It is a paradox that we are increasing imports of food while saying that we want to increase food production based on Norwegian land resources. - Make it hang in there. This agreement is based on Norway’s giving and giving, without getting any back, and the agreement has not taken on the fact that the United Kingdom is in an EU outsourcing process. Now we have an agreement that puts Norwegian horticulture into play, because so much potted plant product and garden product can be imported. According to the Norwegian Gartner Association, this could reduce the turnover of Norwegian horticulture by as much as 100 million. kr per year. It is a major loss for Norwegian agriculture. Here, too, there's also a gamble with plant protection, because there's a great risk of importing large amounts of living plant material. It is very important that this increase in imports is met with good controls of the plants that come in, and that importers that cause damage have a clear liability. Once this agreement has been reached, it is important that the government comes back with measures to compensate for it. I am thinking in particular of dairy producers. Today we not only give up a chaotic agricultural business, we also accept a poorly negotiated agreement that weakens the objectives of food production. It is a sad day for anyone who wants to produce more food based on Norwegian resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1676	Norway is a trade nation, and cross-border trade and investment contribute to increasing our standard of living, the shape of our business structure, and it ensures our value creation. The EEA Agreement is an agreement ensuring market access to the EU in important areas, and it is the main commercial policy agreement for Norwegian business. Agricultural products are mainly excluded from this agreement, but pursuant to Article 19 of the Agreement, Norway and the EU shall review the conditions for trade in basic agricultural products every two years with a view to gradual liberalisation of trade. The Article 19 negotiations are regulated in a separate provision of the EEA Agreement, without any link to other issues, such as: seafood. And here I just have to admit that the representative of Trellevik can count himself as being slaughtered by his own state council in terms of precisely the speculations about the linking of seafood and agriculture. It was as far away from what's pronounced policy from the Right as it's likely to come. Then I hope we've put that death. We can spend time on it, it's going to be fine. [[Laughter]] The form of the agreement is something that Norwegian agricultural interests should be very pleased with, because it affects competitive agriculture – if we see it in a European context – in a very good way. The alternative would be a framework where we had no leads, no shields. It would put Norwegian agriculture in a completely different position and expose Norwegian agriculture to a completely different risk. This is the third agreement concluded in accordance with Article 19 of the EEA Agreement. The previous agreement was initiated on 1 January 2012. In the negotiations, the government’s starting point has been to find solutions that facilitate trade while at the same time safeguarding important Norwegian agricultural interests. We have focused on the general market situation in Norwegian agriculture and on the decision of the Storting to phase out export subsidies for agricultural products by the end of 2020. The agreement balances, in the government's view, Norwegian agriculture and agricultural production, on the one hand, and Norwegian consumers and the diversity of the Norwegian food market on the other. The outcome of the Article 19 negotiations is well anchored in Norwegian agricultural policy. I note that the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Right Party and the Advance Party, points out the importance of coarse-feed-based milk and meat production for the value creation, employment and exploitation of land resources throughout the country. In the agreement, the quota for cheese is increased by 1200 tonnes. The quota for meat products is increased by 2,550 tonnes. We have not given EU concessions for sheep and lamb meat. So we have an agreement that is significantly less valuable to the EU than the one we negotiated last time. This is narrower and smaller than the previous agreement. Concessions are granted for agricultural products where there are already imports at regular customs duties or where there is a longer-term import need. Concessions have also been granted on some commodities that can help to enhance the diversity of the Norwegian food market, while respecting the provision of Norwegian agricultural products. Imports through the new quotas are expected to substantially replace existing imports at full or down-dated customs duties and not to replace the Norwegian production volume. Therefore, the government does not expect to have a greater impact on jobs in agriculture and the food industry. The experience gained from the 2012 Article 19 Agreement, where a significant amount of concessions was granted than in this Agreement, supports this conclusion. Int. 336 S for 2016-2017 agrees with the Storting for the conclusion of the negotiated agreement. At the same time, the government notes that the Stortinget requests that, in its 2018 draft state budget, we promote compensatory measures for losses incurred by producers in the event of the loss of market shares resulting from the Article 19 agreement and the phasing out of export subsidies. This is particularly true for the milk sector. For the milk sector, I would like to stress that the government is constantly assessing measures and adaptations to the volume of milk production, as well as up-to-date knowledge of developments in needs. This is done, inter alia: in relation to the annual agricultural operations and the administration of the milk quota system. Similarly, the government follows market developments closely also in other parts of agriculture. The government will, of course, come back to this question by submitting proposals for the 2018 government budget. I have to be allowed to admit that we are talking here about negotiations and the framework for negotiations, and an understanding in the EU – when we come next to the negotiating table – that any loss for Norwegian agriculture will automatically be compensated in the state budget, gives us a little less short when we get to the negotiating table than if we had done what we normally do, and said that this is something that is taken internally in the agricultural settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1704	The President hopes that the Council of State has not intended to make it a habit to slaughter big business representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1709	No, I can promise. It was a one-time case. But it did good.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1715	The President has understood that. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1722	Despite the slaughter, I still have some speaking ability. But I was quite clear that it was my opinion that I presented, and so it was in the previous debate that Lundtigen and Pollestad presented different views. [[Laughter]] The fact that you can have a small debate about different views, actually refreshes the debate, I think. The EU is an incredibly important market for Norwegian fish – 80 pst. our fish depend on the EU. We are negotiating quotas into the EU market for fish in other contexts as well. My point is exactly what I experience every time I'm with the EEA Committee in Brussels and meet my colleagues down there, then it's a shame that they want market access to Norway, and that they can offer market access if we just give it to them. What is my point is that we must try to look for good opportunities and solutions, precisely in order for us to have better market access into the EU for all the exports we want. That's the good policy of the Right. We want market access, and of course we are working on this. But going on an accord with Article 19 is certainly not my own or Right's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1729	I just want to take the floor for some comments, because I think we should actually congratulate the Council of State on a very moderate agreement. I mean that. I believe, as in the case of Mr Trellevik, that we could meet several tougher demands from the European Union. We would then be faced with a slightly more difficult situation. In fact, the EEA Agreement states that there should be gradual liberalisation and adaptation between countries and that it should be mutually beneficial. You can observe that we don't always get everything we want, if it's going to be of mutual benefit. I read a book by Madeleine Albright once, and she said, "What you see dependents on where you are" when she moved from Congress to the administration. Then the world just changes there, and you have to accept that. What I think we should recognise in this debate is that trade is the very foundation of Norwegian welfare. If we are not willing to enter into discussions about which balances need to be taken to develop our trading base, we will also damage our future welfare development. I do not think the debate here really bears the mark of that. You should raise it to that level. Then I think we should recognise that countries need to specialise. Countries need to develop competitiveness. And it's the industries that do it, that survive in the long term, that do it well in the long term. That is precisely why we have also focused on developing competitiveness in the agricultural context, based on our situation and our premises. So a little bit to it in dealing with green pot plants, because it's quite typical for such commercial discussions. Those who get a little inconvenience to themselves are exaggerating the consequences of the pressures. For green potted plants, the quota was increased from 3 million. NOK 7 million. kr. The industry itself says that Norwegian production of green pot plants has increased steadily and stable over a long period of time. So there's no sign that it's getting particularly hard. For flowering pot plants, the quota went up by 12 million. NOK 20 million. kr. There I was informed that the total Norwegian flower production was SEK 1.3 billion. kr. So the quota is going to be 1 pst. of the total Norwegian production. It is quite typical – the adverse effects are overdrafted in such debates. I don't think it has any adverse effects at all. I believe that, on the contrary, is a healthy adaptation, and a corrective approach in the Norwegian market is given to how the industry should be competitive.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1744	These Article 19 negotiations are derived from the work of the previous government on the so-called ‘ostetoll’, which led to the launch of new negotiations to achieve a better balance between the Norwegian and European positions. I am very pleased that several of the parties who were critical of the negotiations in the course of the negotiations are joining the agreement today. It's important, but it also shows another important point. When one does, it is in recognition that Article 19 of the EEA Agreement, for which there is a solid plurality of this house, actually leads to the gradual liberalisation of trade in agricultural products. This means that everyone sitting in this room knows that it will come gradually over the years to come – increasing trade in agricultural products as well. Then we only have one way to deal with this well. It is by having an agricultural policy that actually makes us more competitive, because competition will come. That is why this government has been pursuing an agricultural policy that has been involved. I know that cost-effectiveness has been a scoring word in the agricultural debate in the last year, but it is important for competitiveness. Developing their characteristics, so that one can compete on other than just price and volume, is another important element. This shows that the Stortinge assumes responsibility for Norway being a leading co-operation country for EU countries because we have mutual benefit from trade between our countries. Then we also need the same parties that are now aware of it and are voting in favour of the draft agreement to consider it in other agricultural policy discussions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1751	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 5 and 6 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1780	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1789	Today we are dealing with both the reindeer management agreement and the reindeer management notification. There are two issues that give the reindeer great support from the Storting for further development and provide a good basis for continuing to be both a sustainable and a culture-bearing industry. The Committee took note in the hearing of the request for a NOU prior to the notification. It has not been considered appropriate now because it is in the final phase of the implementation of the reindeer management law and changes in the management have recently been implemented. However, the communication is limited both in scope and in choice of theme, and it does not prevent the development of a NOU at a later stage. The notification is an industrial notification, which emphasises the reindeer’s potential for profitable operations, and it is also based on previous agreement in the Storting. Purification has positive potential for development, which is currently not fully exploited. The theme of ecological sustainability also discusses the interaction between ecological, economic and cultural sustainability, the economic basis, resource management, land issues, legal issues and changes in management, as well as the coexistence of reindeer management with other industries and the management of any conflicting land interests. Purification is under development and has been taken in recent years to ensure the future basis. The reintroduction adopted under the 2007 Act is now largely completed and the quality of the reindeer meat is very high. It means greater earnings for reindeer owners and a market that now responds well to products. At the same time, the use of new technologies can save industry both for time and resources in the supervision and collection of flocks. Minor use of motorised vehicles will also save both the environment and the pastures. So it's going to be exciting to follow forward. There is also a strong focus on obtaining good land management processes, and a knowledge-based balance of user considerations needs to be ensured. This includes better training for local, regional and state administration. There is now also an explicit desire to facilitate the main reindeer operators. The values the family can generate in addition to the meat production related to the reindeer farm determine whether it is all or part of the family that can have the main reindeer activity. Repurchase policy instruments shall facilitate the creation of an economic space and freedom for families to organise their own operations. So some considerations about the Committee's comments. The Committee is aware of the challenges that reindeer have faced for a number of years in relation to the predatory problem. It goes on both the increased number of puree taken by predators and the evidence they need to document loss. Now it's precarious. Not until the winter season is over, eagles are there, and eagles take the life base from the industry, namely the calves. Increased eagle numbers and increased calf losses are reported from year to year. This year, it's so bad that the reindeers almost don't last. They must pick up a dozen dead reindeer on a daily basis. It is suffering for both animals and humans. Now there's a large majority on Stortinget that says in the notes that enough is enough. The notes we deliver are not misunderstandings. Water management is an important industry in Norway and an important cultural carrier. I am pleased that an aggregate increase supports this industry and ensures that it will also have good framework conditions and good prospects in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1810	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on an important matter. On the part of the Workers' Party, we find that reindeer farming in Norway is initially an unusually important cultural carrier and of great importance to the whole of Norway, and not least to the indigenous people behind it. That's the one. The other thing that has shaped our work, especially with the message, is the unusually large potential associated with reindeer operations. It's a fantastic product, and as the case-law rapporteur was in it, it's just getting better and better. In addition, there is an important element in this also being an opportunity to expand and increase employment in Norway. The fourth thing I want to mention, and we can't forget, if you've done a long time on the way down, the discussion of sustainability and reindeer management is still up to date. This applies not least to the exercisers' seas, and the fact that the adjustment to the reindeer and how it turns out, both side by side with some practitioners, has a justice aspect in itself that it is important to keep with them in the further work. It also bears some of the proposals that we are promoting, characterized by. The three challenges that emerge from this are primarily the question of maintaining sustainability. You can't rest on your laurels and say that the work is now done, in terms of reindeer numbers. There are also other sustainability challenges that there is reason to be aware of. The second challenge I want to address is that when you get a sustainable reindeer strain and get the animals you want to take out, it's still a great potential for better processing. I want to draw up the work that is done, among other things. of the southern semen of Røros with Rørosrein. It's a very good example that it's a huge potential for the industry to be able to process the products in a good way. I am pleased with the lines that the government has drawn up related to this in the message, and that a large amount of stuff says about it. But it's a big job to do for the industry and also a big job politically for the authorities. The third thing I want to mention in this round is the situation of predators, which was also discussed by the rapporteur. It's obvious, we see, in both the north and the south, that reindeer operators are hit very badly in the case of predators. I had hoped that the debates we have had on some predatory species – read: wolf – could now help to raise awareness of the losses and injuries of reindeer operators due to several types of predators. The President-in-Office of the Council was in on this. There we have a piece left to go, and I hope you are just as alert on the alert as we were yesterday about the wolf, in terms of the damage that a lot of reindeer operators now experience, both in terms of preventing, and, not least, in terms of repairing damage, and especially in terms of how the compensation systems turn out. Then I would like to comment briefly on one of our proposals – I would also like to address our proposals in case No. 6 – and this is the proposal for a review of the reindeer management law, in particular with regard to the more objective liability and the collective objective liability with which reindeer management is often met. The working party believes that there is a need for a review of this. We see the need for the reindeer plant and industry to take responsibility in many cases when we are not able to identify who is harmful and where the pest actually is. It's one of the reasons why the Workers' Party is open to just having mandatory labelling, that one sees it along with the new branding methods, which I think the reindeer industry should open up and thus adapt to a modern time and a modern technology. This could allow changes in the redundancy law relating to collective liability that go more towards what we see in other industries, namely, that it is the perpetrator who has to pay compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1827	The representative Knut Storberget has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1832	I would first like to thank the rapporteur for a good cooperation in both cases. I would like to draw my attention to one matter, which is about the notification. In the open hearing there were a number of instances that would delay the processing of this notification. We got to the goal anyway. I believe that the position we are about to adopt today represents a good and sustainable result for the country's reindeer management. The last time this house dealt with a rainstorm report was 25 years ago. That is why I am pleased that the government has previously promoted a reindeer management message that deals with a comprehensive policy on reindeer management in this country. Ecological sustainability and good production are key points of the Communication, as well as strategies and measures to make better use of industry’s potential and opportunities in a market-oriented and rational way. The revenues of sewage treatment plants shall be generated, as far as possible, by selling the products and services requested to the market. I therefore consider this communication to be very good, forward-looking and ambitious in this respect. Purification is an important industry for many people, whether in domestic layers or in a Sami side. I am therefore pleased that the majority in this Chamber agree that reindeer activities should be developed into a market-oriented industry and that knowledge-based and profitable business activities are central. As noted in the comments, reindustry has positive opportunities for development that are not being exploited today. This only reflects the need for just this big message. As mentioned at the outset, this Communication has a number of good actions. I record that all parties outside SV see challenges related to animal welfare and loss of reindeer. Therefore, I am pleased that there is a majority to support tightening up the regulation and increasing the monitoring of the disease Chronic Waste Disease. This disease is important to monitor. It is particularly important in order to prevent the loss of purity in the industry. In this context, it is also central to a re-examination of predatory and grazing priority areas. As in other grazing industries, it is also essential in the reindeer sector to limit the loss of predators. The loss of reindeer must be fully replaced when it occurs. Ideally, the loss of pure to predatory animals shall not occur at all — even in the case of other farmed animals. It is essential that we have a reindeer management policy that facilitates increased value creation through private slaughter and the placing on the market of reindeer meat. Access to safe food shall be ensured for the consumer and offal handled in an environmentally sound manner. The new classification system also strengthens market performance by ensuring better reporting of slaughtered pure meat and the submission of high quality meat. It appears in the opinion that the majority of the Committee sees positive effects in this respect and that it increases predictability. It's a pleasure. With regard to value creation, it is also important that we continue our efforts to develop reindeer-based tourism as part of the Sami and national travel activities. Travel and tourism have long traditions among reindeer farmers. I am pleased that the Committee agrees with the communication's ambition to facilitate the continuation and strengthening of the food element in reindeer-based travel. Furthermore, I see in the setting that SV is again outside a comment that says that ‘family-based reindeer provides important knowledge between generations and is important to care for’. I ask myself why SV does not support this. The family-based reindeer contributes to positive development and facilitates the collection of some of the income from clean-up activities. In addition, this helps to facilitate the establishment of apprenticeship and care-based services and various reindeer products. I also have two clarifications. It emerges that the opposition believes that it should be facilitated for the administration to have competence in the use of Sami language in the description of reindeer and trades. It is also presented in one of the minority proposals where it is proposed: ‘The government is asking for a review of women’s economic situation regarding pensions and welfare schemes.’ I can only speak for the Advance Party. The reason why we do not agree with these requests is that we believe there are limits to what we politicians are going to do, and what the industry itself is going to do on its own – even if the proposals can be considered to have good intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1856	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good job. My post will also go on the groceries message. The sewerage industry is an important industry closely linked to the Sami people and Sami culture. This means that the policy to be pursued in this area must be aligned with the Sami interests and the preservation of Sami culture. It is therefore not a good thing that this communication, which is intended to guide the industry for many years in the future, has received such strong criticism from Sami groups. The process of preparing the notification contained many consultations, yet there was no agreement on how to address important challenges. In addition, the notification was submitted at a time when the treatment in Stortinget had to take place during the most hectic period of this industry, the reintroduction. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that any changes that are to be made and that we also support today must take place in cooperation with industry and in a way that also facilitates the continuation of Sami tradition and culture. Let me, for example. bring forward the individual labelling of pure. The Christian People's Party supports this, as we believe it is important, so we also oblige other industries to have control of the population and have good arrangements to ensure this. At the same time, we know that in Sami tradition, it is important to be able to recognize its own pure and important characteristics for it by reading the traditional ear tag. It is important that the government in its efforts to introduce individual labelling of pure ensures that traditional ear labelling can be continued. It is also important for me to clarify that this must be done without much increased costs for the reindeer. The Christian People's Party wants to continue today's reindeer management system with today's model. If they do not have the capacity to follow up all their tasks, it is important that the government ensure that the boards get the resources they need to carry out the tasks they have been given. It has been difficult to implement the scale adjustment adopted by the Storting. Part of this picture is that today there are no public figures on how many different reindeer have, and that, therefore, there is uncertainty about how to follow up the decisions that have been made. As the majority writes in the vote, the awareness of the others' purity increases the confidence that everyone complies with the upper bounds laid down, thereby increasing the safety of a stable withdrawal of slaughterhouses. We are therefore in favour of publishing the internal figures of the side-shares in the industry, but necessary limitations and assessments of how this is to be implemented in practice must be made again in cooperation with the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1871	When it comes to the reindeer agreement, I record that there has been a consensus there, and I will not spend any more time on him. I want to associate some comments with this message. The centre party was also in doubt if we should handle this message now in ours, both on the basis of the process that has been, the situation the industry was in, and the situation the Storting was in. There was, however, a number who wanted to do it, and then we wanted to express our reality in the message. In many of the comments, we are in agreement with the Working Party, and I therefore refer to the article Knut Storberget held about them. In the Committee's hearings there were quite strong reactions to both the content and the process. We've noticed that, and I think it's important to take it further. For the Central Party, it is important that economic, ecological and cultural strengths are three equivalents, that they must be seen in a close context, and that it is not such that any of these strengths are drumming the others. It is especially the cultural bearer power that can be challenged. Therefore, I think it is right to exercise caution in transferring the logic of agricultural policy to the reindeer industry. It's a family food, and sometimes when you're going to consider the needs of the industry – both economic, ecological and cultural – to meet the needs of the administration, the historical and traditional conditions have to work out. When it comes to markings in the message, a mandatory individual selection, the Center Party has not supported a command there. We think it's better to stimulate it through the upcoming reindeer agreements. We also pointed out that there may be a need to make changes to the consultation mechanism so that the goal of a good consultation is not how many consultation meetings one has had, but that one has actually managed to become some – if there is room to make changes to ensure a more real process. For the reindeer industry, too, the view of predatory and predatory policies is very, very important. I think this country needs a tougher predatory policy – a predatory policy that takes more care of people and takes more care of business interests than is the situation today. I am also pleased that there is a number of members in the Committee to keep their tasks in place. And finally, I would like to stress that the measures that are announced in the message should be subject to an ordinary process, so that the reindeer industry also has the opportunity to influence their design.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1892	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for the work he has done. There is also reason to pay tribute to the parties that agreed on a reindeer management agreement. For the Left, it is important – and now I am most concerned with the message – that reindeer management is being developed into a market-oriented industry. It must be knowledge-based and profitable. There is a need for balance and proper care of the tasks of authority and reindeer management. All changes to the framework conditions must be made in cooperation with industry. Purification is closely interwoven with Sami culture and tradition, and this aspect is very important to address. Purgatory operators have unique knowledge of clean and ecosystems that live in clean. The pilot project with electronic individual identification has produced good results. It is important that such labelling be made in a way that does not destroy the possibility of reading traditional ear-labelling. The left supports the proposal on the individualisation of pure. Control of the population and increased knowledge are important. Individual labelling must be made in cooperation with industry and must not lead to high costs for the individual reindeer. Red meat is a product that has a large market potential. The use of Norwegian natural resources to produce food is important. It will be in the future as well. Red meat has a great potential. There should also be a greater potential in reindeer-based tourism and tourism. Food specialities, combined with the unique experiences of reindeer farming, need to be further developed. Offers and services based on the knowledge and culture of reindeer husbandry centres must be further developed. Education is important for the Left. Everything starts at school. This also applies to reindeer operations. Vocational training in reindeer management needs to be strengthened, and competences need to be increased to take account of the potential for the development of travel life products. Good education, apprenticeship systems and support for young people entering the industry must be central. There is also a need to ensure good arrangements for those who are going to retire. For the Left, the gender perspective is also important here. It is important to facilitate equality in this industry as well. For the left, it is good that the purpose paragraph of the reindeer management law is changed to give priority to ecological sustainability. Further work needs to be done on defining the content of the sub-objectives of ecological, economic and cultural sustainability. On the question of whether the reindeer management agreements should be two years old, we in the Left believe that one-year agreements should continue, because the state budget is granted for one year at a time, and because of the varied slaughter withdrawal between seasons that can take place in a nature-based industry, such as reindeer management. Access to land is a necessary condition for the industry to achieve the objective of increased production and profitability. It is important that more research is made into the impact of different land interventions on reindeer management. Good land use maps provide fewer conflicts and better predictability. Purity is an industry that we have in common with Sweden and Finland. It is important that work on a new convention with Sweden is given a high priority, so that an agreement will be put in place. The left is concerned with language, and it is important that the reindeer management has competence in the use of Sami language in describing reindeer and subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1922	Rarely have I been on a ring at Stortinget, where a message has been more critical than this. There was a lot of criticism from almost all the participants in the call, and the message was requested to be withdrawn. We have chosen to listen to that in SV, and that is what we are proposing today. This is a big message that is based on a low level of knowledge. It was a clear signal from several of the listening parties. In the autumn of 2016, a report came from a partisan working group that had faced challenges for internal self-government in the reindeer sector. It is very strange that this report is not mentioned by a word in the government's message. The merger refers to this as a message with actions that are still at the Idea stage. They do not work properly. Researchers have also suggested that the Norwegian administration of reindeer is based on poor knowledge. The antology «Samian Reindrift – Norwegian Myths» also shows this. He also recommends that I read both the Council of State and the Committee. There have been consultations with the Assembly and industry in the work on the message, but this type of consultation is of little value to the government at all if it does not listen to the recordings that have come. Then there are no real consultations. There have also been questions directly to the government about whether the aim of the consultations was to agree, or whether it was just a purely listening post. At the top of the whole, it was put up for treatment at the same time as the reintroduction, which made it harder for the parties involved both to get involved in the proposal and to make audio recordings. It made matters even more serious. First, the government does a work based on weak knowledge, so the government does not listen to consultations with the Sameting and the Industry, then there was a hearing round that was too short to make it realistic for the industry to enter the message properly. So here we've been dealing with a government message where the criticism hails from the parts of society that we really should decide, i.e. the reindeer operators themselves and the researchers. You should have an alarm bell somewhere before just a walk of the garden. Tuesday, June 20th, next week, we are going to consider the proposal to set up a Truth Commission. It's a beautiful and, to a large extent, plural-based setting that comes there, where one really acknowledges the Sami and the female and the role of the cultural industries in the development of their culture, while here we are demonstrating the opposite. We don't listen to those who research this, who are many, who are strongly critical of the administration, or to the practitioners in this field. The concept of traditional knowledge, as an example, is used once in the whole message, at the bottom of Chapter 4.1, which deals with Swedish reindeer operations. It is quite obvious that no traditional knowledge is discussed or recognized in a big message that then goes into those degrees into Sami culture and nutrition. This political package cannot accept SV, we think it's especially that a good one to put on such a line that one should just push it through, even with the big resistance that is. I could compare it to the industry message. If all the industry messaging hearing authorities went against the message and thought it was based on a very wrong case, that there were ideas that were not worked through, the Storting would clearly have pulled the case, she would not have come here once. You can go from area to area of society. Of course, it would not have happened that we had dealt with a message like this that had been so hard contributed by both the researchers and the practitioners in the field. But it doesn't apply in this case. Here we can just go through what we want, and I think it's too bad. I am therefore addressing the proposal SV has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1943	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1949	When the representative Knag County talks about a weak knowledge base, it's worth listening. He has a long experience with that. However, the knowledge base of the reindeer notification is based on the best available knowledge of the department and the underlying etatar itself, and on significant consultations at both administrative and political level. This means that we are presenting a reintroduction message that is now largely connected to the Storting, because she outlines the necessary steps that, yes, are controversial in parts of the industry. The question of individual labelling, for example, for reindeer in the same way as for all other livestock producers in the country, has been very demanding in the consultation rounds. I recognize that, but I still think it is absolutely necessary, both if we are to have control of how the reindeer evolves, if we are to have simplified slaughter processes, and if we are to have sufficient confidence that we can make changes – as the representative Knut Storberget was involved – in the long term, for example. change liability. The fact that SV is standing on the sideline of it, while the bulk of the flooding largely ends up on the proposals, shows, in the same way as in the previous case we were with and treated, that SV is constantly sitting away in an outer edge of the political debate. I am very comfortable with that. It makes sure they're not affected. However, the reindeer management agreement for 2017-2018 is now in place. It's the fourth year we land a reindeer business agreement with the reindeer business without talking about dollars or percent or all the possible details in complicated schemes, because the reindeer has shown a fairytale ability in recent years to market right. They have seen that changing policies has given rise to increased production, with a better bottom line. And through a scale adjustment that has been extremely demanding for many reindeer owners, one has actually achieved a production that is more balanced with the resource base. It gives increased profitability, it gives increased basis for betting, and it gives more reindeer meat in the market. So the policy in this area, which has come about with alternating plurals and with a plural that is larger than the government party normally anchors its decisions in, has worked. It makes all the parties who have stood up for those decisions feel honored that one has done so when one looks at the results it has given. And that means that we still have great potential in the coming years to develop the reindeer industry. The centre party, which is afraid that we have too few real consultations, can be sure that the government has changed proposals on the basis of the consultation rounds. For example, I was. set to go far beyond what we are now proposing, with the publication of reintelligence. I think there's a lot of arguments that argue that the challenge we've had with reintalization, the challenge we've had with reindeer growth, and that people can start to position themselves again in operation, given the potential for a new reindeer reduction, should be more public than we've suggested now. But because, through the consultation rounds, we've actually moved positions to try to achieve unity, that's not the proposal. Then to get criticism that the consultations are not real, I thought I was strange. In order to ensure that the state is required by the consultation law to agree, even when a person tries to push through policies for which there are no pluralities in the national Parliament, I believe an undermining of the entire consultation law. Therefore, it is still necessary to stand up for the reindeer industry, continue to develop it in the market direction, continue to stand up for those who have done a very important job – a large part of the reindeer industry – by adapting their reindeer figures, and still shut down those who are trying to reposition and not align themselves with the legislation, with the hope of getting out of it strengthened. We can't allow that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1966	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1971	I wanted to take the floor to underline the points of the representative of Storberget on the south, because they have very easy to drown in the general debate on the reindeer industry. Sørsamer is a small environment that is very up-to-date. They manage their tribe very well, but they are threatened. Robbery policy, as in itself is a very good comment on the attitude, threatens a culture that is small and protected by international conventions. There is no doubt that wolf policy threatens this culture. That's what we're going to be able to do about it all the time. Since this is perhaps the last debate where Knut Storberget and I are on the floor in the same debate, I would like to thank him for many good debates. We've been smoking in most of the disagreements, but at this point we found ourselves together. There is also some of the good in Norwegian politics, I believe, that even if one represents a wide range of interests, when it comes to something of fundamental interest for our own county – a matter in which the rest of the country actually decided that our county could be sacrificed on the national altar – one can be found together to at least call out a warning about what is going on. Now it spreads across the rest of the country, now the papers in large parts of the country cover what we've lived with for 25 years. I think it is worth using a few words to thank for many good debates – good fighting, but also good cooperation on important issues. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1980	I take the floor to draw the attention of the Business Committee to the fact that the SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre presented a proposal that was discussed in the Stortinget last week, to get an overall report on Southern Sami language, nutrition and culture. I fully agree that the Southern Sami culture, industry and language are very threatened. That was the background to the proposal, and I regret to say that the government did not want to implement it. There was quite a broad consensus that we should follow up the NOU called the Heart Language, which is about all the small Sami languages, how southern Sami is something of what is threatened, because there are very many different languages. But some of the northern Sami are also threatened. One of the reasons why SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre promoted this joint proposal was that we saw the need here for a comprehensive review of all policy areas, including those that are difficult for all parties, because there is no doubt that this is a minority in the minority that is drowning in a way. To put it this way: the common policies are drowning in national policies, and the symmetries are drowning in Sámi policy. I hope this can be realised, and that we will have to go through this as a whole, because there is no doubt that there is a need for specific, specific measures and considerations in national policies in different areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e1989	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e2005	I don't think there's any danger that I'm going to spend the entire speaking time. The main debate on the revised national budget will take place on Wednesday 21 June. As the rapporteur-in-Office, I would just like to make a few comments about the law we have to deal with now. The legislative element of the revised national budget for 2017 has a relatively limited scope and basically bears the hallmark of broad consensus within the Committee. I just want to mention some of the main points. It is a unanimous committee that supports the government's proposal on tax-advanced pension savings. Furthermore, there is an overall committee, with the exception of its member from the SV, which inter alia: supports the proposal for a tax incentive scheme for long-term investment in start-up companies. The same majority also supports tax relief for pensioners. I also want to mention the point of sick pay for self-employed workers and the introduction of a compensation rate of 75 pst. as from 1 October 2017, which is also the majority of the Committee, other than the SV’s representative. There is also a follow-up to the tax settlement and a valuation discount in the property tax here, which the Committee, as a whole, other than the SV representative, supports.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e2014	The main debate on tax and distribution policy will be revised, so I will not go into this so deeply, but show that in several areas SV disagrees with what the government has presented. This is because it is unlikely that these tax cuts will have any effect on job creation. It's good for the government to show. This is spent on billions of dollars, and the level of investment in Norwegian business has not exactly increased. There are large proceeds, which SV believes should have been used in a more constructive way, which would have strengthened the country and not just made the distribution even more skeptical. When we have also asked about e.g. The tax incentive scheme, it turns out, is only 40 pst. by Norwegian enterprises that fall under the scheme, which means that it is not particularly accurate. As far as tax relief for pensioners is concerned, not only the UK, but also the media have clearly shown that this is also a proposal that benefits them mainly who have quite a good economy. I would also like to remind you – I will not talk for 30 minutes, even if it is speaking time – that we have made suggestions to look at the pensioners' economy, in the light of the fact that we have now had three social security settlements where pensioners have suffered a real decline in their income. Of course, it affects most of those who have the lowest pension. That means you're on a decline for the pensioners, and that's very sad, because I've been following the poverty statistics, where we've seen in recent years that there's been a decline in the number of pensioners in the proportion of the population who are poor. I thought the Stortinge agreed that we wanted to go forward, but if we continue with the system this government and obviously also the majority of the population think we should have, we risk that there will be an increasing number of poor pensioners. You can't help it by making it possible for those who have a good economy to save even better pensions. Then you have to do something about the pension and the tax level of those who have the lowest pensions, and also put in direct action for the minimum pensioners who do not pay taxes. We then refer to the state budget for 2017, where we among other things. increased the minimum deduction, which would benefit them with the minimum pension. We will come back with our own proposals for tax returns in the context of the revision, and we will discuss it when it is dealt with in the Stortinget. I just want to draw attention to the fact that in the case of a discount on the valuation of shares and operating resources, and in the case of the financial tax model set up here, SV disagreed with the models. Now, when we join these legislative changes, it's not because we agree with the models, but simply because we accept the technique once this is adopted. But, of course, our approach and our own proposals in fiscal policy are firm, and we will come back to that in the context of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e2027	This is an attitude that bears a great deal of consensus, and we in the committee basically agreed that we are taking this debate in the context of the main debate on the revised national budget. I have a few brief comments on Karin Andersen's articles. I got a little insecure, because they said it would only include 40 pst. of the holdings, and thus it was not sufficiently accurate. I'm assuming that SV really thinks it should hit fewer companies than it actually does, but this is something that we're very much in agreement with in the committee, and it's going to be very exciting to see how this can act as an incentive for new start-ups. We need that, and we actually have a situation now where the start-ups are shooting, and that is very positive for both the country and the Norwegian economy in the long term. So to the question of pensioners. This is, of course, the tax component, we also have an arrangement related to the revised budget on the operating side, to call it that. As I think the representative is aware, there are also changes that benefit pensioners, and precisely those pensioners who have the worst income. This, in addition to the increase in the annual pension rate of SEK 4000 per year for single minimum pensioners from 1 September, will show that this group is prioritised by the majority. I recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e2036	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox We have come to the second reading of the law. The first reading was carried out on Tuesday 13 June, and, as all the representatives know, or should know, there must be at least three days between the first and second readings, cf. The last paragraph of Section 76 of the Constitution. In order to comply with this deadline, the President will propose that the Stortinge take a break at the meeting, and that it be called and voted in the usual way at noon. 16:00. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 14.23. The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e2053	The vote will continue on agenda No. Ninety-eight. Case No. 8–20 is the second reading of legal cases, and the President will propose that cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e2202	During the examination of case No. 13 on Agenda No 98, Act 128, cf. Inner. 427 L has been made a mistake. Probably the fault occurred because of voting point No. 10 meant that the proposal for a new § 12a fell. At the same time, you have at the voting point no. 12 adopted the other paragraphs of I, II, III and IV, which shall be the amended law. In the light of this, I propose the following proposals: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: For the purposes of III, the following provisions shall be adopted to be amended as follows: Paragraph 12 seventh and ninth paragraphs are not deleted. The eighth term remains the eighth term. Section 19 is replaced by the following: § 19 Supervision The municipality and the county supervise the fact that the claims in Sections 8 to 12 are retained. Paragraph 20, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: In order to ensure that the provisions of Sections 8 to 12 are complied with, or decisions taken pursuant to these paragraphs are implemented, the Ministry may levy the responsible coercion fee.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e2226	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e2231	I take the floor for a comment on the second reading in case No. (8) Decision of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the amendment of the Grand Duchy’s law on gross domestic product. The right-hand group dealt with this matter after the first reading was in the Chamber on Tuesday. We therefore need to make a comment on the matter at the second reading. We are going to vote in favour of the matter in this round, but at the same time, the Right believes that the proposal is not sufficiently well explored, especially in view of unintended adjustments. We therefore warn that we believe this matter should be considered more thoroughly and in a wider perspective, and will take the initiative to re-examine this issue for the autumn. The law is first introduced with effect for those who leave the next potion. This means that the Storting has time and opportunity to make a more thorough assessment and to adopt any changes in good time before the law applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e2236	I would like to attach a note to Legislative Decision No. 128 on amendments to the concession law. It is the Party of Workers, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party that are behind it. The game may have a slightly different foundation, but in general this is a good example of how a law process should not be. The matter came from the government late. The central party and the Labour Party were not ready to present the position when it was due, and it was first clarified in the debate what the party's position was. That's the end of it with a law decision, and as one heard in Ørsal Johansen's articles: a law decision that wasn't related. This is a very important law, it is a very complicated law, and I think it is irresponsible that this should happen through a dialogue between the ministry and the committee secretary by e-mail between the first and second readings. So here's the question: are there any more bugs that haven't been detected? Could there be changes in the law that have unintended effects that have not occurred due to the legislative process that has been? The following proposals will therefore be made: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: The legislative proposal should be deposited. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e2250	The representative of Geir Pollestad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e2255	I would like to address a legislative amendment to the EOS Control Act, case No. 15 on the agenda. In its letter of 14 June 2017 to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the Minister of Justice and Preparedness pointed out that on 13 June 2017, the Bill of the Stortinge could no longer guarantee that the identity of their sensitive sources is hidden from the future. It is serious when the Minister of Justice again expresses concern that the protection of sources is not good enough with the legislative proposal as it is now available. The Progress Party would have preferred that, in the form of a note, it had been clarified by an overall committee that the EOS Committee should have full access to the source meeting reports, the KIMs, with the exception of the identity of the source and information which may be suitable for revealing the identity of the source through so-called back-door identification information. When such clarification does not receive the necessary majority, the Progress Party wishes the legislative proposal proposed by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence to be dealt with effectively. The proposal is based on: Paragraph 8 of the new fourth paragraph shall be replaced by the following: ‘The Committee may not require transparency and access to particularly sensitive information in the Intelligence Service and the Police Security Service. In particular, sensitive information includes: (a) the identity of the human sources of the service and the specific protected officials of foreign partners; (b) persons and operational plans of the OCC; (c) the particularly sensitive foreign operations of the intelligence service and intelligence service of the foreign partners, which, by means of compromise, could seriously damage the relationship to foreign power due to the risk of the operation, or could lead to serious personal injury or loss of life. Paragraph 8 of the present fourth and fifth paragraphs becomes the fifth and sixth paragraphs. Paragraph 8, fifth paragraph, new third – fifth sentence, is replaced by the following: In the event of disagreement between the service and the selection of the right of access following the fourth paragraph, the head of the service may decide to suspend the transparency of the issue. The service brings disagreement to the department concerned. If the Minister concerned does not instruct the service of transparency, the sample shall bring the matter to the decision of the Grand Duchy. ‘... There is reason to point out that the legislative proposal does not mean that the EOS Committee will be given less access to the source meeting reports than they have had to date. The system of full transparency after they are exposed to identifying information will be maintained. Reference is made here to the letter of the Minister of Justice and Security of 14 June 2017 to the Control Committee. With this I address the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e2281	Then the representative Helge Thorheim addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e2286	I take the floor as rapporteur on this matter, and I should like to draw your attention to the fact that this matter is a proposal for a representative who has the unanimous agreement of the Committee of Inquiry. The representative proposal is promoted by members of all parties. Helge Thorheim is also signed by this proposal. The representative of Thorheim referred to a letter sent by the Minister of Justice to the Control Committee. That's right. In that letter, the proposal that Thorheim's representative was now reading was reproduced. It is not the first time that the control committee is presented with this proposal. While we were discussing this proposal for a representative, we received input from the PST, we received input from the EOS Committee and from the Minister of Justice. There this proposal was outlined. The proposal has been discussed in a joint control committee, which chose to go for another solution, unanimously. This was also voted over in Stortinget, and it became unanimous. It was the treatment. Then the representative of Thorheim here says that it's worrying, or "serious," as he says, that the Minister of Justice says that the sources in the PST do not have protection. Yes, I believe that he is also serious that he says. And I'm glad that it's a total big deal, a unanimous big deal, which means what's right, that all sources in the PST have a good protection. This is something we've discussed in plenary and adopted. I will also draw attention to the Höibø case. It showed that there was a need for control, in the same way as there is a need for source protection. The size has discussed this matter several times on the basis of the value of both parts and has unanimously chosen to support the proposal, which the representative Thorheim has also agreed to submit, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e2297	When the Constitution was passed in 1814, it was aware that the law was a decision in the national assembly of special importance. That's why they divided the Storting into two chambers, noodles and laying, just to ensure a pause of thought in the legislative process. From 2009 onwards, this breakdown was omitted, but the basic idea that it is necessary to be able to consider, through a second vote, whether there is a concern or awareness. That's why I want to express joy in saying that this isn't an expectation of a mechanical repetition of the first time treatment, because in that case we might as well assume that the first time treatment was the only one. So to me, this is an expression of using your democratic right to express your concerns about what you might have been involved in adopting a little too quickly. And then the President also understands that I do not think the criticism that is being addressed to the representative of Mr Thorheim from the President of the Court of Justice was entirely justified. In this respect, we must remind ourselves that the anonymisation of sources is to be carried out and carried out in the same way as before. This means that source meeting information, where names of sources appear, shall be anonymised as before. So other things that make you guess who this anonymous source is, what's called reverse identification, are going to happen. It is the intention of the representative of Thorheim, but it is also the intention of the bill that is based on a conscious majority. This leads me to that conclusion – and I can add: after a conference with the group leader of Right – that we will not join the bill, and that we feel reasonably satisfied and secure with the legislative proposal that we have agreed to in the first reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e2306	This also applies to the EOS Control Act, Act 130, cf. Inner. 431 L. As the representative Tetzschner said, it is necessary and useful to have a second treatment, and in this context, it is possible to bring up new issues that were not highlighted or identified at the first time. But what we are facing here is that the proposal presented is identical to a letter from the Council of State Eriksen Soreide to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of 27 March 2017. That message is attached to the setting. So these issues are carefully discussed in the committee. It was a unanimous committee, a unanimous vote and a unanimous decision. This setting was issued on 6 June 2017. The centre party is not behind the bill and the bill that comes from the Progress Party. We are opposed to the setting and the law that was passed at the first time. Both the suspension and the decision were unanimous at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e2312	From SV's side, we end up entirely with the case-speaker's remarks here from the pulpit on this matter. Otherwise, we refer to the thorough and good work done by her and the committee in connection with the proposal and the vote. The issues raised here were known – clearly and clearly – to the Committee when we dealt with the issue in connection with the vote. Not only that: it is in our opinion that both the need for control and the protection of sources are reflected in the proposal and in the Committee's comments, which have been addressed by several speakers. It's also done in a neat way. In fact, the only thing that might not be completely tidy in the matter is that the Minister of Justice, after first saying in the Stortinge during the debate that he would loyally follow up the Stortinge's decision, chose to send a letter to the Stortinge where he saw any doubt that he had intended to do the same. So the Progress Party group – having the same understanding as everyone else all the way – promotes another proposal. But I think it is important to make it clear to the Storting and later that the understanding of everyone else in the Committee is that this is reflected in the proposal for a decision and in the comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e2317	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 8 to 20. There will be a short call to voting - for safety's sake.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e2335	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Ingunn Foss, on behalf of the Right Party and the Party of Progress the proposals No 3-5, from Pål Farstad on behalf of the Left proposal No 6, by Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA For the sake of order only: the Committee's position on I was drawn up during the debate. In its position as II, the word ‘for’ was deleted. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 6 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the opening of new negotiations with agricultural organisations and for a new settlement in line with the following principles: – The overall settlement framework is increased to SEK 900 million. - the target price of Norwegian cereals is increased by 25 ears and the area premium for roughage is increased. - Remove the bottom to strengthen the smallest uses. - the Government ensures a development in line with the resource base by starting a gradual reintroduction of the ceilings on the livestock premium, the area grant and the district grant for fruit, berries and vegetables. Grant rates at increasing operational levels are adjusted and capped in accordance with animal welfare considerations, sustainability level and local feed base, and the milk production quota ceiling is lowered. - the Government starts work on a multiannual agricultural strategy to adjust the level of income, so that food producers earn as much as comparable groups within seven years. - the grazing premium is escalated for all species of animals in such a way that it is no less profitable to have grazing animals on the pasture than on full-grown land. The premium is granted per month of grazing and the rate is highest for the first animals and then gradually decreasing. Inland grazing premium is maintained and is not made production-volume-orientated. The subsidies to traditional and conservational livestock breeds better adapted to Norwegian conditions and grazing are increased. - support for organic farming is stepped up and a wide-ranging working group is set up in which the contracting parties are involved in the development of the strategy for organic farming. The strategy shall be completed in advance of the agricultural settlement in 2018 and addressed by the Stortinget in the context of the treatment of the agricultural agreement. In-conversion or phase-in counselling is provided, and conversion aid is designed so that the standstill period is not so expensive that people do not dare to convert to organic; and over several years so that both producers and the food soil have the time to change. Debiocharges are removed and priority given to soil quality improvement measures. [[SMIL]] [[RMP]] - the resources for specific environmental measures in agriculture and regional environmental programmes are increased to ensure biodiversity, prevent pollution and take care of the cultural landscape. Cultural landscape support is being increased and the system of selected cultural landscapes is being extended. Both schemes are as specific as possible towards key environmental values. - the target prices of vegetables and fruit are increased and the area premium is increased for vegetables, fruit and berries. - a new aid scheme for investment in animal welfare is established in addition to minimum requirements. - Operational difficulties are introduced. - access to local feed resources is set as a requirement to receive support for large initial investments over the agricultural holding in order to stimulate a use structure in accordance with local resource base. - All support for fur breeding is removed from the farm. - the Government ensures the financing of climate investment in agriculture, including climate advice, data capture at farm level, work on finding good models for the calculation of climate emissions and investments in emission-free agricultural machinery. - The allocation of the action plan on the sustainable use of pesticides will be increased to DKK 10 million. The increase is earmarked for work to reduce pesticide drift. The funds allocated to the agricultural agreement shall be used for agricultural purposes. - a contribution programme is established under the LUF for agricultural holdings, tourist sites and urban cultivation.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e2366	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The 2017 budget shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona Expenditure 1150 For the implementation of the agricultural agreement, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, reduced by: 8,818,000 from NOK 21 500000 to NOK 12 682 000 50 Fund provisions are increased by: 188 668 000 from NOK 1 148 053 000 to NOK 1336 721 000 70 Market regulation, may be transferred, reduced by: 5,795,000 from NOK 315 100000 to NOK 309 305000 73 Price subsidies, estimates, are reduced by: 34,320 000 From NOK 3,298,735000 to NOK 3,264,415000 74 Direct grants may be transferred, reduced by: 5,597,000 from NOK 7 965 410000 to NOK 7 959 813,000 77 Development measures, may be transferred, reduced by: 5,204,000 from NOK 246 380000 to NOK 241 176 000 78 Welfare schemes, may be transferred, reduced by: 73 934 000 from NOK 1541 954000 to NOK 1468 020000 Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size empowers the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to take action under the proposed agricultural settlement, including measures related to appropriations in 2018.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e2626	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee to III at the end. The Committee's position on II and IV is based on the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e2644	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e2986	The Committee's position on V and VI is based on the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e3000	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Three to five from the left. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to conduct new negotiations on the agricultural agreement for 2017-2018. Changes in target prices in Prop. 141 S is determined in line with the proposal in the proposal as part-financing of the framework. [[2016-2017]] The price write-down subsidy to Norwegian cereals is not amended as proposed in Prop. [[heading 73.19]] 141 S [[2016-2017]] Grants to Norwegian food grain are not amended as proposed in Prop. [[heading 73.20]] 141 S [[2016-2017]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The 2017 budget shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona Expenditure 1150 For the implementation of the agricultural agreement, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, reduced by: 8,818,000 from NOK 21 500000 to NOK 12 682 000 50 Fund provisions are increased by: 149 548 000 from NOK 1 148 053 000 to NOK 1 297 601 000 70 Market regulation, may be transferred, reduced by: 5,795,000 from NOK 315 100000 to NOK 309 305000 73 Price subsidies, estimates, are increased by: 4,800,000 From NOK 3,298,735000 to NOK 3,303,535000 74 Direct grants may be transferred, reduced by: 5,597,000 from NOK 7 965 410000 to NOK 7 959 813,000 77 Development measures, may be transferred, reduced by: 5,204,000 from NOK 246 380000 to NOK 241 176 000 78 Welfare schemes, may be transferred, reduced by: 73 934 000 from NOK 1541 954000 to NOK 1468 020000 Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The size empowers the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to implement measures for the implementation of the agricultural holding 2017-2018, including measures related to appropriations in 2018.’ The Right and the Progressive Party have announced subsidized support for the proposals. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e3248	It is then voted on the Committee's position on III. Behind the setting is the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Left and the Greens have announced their support for the vote. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e3268	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Pål Farstad on behalf of Left the proposals No 2 and 3, by Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens There is a vote on proposal No. 3 by the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government to work at EU level for a labelling scheme that can allow comparison of products from different countries of production. In particular, the government is asked to work for a labelling scheme that shows the level of antibiotic use during production. ‘... The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Socialist Left have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e3289	President! The Christian People's Party will also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e3294	Then the Christian People’s Party also announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e3306	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to introduce minimum requirements for the use of Norwegian resources in the feed of the criteria for the New Norway label.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e3323	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. One, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a national animal welfare mark with specified quality criteria, which may be used for products with particularly high animal welfare standards.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e3359	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Pål Farstad on behalf of the Left and Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 3 by the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a ban on the sale and production of cage eggs in Norway by 2025 and to propose a conversion scheme for egg producers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e3388	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks to come back with an analysis of the consequences of a ban on caged eggs and proposals for strengthening animal welfare in the production and transport of poultry.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e3407	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Left and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size requests the government to introduce as soon as possible a labelling scheme in which cage eggs and food containing cage eggs are clearly labelled as ‘Eggs from cage hens/contains eggs from cage hens’.’» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e3452	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e3464	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e3472	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e3695	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–5, from Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 6, from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a new reindeer notification, with a broader factual basis and based on real consultations with the Sameting and the reindeer industry.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e3723	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the economic situation of women in pension and welfare schemes in the reindeer sector.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a comprehensive review of the reindeer management law, including the collective liability of reindeer management.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of well-established and clear instruments and sanctions by exceeding the established cut-off value and assess the introduction of a ‘bottom-down deduction’ to prevent reindeer operators from leaving the industry in the event of a reduction in the number of reindeer.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for guidance on how the reindeer industry is to be managed in co-existence with other industries.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The size of the land is requested by the government and can be used by the reindeer industry to assess whether areas that have been previously protected and used for reindeer pastures can be opened’.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e3756	The SV will vote in favour of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e3761	It is then that the Green Party and the Left Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e5226	First of all, the Committee's position on B III, C II, § 6-32, first paragraph, point (b) and C III. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e5241	President! I had to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e5246	Then the result is that 92 voted in favour and 3 voted against the setting – and the setting is therefore acceptable. The position of the Committee shall then be reviewed to A all Roman numerals, the rest of B, the rest of C and D, E, F, G, H, I, J and K with all Roman numerals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e5258	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e5268	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e5277	Case No. 8–12 concerns the second processing of law and deals with legislative acts 123 up to and including 127. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e5287	A total of two legislative proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of Right, Advance Party and Left proposal No 2, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: the legislative proposal should be filed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e5313	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: Under III, the following provisions are assumed to be amended as follows: the seventh and ninth paragraphs of Section 12 are not deleted. The eighth term remains the eighth term. § 19 shall be replaced by the following: § 19 Supervision The municipality and the county council shall supervise the holding of the claims in Sections 8 to 12. Paragraph 20, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: In order to ensure that the provisions of Sections 8 to 12 are complied with, or decisions taken pursuant to these paragraphs are implemented, the Ministry may impose the charge of liability.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e5345	The result is that 50 voted in favour and 48 voted against the proposal, and the proposal is therefore accepted. The legislative decision – together with the adopted legislative note – will be taken up to the third reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e5355	Case No. 14 is a second processing of the law and deals with Law Decree 129. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e5365	During the debate, Helge Thorheim put forward a proposal for a legislative remark on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: The following provisions of the EOS Control Act are expected to be amended as follows: Section 8 new fourth paragraph is replaced by the following: The Committee may not require transparency and access to particularly sensitive information in the Intelligence Service and the Police Security Service. In particular, sensitive information includes: (a) the identity of the human sources of the service and the specific protected officials of foreign partners; (b) persons and operational plans of the OCC; (c) the particularly sensitive foreign operations of the intelligence service and intelligence service of the foreign partners, which, by means of compromise, could seriously damage the relationship to foreign power due to the risk of the operation, or could lead to serious personal injury or loss of life. Paragraph 8 of the present fourth and fifth paragraphs becomes the fifth and sixth paragraphs. Paragraph 8, fifth paragraph, new third – fifth sentence, is replaced by the following: In the event of disagreement between the service and the selection of the right of access following the fourth paragraph, the head of the service may decide to suspend the transparency of the issue. The service brings disagreement to the department concerned. If the Minister concerned does not instruct the service of transparency, the sample shall bring the matter to the decision of the Grand Duchy. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e5388	The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e5396	Case No. 16–20 is the second reading of the law and deals with the legislative decisions 131 to 135. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-16.ana.ud223e5412	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It hasn't happened.
