ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e57	The representatives Marianne Aasen and Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Trond Giske on parental leave from 27 March to 7 April from the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representative Eirik Sivertsen from 28 March to 31 March to take part in the Arctic Conference in Arkhänsk, chaired by the Government Delegation for Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation, On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the county of Nordland: Tone-Helen Toften 28-30. March For South-Trundellag County: Gunn Elin Flakne March 27-6. April
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e105	The representative of Sveinung Rotevatn will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e110	On behalf of the representatives of Terje Breivik, Pål Farstad, Ketil Kjenseth, Iselin Nybø and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal to strengthen social rights for self-employed entrepreneurs. In addition, I would like to put forward a representative proposal on public security and responsible dogkeeping.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e117	The representative, Mr Andersen, will also put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e122	On behalf of the major representatives of Kirsti Bergstø, Heidi Greni, Marit Arnstad, Stein Erik Lauvås and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to draw up and present a separate report on Southern Sami language, culture and nutrition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e127	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e132	On behalf of the representatives Knut Arild Hareide, Olaug V. Bollestad, Anders Tyvand, Geir Jørgen Bekkewold and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on several measures to protect children from pornography.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e137	Rasmus Hansson will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e143	President, it has to be postponed, because I forgot to bring it!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e148	But it is that our excellent secretary has this up here, so the representative has to come up and present it. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e153	What would the Green Party do without the presidency?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e158	No, we've been wondering! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e163	On behalf of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e168	The representative, Mr Ketil Kjeseth, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e173	On behalf of myself, I am pleased to make a proposal for outpatient adjustment of activity aids for children and follow-up at a distance.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e178	Liv Signe Navarsete will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e183	On behalf of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Trine Skei Grande, Knut Arild Hareide and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal to secure the own helicopter capacity of the Army and to extend the main base for helicopters at Bardufoss.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e188	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e210	The President will draw attention to the fact that we are going to decide that this proposal can be dealt with. The position of the case under consideration has not been beyond the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours, but on the basis of Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. No objection seems to have come against the President's proposal. – It is then deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e227	It is almost two years since the Great Council, by a large majority, adopted the near-police reform. A broad political alliance with the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left agreed that the reform was and is absolutely necessary. 22 July and the conclusions of the Gjørv Commission formed a gloomy rug. Police preparedness capabilities needed to improve. In addition, police analysis showed several weaknesses. It was developing an a- and b-police, where police services were different in different parts of the country. Centralisation was seen, with more and more resources and competences benefiting the large police districts and special agencies, at the expense of medium-sized and small police districts, and the analysis showed that the police were not organised to meet future crime challenges. In addition, both society and crime had changed. Thus, through a broad and good political process and in cooperation with police organisations, the Stortinget adopted a necessary and over-ripe reform. This matter concerns a proposal from the Central Party concerning the reform process and the content of the reform. I thank you for your cooperation with the committee, and I will return to our vote. It was clear to everyone involved in the negotiations, debates and the decision on the reform of the police that, although the reform is urgently needed, the process would be demanding. It was quite obvious to everyone who participated. Now we're in the middle of the most demanding phase. The local structure shall be determined. Without comparing the largest organisational development process, the police shall carry out their important social mission. It is then up to a common political responsibility to ensure the necessary stability and predictability to the police, not least now when it blows. It increases the security of the community, it improves the security of society, and it enables the police to develop better services for citizens. We are now starting to get the first results of the reform. In Hallingdal, the patrols are doubled, and the police can gather force in Hemsedal. It's important now in the season. The police are crystal clear that this effort is precisely due to the reform. In Malvik and Stjørdal, there are now several operative police officers, after they have merged their officers' offices. These are some examples. There will be more, and there will be many good examples of the effects of this reform. Cooperation between police and local authorities is central to the reform. Crime prevention, community development and security shall grow out of this cooperation and the reform shall facilitate this. The central party voted against the reform. They are now promoting a proposal that concerns the reform, but I still do not see any sign – in this case either – of what is the Central Party's alternative to a completely necessary reform. Finally, on the vote: the Right and the Advance Party are promoting their minority proposals. We consider our proposal No. 2 as an alternative to I and will vote against I. We are voting in favour of Left's loose proposals in this case, which we consider an alternative to II. We vote in favour of III. We are voting against IV, as we consider to be protected by III, and we are voting against V, as we also regard this as covered by our proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e244	The President then considers that the representative Anders B. Werp has taken up the proposals he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e249	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers for promoting this draft representative on how we are to make sure that the government is following up on the intentions of the implementation of the police reform, as a broad majority in the Stortinget in 2015. The aim of the police reform was to develop a close police force that has all the police tasks and is operational, visible and accessible to the population — an effective and competent close-up police force that is present for the population where you live and live. At the same time, it is necessary to develop a multi-disciplinary and multidisciplinary professional environment equipped to meet today’s and tomorrow’s crime challenges. Strengthening local police and the development of professional environments is very important in order to develop a more competent police force that effectively prevents and combats crime while at the same time ensuring the security of citizens throughout the country. In the implementation of such reforms, it is entirely dependent on good processes and local involvement, so that a person creates legitimacy for the decisions taken. Therefore, the bulk of the population placed great emphasis on ensuring good participation of municipalities and employees in the local and regional processes that were to take place. In addition, in implementing changes in the service structure, the bulk of the population also clarified that police officers would draw up documents for the local government, if they themselves wanted to. The same majority was also concerned that the municipalities concerned would be given the opportunity to complain about changes in the service structure of the Ministry of Justice and Defence through decisions of the Municipal Council: ‘In appeal proceedings, the quality of the work on the desired final result submitted to the municipalities in advance and other factors relevant to the overall local availability of the police shall also be given priority. This is in addition to the criteria in Prop. 61 point 5.3. ‘... [[2014-2015]] The Labour Party has noted the feedback from many municipalities on the process of implementing the police reform. The short consultation period has been very demanding for the municipalities that have closed their offices and offices. The Labour Party considered that municipalities and organisations should have a real influence on the process before the Police Directorate’s final decision on the number of places of employment. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party, will stress the importance of employee organisations being consulted in line with the participation-related intentions of the Labour Environment Act and the Main Agreement. The Norwegian model is based on mutual respect for concluded agreements, so that the interaction between employee organisations, employers’ organisations and the public is taken seriously. The working party is committed to providing good services in the vicinity of the people living and living their lives. In line with technological developments in society, it would be natural to maintain decentralised services close to the public. The majority of the Committee is concerned that tasks such as: the issue of passports and weapons cards does not exceed 45 minutes for at least 90 pst. by the inhabitants. Finally, the majority of the committee, consisting of the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party, would stress that the local police force should be anchored. It constitutes the ultimate link of the police. Near-police is in most cases the area that the population encounters in situations that are threatening, dangerous and offensive. It is therefore essential that this section has the resources, competences and quality needed to be actively present where situations arise in society. Before discussing the proposals, I would like to refer to the Committee's recommendation to III, where the word 'principal agreement' has not been addressed to the 'principal agreement'. I address the proposals to which the Labour Party is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e278	The representative Jorodd Asphjell has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e283	Policy-making is not always a competition for popularity, but sometimes totally necessary, for a society is rarely static. A society that is changing means that organisations need to change to meet the social change that is coming. If not, as politicians, we do society a bear service. That is why I believe that a reform like this is necessary, in the same way that police reform in 2000 was necessary. And that's the way to be careful about change, you can defend, but the consequence of it can be something else than what you wanted. That is why I think what the majority said when a decision was taken on the reform not long ago is still bearing fruit. Then I took the freedom to go back and look a little bit at the story behind. Last night I read the position of the then judicial committee on the police report, which was dealt with in this Chamber eleven years ago. There, Stortinget had quite a lot of clear, good comments in view of the expectations they had. I take the freedom to refer to some of the things that the then Justice Committee said. One of the things that was taken up was response time. It is now in place and is one of the requirements of the new reform – of course, it should be lacking! But it's taken us eleven years to get to that stage that we're saying that the police, as well, as the biggest blue light attack, have to meet some demands here. In addition, the Committee said that ‘obligatory cooperation between the police and individual municipalities’ should therefore be established. Yes, we do. Once again, the interaction between the police and people living in the municipalities is an absolute necessity for good solutions. And it was said in the committee as follows: ‘The seat of police and officers shall be characterised as a more service-oriented, public-oriented and cost-effective establishment.’» It is also absolutely relevant today to do things the best possible way, a smartest way, so that you can serve the audience in a way that gives the most return for the tax money we choose to use and allocate to the Norwegian police. So I think it's fun to see that some of the things we're discussing today are absolutely relevant and well recognizable. Does that mean we're going too slowly ahead? It's a question for the individual to ask himself, but I think it's been eleven years since we dealt with this message, and we're discussing the same things today, but also with references to being skeptical about reforms. So this debate came about. five or six years after police reform 2000. A majority of the committee at the time, the members of the Labour Party, the Right and the Socialist Left, noticed that ‘the evaluations show that the reform has been successful’, so even though there was great scepticism when we went from 54 to 27 police districts, the majority said they are tolerably satisfied. It's not easy, but the majority have concluded that we've achieved some of the things we wanted, and that's why it's perfectly legitimate to do it the way you've done it. So there's a couple more things that I think are important. Technology was discussed at the time. Now we've come so far that some of the police vehicles have iPad, you do things right now, on the spot, to make things more efficient and faster. It's been a big deal about "Dark Room" and how we're going to handle it. In 2006, the Justice Committee said, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of ‘The Committee considers it important to provide the police with competence and methods to monitor and intervene in relation to illegal activity on the Internet’, which was the concept we used at the time. Further: ‘The police’s ability to prevent and combat crime through Internet control and presence should be investigated and further developed.’ Again: This is equally relevant today. Does this mean that the police are moving slowly, or does it mean that we as a magnificent spend too much time getting to where we want to be, and where the police themselves will certainly do better than they have been able to do? The answer will probably vary depending on who you choose to ask, but I don't think making the necessary changes is not showing respect for the society you're set to represent. Not providing the police with the resources to do that particular job, to maintain the link with the audience, is the exact same thing. And in this setting, the term "closer police" is used. Not only once, but time and time again, the previous reform shows that the Norwegian police role should be close – and close to the public – to bear fruit. It is also the aim and ambition of the last adopted police reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e309	I would also like to start with the back cover for the reform. It is important to stress why it was important to implement a police reform. One thing is to point out on 22 July, the Gjørv Commission and all that work and the documents behind it, which were clear that changes had to be made, but also before there was agreement that a person had to undergo a new reform in the police. With regard to the history of the reform, the Christian People's Party chose to engage in dialogue with the government parties and the Left to try to reach an agreement on a police reform. We couldn't, and the proposition was presented by the government parties and the left. But together with the Workers' Party, we entered into a compromise in the Stortinget, and the points we were particularly pleased with were that we got into the reform, that there should be a police contact in every municipality, that is, the presence in every municipality, that there should be good political processes, good processes with the police, where one should discuss the future – whether one should still have a lenner's office, or whether one should find better coverage, and that one should get a good foundation politically. It wasn't just because we were busy with the most possible loner office, we were concerned that a local does a very good job. The fact that one of the local authorities, with the rapporteur and the councillor, has a good dialogue with the police, we also believe that we will provide a better preparedness and a better police force. Then we were concerned that if it were to be laid down, it had to be ultimately a political decision, and therefore also appeals to the Ministry of Justice, and that the Minister of Justice should have the last words to the seventh and last. In addition, we raised important points that go on culture and leadership, because it is a crucial piece and also part of it for which there was criticism against the police, before the reform. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a difference between whether there is a police presence in a municipality or not. It's good that there's a local connection, it's good that the police have knowledge of what's going on. It can be ensured through a lenner's office, but in some cases it is better that one has police patrols, because one does not have the capacity in one office to provide a standby or prevention in the same way as one might think that the lenner could in his time. There, I would also like to stress that police work on the ground is absolutely crucial, and the evaluations of it are very positive. For our part, we have also been concerned with all the services that can be provided, we point out in the setting of civil tasks – that there must not be too long travel distances with regard to weapons cards, passports and such things, but also the possibility to report online or make other types of enquiries to the police easily online, so that it will make it easier for the public. Another of the important reasons why we are implementing the reform is the stronger the research environment. The fight against violence and abuse, which is, of course, the biggest social problem we have, is getting better when we get a better environment to investigate. ‘Near police’ is a concept that can get a little bit worn in between. When is the police close? Behind the curtains of the house where you don't have the opportunity to see what's happening, where there are flooders, where there are downloaders that you can't see, but that you can take through good actions, like 'Dark Room', or others, like, actions – where it's important to get close and discover and do an important job. ‘Near’ also means having a civil character on the police, which is important to us — that there is not too much distance between people and the police, as it is, for example. in the United States. Taking care of that piece is also important to us. As far as the reform is concerned, we have also been concerned that a person is getting a good time to carry out the good processes that I had in mind. In my opinion, it was too short a time before the decisions were made, and I believe that there should have been a better time in the aftermath of the complaint. And when one implements such an important reform, I also think it is important to make recordings as a sheep en route. In particular, two studies have now been carried out which show quite considerable opposition in the police themselves. Listening to them, listening to employees, which we point to in one proposal, and also listening to the important input of the municipalities, we believe is important in order to get the best possible reform. This is the intention of the agreement, this is the intention of the reform. This could create a police force capable of both taking the extremely complex tasks required by the crime scene and its changes, while at the same time being able to fulfil the important task of being present, preventing and active in order to create as much crime as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e328	The President shall assume that the representative shall make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e333	I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e339	The representative, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, then mentioned the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e344	Police reform is in an implementation phase. Such horrors can be good – and they can be less good. Although the Centre Party was committed to another police reform, with less emphasis on structural changes and more on content and good services throughout the country, we are concerned that the implementation of the adopted police reform should be as good as possible. Police are too important to lose important things because of a bad process. We have recorded that many members of the police and many local populace have expressed that the process is not good enough, and that there is reason to fear that the reform will produce a bad result for the police action itself, and not least for the citizens. We then found it necessary to present a proposal for a representative on precisely the police reform in Stortinget. This is the proposal we are discussing today. The centre party did the right to raise the matter back to Stortinget. The fact that the other party has been on some of our proposals and also made own suggestions is a clear sign of this. This reform is not entirely right, to put it simply. There is too much going wrong, and the size must give the government a direction in several points. We in the Center Party are concerned to ensure that local authorities and members of the police are heard and that they really get involved in the decision-making process. At this point, the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party now stand with us in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on a proposal for a decision in which we ‘provides the government with a significant focus on the opinion of each local authority to maintain the local authority’s office, in order to ensure, inter alia, good prevention and presence’. Once the government was well pleased to have a broad majority on the Grand Council for this police reform, they should now take on board the fact that the party that voted in favour of the reform is giving such a clear signal of a change in course. Not least, they should listen when the majority in the Committee agrees with our proposal for a decision that the government must: ‘provide for the real strengthening of the officers’ offices that remain after the implementation of the police reform’. This is not to be misunderstood. Here, one cannot accept the previous clear statement made by the police director, that the smallest offices that exist after the reform has been completed cannot expect any reinforcement, perhaps the opposite. If it was a point to have a wide plurality behind the reform, it should be a point to listen when the party that was part of the reform in Spring 2015, now matches the Central Party at such a point. Another theme that we're concerned with is the civil tasks that the police have, such as printing weapons cards and passports. There is reason to be concerned about this particular case, because there may be large or very large distances for large sections of the population to get a new passport. The hard Rivers from the Right are of those who have almost made fun of this problem, because people seem to have to pass only every ten years and have to take a while to get it. I choose to listen more to police than to the Right Party in this case. What I get on my right when I visit the County Council, is that they want to keep passports, both for themselves and for the inhabitants. And they point out that this isn't a service people only need every ten years. Families with more than one child will like this. had to obtain new passports reasonably often, and I think it is quite remarkable if we are not to facilitate in 2017 that all remaining LEN offices and police stations should be able to print passports now that there will be almost 130 fewer offices than before. The distance between people and the police is increasing anyway with this reform, and the government of my distance is going to increase even more when it comes to issuing passports. In the March issue of the magazine Politiforum, which appeared today, it appears that only half of the spokesmen in municipalities who have closed their county offices, think that the process has been open and transparent, tidy and real. The majority of these speakers disagree that they have been heard. In the past, the Police Forum has also published the results of an investigation in which 6,000 police officers replied — which gave a very clear picture of a low level of confidence in this police reform. What can we then read from the committee position on the trust in police reform among those who participated and adopted it in 2015? We in the Center Party have at least been confirmed that it was important to take matters back into the Storting. Even the government party finds it necessary to clarify that the reform must actually be in line with the Storting intention at the time of the reform. I take this into account the proposals of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e374	The representative Jenny Klinge has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e379	For the Left, it is always important in the follow-up to the police reform to remember why we actually entered into an agreement. It's to follow up the deficiencies that were revealed on July 22, while at the same time bringing the police back to people's daily lives. But let me start by recording the suggestions of the left. The impression has been made that the ongoing appeal process only concerns the process of the decision to close a County Court. That's not right. The size has said that a complaint can be made about the process, but Stortinget has also set up a number of criteria against which the municipalities can complain, if these are not fulfilled. In addition, the Contracting Parties agreed on a wording allowing the Minister of Justice to exercise discretion when ultimately deciding on these complaints. As the majority of the committee appears to have a need to state that it is not only the process that can be complained about, we have chosen to promote a distributed proposal. The text of the proposal is correctly drawn from the agreement between the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and I therefore believe that this proposal is something that all these parties can support. I also think this wording is a good wording, and that it is most neat to point out what we have agreed on. In the case of civil services such as passports and weapons cards, this service is important for people, and it is important that it is well accessible to people. We will vote in favour of the proposals of the government parties on this point for various reasons. Accessibility is not just about how long it takes to drive to the nearest place of employment. It's also about being able to order time in advance, so you don't have to sit in line when you get to the police station/member's office. And it's about that it's open in the evening, so you can do this outside of working hours. For some people it's also about Saturday open, so that they can gather the whole family and get this arranged for everyone on the same day. A limit of 45 minutes' travel will also mean that a number of service locations will have to stop issuing passports and weapons cards, without any reason other than that it is less than 45 minutes to another place where this service can be performed. This will not necessarily lead to good accessibility for the population. The debate shows that there is a need for the Stortinge to take a closer look at this. That is why we want the government to come back to Stortinget with a plan for how to provide such services. We expect such a plan to show the travel time for the population, whether it is scheduled to be ordered in advance, whether there are days of evening opening, etc. We also expect such a plan to describe the challenges of data security and the requirements of personnel performing such services. It is also possible that some of these services could be provided by others in the future, for example: in relation to a municipality’s service square. In the future, it is also possible that such services can be carried out by means of portable machines, so that they can be carried around and that, for that reason, all can have the service carried out at the nearest service point. We expect the police to press the break button now, and that these services will not be centralised until the Stortinget has dealt with the matter. When we stand in the middle of a demanding reorganization of the police, it is sometimes easy to lose sight of the reason why we are doing this. As I also mentioned earlier, the background is, among other things, the reports after July 22, which showed that we were not equipped to deal with such violent events in a way that we both want and expect. Then, too, this reform is about building environments of competence on heavy and complicated crime, such as violence in close relationships and abuse. In the future, it will be one of the prime tasks of the Minister of Justice to carry out the Grand Duchy’s mission to change the police in a way that strengthens the environment of expertise in heavy and complicated crime, while at the same time releasing police force to carry out prevention and investigation in the local communities — and to bring the police back to people’s daily lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e402	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, then mentioned the proposal he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e407	Since it seemed to be humiliating in this debate that a little move into the history of its party with regard to the police reform, I should also do it, quite briefly. We took part in the negotiations on the reform, in fact all the way to the end, with a view to becoming a few on a common approach, but finally chose to stand outside. There are many important things that lie in the police reform, improving research, taking an example, and there are structural changes that make sense as well, but in sum we thought, paragraph 1, that there was too little involvement of power at the elected level, both the municipalities in the complaint process and at the top, politically, in dealing with complaints about the changes that were to happen, and, paragraph 2, that there was too much centralization in total. So we chose to stand outside. Then I would like to pay tribute to the representative of the Klinge and the Central Party to bring this matter before the Stortinge. I think she has triggered a dynamic and a setting that, after all, gives some signals in the further work on the reform. For the SV part, we will support proposal No. 5, from the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, to improve the real appeal possibilities that lie here. I am also concerned that it seems very difficult to have a real impact on this for actors who failed in all of this with significant knowledge of their territory, and I think it stands out as a reasonable strengthening of it. I see the Left's proposal as a weaker version of the same, so we'll vote subsidiaryly for it. Then we're going to support proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, about a 45 minute distance limit for 90 pst. by the population when it comes to civil tasks such as passports and weapons cards. This is a kind of limit that we know from other services we have within the public. I think it makes sense that there is a limit on how far away it should be. So we know that with the geography in this country, the limit cannot be absolute, but it seems that it will take a reasonable height for how it can still set some limits in significant parts of the country for centralization. So we're going to go against proposal No. 6-10, from the Center Party. Let me put it briefly: on several of the points here, I can say that we can share the intention to this extent, that there should be well-accessible fixed services based on the offices we have around the country. I agree with that. Anyone with children, who has grown up over the years, knows that ten years is far from the real frequency given the need for new passports. I still think that the proposals go very far in saying that it must be exactly as today in the future, for example. that all places that today can print weapons cards should be able to do so, or that all officers' offices should be able to print passports. There are two reasons for that: firstly, there may be strong arguments that over time it will actually change, or that there may be reasonable exceptions to it. To what Elvesuen said, and based on personal experience, I would say that several of the things he mentions, such as opening hours, the possibility to order, the part hours you can order on very short notice, etc., are the most important thing. The second argument is that I think we're a good enough part of what the Storing should be careful to decide exactly and in detail what to do. There are, after all, heavy professional issues, where there may also be arguments over time that priorities and thinking will change. So we're going to vote against those proposals, but for those proposals that give you a direction of how far you're going to go, and how to better secure the real influence of the local government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e418	The Green Party voted against the so-called near-police reform because we believe it is important to reform parts of police activities in line with new challenges, but at the same time it is so important that the police are close and present in the local environment in a way that provides security and awareness in those environments, and that the scheme set out in the original proposal did not adequately observe this. That is why we are pleased that the Central Party has addressed this proposal for a representative, and we are pleased with some of the individual proposals that may now have a majority in this Chamber – of the kind of 90 pst. the population shall have no more than 45 minutes until the police carry out their civil duties, i.e. the Workers' Party and the proposals of the Christian People's Party. We believe that this type of action makes sense. A police service that is firmly anchored in the local environment has legitimacy and trust, and that is the trust and the knowledge the police have to build quite a lot of their authority on. Then the municipalities must be allowed to mean something – and not so little – about the tasks that the police have to do, and how it is to be organised. We are in a situation now where 72 municipalities have submitted complaints to a new local organisation. The lynch community fears that the police service will be further distanced and that it is unclear what will be the content of future services in their area. Salangen municipality believes they have not been heard in the process. The municipality of Nannestad believes that the near-police reform has been a centrally controlled process, involving at least the users of police services. Ski and Oppegård municipalities believe it has been difficult to accept that the geographical breakdown is not part of the decision of the directorate that can be appealed against. The municipality of Storfjord considers that they have not received a prior opinion, as such a serious procedural and administrative error that the whole process needs to be reversed, if necessary, in terms of the content of each place of employment. It is therefore that many municipalities in this case feel poorly heard. There is a bad basis for both reform and police work, and we know that a lot of police are of the same opinion. People must be able to be heard in disagreement about where police stations and county offices should be located. The police officer of the Inland finally did so, after hundreds of ring sacs had gone on torches to keep the Länsmannskontoret in Brumunddal. That is why we assume that II in the vote, for which we are going to vote, also includes review, and that is also why we do not vote in favour of proposal No. 11, from the left, which probably has some of the same intention, but which is so unclearly formulated that we refrain from supporting it in this round. Around the country there will be police officers who can carry out police community missions. It is therefore to carry out preventive, enforcement and ancillary activities and is part of society’s overall efforts to promote and consolidate the legal security, security and general well-being of its citizens. It's a responsibility that needs to be taken seriously, everywhere in the country. It is not acceptable that people in District Norway feel that they have a lower offer in this particular area, although we obviously agree at the same time that practical adaptations to a modern type of challenge must also be made. When the Nord-Trøndelag police district in 2015 examined the expectations people had for the performance of the police community mission, and what people were paying attention to, there was local knowledge and regular contact persons who were two of the main findings. One of the main findings was that people wanted crime prevention work, that is, local prevention is something that requires knowing local challenges well, and that you have to be familiar with the local environment. In Norway, we have a very great value, a police service with a clear civil and unarmed mark, which has great confidence in the population. It's a value that's been anchored in the fact that people know their police locally, and we must continue to take care of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e433	An existing and capable police force is essential for the security of the city and built throughout Norway. When crime changes, the police and the county council must renew itself. The crime we see today is much more mobile than before, and, not least, where crime previously occurred physically and locally, is happening very much of the crime today digitally. Today, the ID thief can sit in Oslo and the victims in Alta and in Hallingdal. Today, the fraudster can sit in India and the victim in Norway. Today, the perpetrator of online abuse can sit in Bergen while the child is in Asia. At the same time, we need to ensure closeness between the police and the public in local communities across the country. Proximity includes: presence through active police contacts and a mobile police force ready for immediate action. The trust in the Norwegian police is very great. I don't like to hear Norwegian police being mentioned in negative terms. Every day, more than 16,000 Norwegian police officers carry out good and faith-building work to ensure a safe Norway. Now that we are at the heart of the implementation of the police reform, it is about ensuring that in the years to come we also have a police force that ensures a safe Norway. Police must be where crime takes place, be visible in the communities and have resources, not least, to deal with development. Connecting resources in well-managed offices in the daytime is not the best way to solve the police's most important tasks. With good intelligence and analysis, the police can be more strategic. It was a broad agreement in the Grand Duchy that laid the foundations for the reform of the police. The size decided on a comprehensive process for the involvement of municipalities in the design of a new local structure. The police directorate has informed me that all municipalities have been offered to participate in steering groups. In some places, several municipalities have chosen to be represented through regional councils or similar cooperation forums. The municipalities have been granted the right of appeal to the Ministry of Justice and Security of the Directorate of Police's decision on the structure of services. In the context of the review procedure, the Ministry takes the lead in such matters as: is given in Prop. 61 LS for 2014-2015 and Innst. 306 S for 2014-2015. In addition, the rules of the Administrative Act also apply. Section 7 of the regulation. The participation of employees in the reform process is regulated in the contract work between the social partners. The establishment of HR staff in each police district is significantly enhanced by expertise in the co-determination institute. There is a separate POD department that also assists the districts. The size has adopted a number of quality requirements for police services. Prevention shall be given a significant boost with stronger leadership anchoring, better plans, more structured cooperation with municipalities and other key actors. All municipalities should have at least one police contact, and I am very pleased that the police director has now informed the police officers that all police contacts should be in place by 15 June at the latest. The Police Council must be further developed in such a way that it works well throughout the country. The draft representative also proposes that all offices and police stations should be able to issue passports. The National Audit Board has identified a number of security challenges related to passport issuance and specific competence requirements are set for personnel to issue passports. Yes, I agree that the passport issue should be posted in such a way that it is available to the public as much as possible, but I also think it must be allowed to say at the same time that we cannot afford to have a passport issue that is not safe, and thus in the next round puts the trust and legitimacy of the passport at risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e448	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e453	When dealing with and adopting matters here in the Storting, which has a broad majority behind it, the Council of State has a special responsibility for following up in a good way. The representative of Ellingsen, who is the party trap of the Council of State, has not been concerned about being popular, he said in the pulpit. I guess you can also notice that in the last polls. This is, of course, not a popular reform, but a police reform to ensure people's security in everyday life. We record that the feedback from the police and the municipalities are very negatively linked to this with involvement in these processes and participation in what is going to happen. My question to the Council of State is: How will the Council of State follow up ensuring the effective involvement of the police and local authorities in the implementation of the reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e462	There have been good follow-up to the municipalities, in cooperation with the municipalities – it also shows the figures we have received – in the process towards the new structure on which the Police Directorate has based. We will continue to take care of these considerations too, but I think that if you think that implementing reforms is necessarily an application for popularity, it's usually not like that. I also think the Workers' Party should take that on board. To the extent that you support a very important reform, you might have to think about whether it is the political realities that are the most important, or getting good results on gallopes. I think we as proper politicians have to think about the first and not necessarily choose to take the populist directions on each occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e468	I think the most important thing now is that one implements the reform in a good way, and that one takes the necessary steps to create the best possible police. As I said in my post, I believe that the best possible police force is, of course, the police who are going to lead the way, but in good dialogue with the municipalities. Now the decisions have been taken around a long way, and the municipalities have sent their appeals where they disagree with closure. As I have read the reform all the way, I believe that the majority and the conciliation made very clear the criteria that it was possible for the municipalities to appeal to more than the process. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice what things you cannot complain about, based on what is listed. We also said that one should pay attention to the complaints, especially if something was missing in the document that came from the police chief. My question is: why does the Minister of Justice, or the parties of the Minister of Justice, not want to support proposals where one says that all municipalities should have effective access to justice, and that considerable emphasis should be placed on the anchors coming from the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e473	I think that when a proposal is made in line with what is actually the basis of the agreement between the parties behind the police reform, it is very clear in its wording, in the sense that it is more than the process underpinned. Just to underline it, from my point of view, I have always assumed that it is more than just a process. I think it is a good thing if today the Storing underlines it further by adopting the same wording that has been used in the past in the police reform, in order to underline it further. But I have always used the wording that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy has put behind me.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e478	As I referred to in my article, the Police Forum today shows that many local authorities are not satisfied with the process towards a decision to close their offices. We have also received feedback from frustrated municipalities and spokesmen who have received a response from POD to complaints that they have sent, before the final complaint deadline is over, before the neighbouring municipalities have sent their complaints. So it's an inexhaustible process. What I think we can all be a few about, is that regardless of whether we're too closed or not, it's at least important that the process goes in such a way that the result doesn't get any worse than necessary, that one goes out with municipalities that are the most satisfied with the process. Does the Council of State now think it is reasonable to avoid these final decisions as quickly as possible, or does he consider slowing down the closures where the processes have not been right, where there have been criticisms, to ensure that the process continues to be done properly, and that the final decisions are made as best as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e483	I can assure the representative that we are most likely to run a proper and proper process, which is going to be more than just the process ahead. I am concerned that we are finding good solutions. So I think we have to take on board at the same time that it's like if you're in a situation where you lose a loner's office in your own municipality, it's hard to assume that you're basically positive to it. But then you have the opportunity to complain, and the complaints will be dealt with properly, and you're going to make different assessments than just the process of the work to be done in the ministry. This is, to the most extent, a real process, and in no way given what the result is, in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e488	I noticed that at some level it made a little impression on me to the right representative Amundsen warned against populism. I can invite him – if he wants to – to comment on should we understand it as a general warning against populism, or was it just for the specific proposal here we shouldn't be populistic? But to my question in addition to that: in the implementation of the police reform now, it has been demonstrated through investigations that there is still limited faith in important parts of it in the budgets. I have seen that Amundsen has taken it upon himself and understood that there is a great job to do in creating faith that there will be improvements through her. My question is simple: when a broad majority has agreed to a reform and the Council of State is going to put it into practice, who is responsible for it? Is it still a very low belief that it is going to go well in the levels of debt that are so important to our society?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e495	The President would point out that Per Willy Amundsen is still the Council of State and not the representative again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e500	I'm sorry, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e505	I think it is important to take on board a reform – and in a major and important reform such as the police reform – to take the signals that are coming. I believe that nothing is written in stone. I think it's wise always to listen to the loop messages you get. That is why we carry out the follow-up evaluation, carried out by Digi, which gives us feedback along the way, in order to adjust the process. As the Council of State, it is my responsibility to ensure that the reform is carried out, on the mission of the Storting – there should be no doubt about it. So I understand that many employees are aware of the uncertainty of their situation regarding the staffing process: Who will be my closest supervisor? What will be my future working day? It's a natural reaction. But then I think – I am really very sure – that as the results of the reform, the qualitative aspects of the reform, become clear, so will the opening up of the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e512	Governments are in a digital world. Then the Council of State can take away policemen on the ground who know the facts in practice. It's a clear parallel to what the government stands for when it comes to Homeland Protection: one doesn't need people on the ground. The government will replace the man in charge with a police contact, a man in charge of authority, a man in charge of the whole of his territory. A police contact is – as the word says – a contact. My question is: what does the Council of State say to rapporteurs who want to talk to police officers who have authority, who can make an appointment there and there – that is to say, to the public or to police officers and not to police contacts? Do such rapporteurs get their way?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e519	Police contacts will be a good system to take care of the municipality in its dealings with the police. I'm sure this will be a good solution. But then I listened to the rhetoric and reasoning of the representative Lundtigen. It is difficult to know anything other than that you are dealing with the police in a – let's say – not completely up-to-date way. The police's tasks are – quite correctly – more in the digital space than before, but it's not a either – or, it's a both – and. When we experience the widespread abuse of children on the Internet today, and where we may have just revealed the top of the iceberg, there should be no particular doubt that we need far more competence and concentrated efforts against this type of crime. We don't get that with the local loner, with all due respect. We need broad environments of competence, and that is exactly one of the objectives of the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e526	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e534	There is a demanding process of reform, and there is no competition to be popular. If it were, I think it would have been bad with more. What we need to do is listen to people, listen to the police and the police community, the municipalities, the spokesmen and other elected representatives, who say we need to adjust something on the course. I feel that the Central Party is now very constructive when it comes to police reform. I thought that was very good. I personally think that this has not always been the case. Then we should listen to the feedback we get. It's a little silly to say that figures from the Police Directorate show that the municipalities are happy. It is not the whole image, nor is it properly nuanced when reading it, for example. Police Forum. Therefore, it is good that we propose today, and that there is a number in the Committee to strengthen participation in the process. I think that's important to get the best possible end result. There's one thing we don't talk about when it's about local service structure, and that's one of the most important considerations, you ask me, because we're in this equation. It is now possible for the municipalities to make a written agreement with the police officer in his police district on how the changes will benefit their municipality. The problem is that what we decided in the agreement is a little too few municipalities that are aware of. And who's responsible? It's the Minister of Justice's responsibility. I expect the Council of State to follow up the Police Directorate and the police districts, so that this is implemented. My municipality, Tokke, has made such a decision – on a proposal from the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party – with clear demands as to what one expects to get in his municipality when the Länsmannskontoret is most likely closed. That decision was taken last November. The municipality has not heard anything from the Police Directorate or the police officer. It's too bad. Here we have a municipality that has done the job and is trying to be constructive to get a better police service, and then they don't get any feedback. There's only one example, but I know there's more, and that's too bad. As a party involved in a settlement, we're going to be extremely concerned that the settlement is being followed. This reform has not been submitted by the Labour Party. We've said that a lot of times, we think she might have looked a lot better if we had made the proposition. But the changes that we have made, we are happy that we got, and then they have to follow up, so that the municipalities in the country actually know what they have to do, so that they know what they can demand, so that the service really gets better. I would like the Council of State to respond to that in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e547	It is interesting that the representative Vågslid thinks that the Central Party is acting so constructively at the moment when it comes to police reform. I am very familiar with the Central Party's desire to reverse this reform and lay down the Police Directorate. Jonas Gahr Støre was exemplaryly ready for this in the VG on 13 March, where he said that it was not at all relevant to reverse the police reform. The Labour Party is behind, they take responsibility for the continuation, as they did when we dealt with this reform in Stortinget. Gahr Støre was ready, the head of the Justice Committee, Hadia Tajik, was, however, somewhat cryptic when she spoke about the same thing to NTB on 17 February. There was a reason why the Workers' Party was behind this when we dealt with the reform. The need for changes in the Norwegian police force was documented. The Gjørv Commission pointed out that we have a police force that was unable to cooperate with itself, and the police analysis pointed out that the organisation of the Norwegian police was an obstacle to the development of the Norwegian police. Now the positive results of the police reform are drawing on ongoing ties. But I think that's reason to remind us that police reform is not just about organizing and reorganizing. It is also about using new technologies, conducting on-the-spot investigations and completing on-the-spot investigations. The police have used both the iPad and the iPhone and are now investigating many more issues on site. I would like to mention not least knowledge-oriented police work. The police sit on very good data when crime happens – about who commits crime, and about where it happens – they tune their own organization, so that the police are present when the demand for them is there, after crime has taken place. These are two important elements of the police reform that are partly under-communicated. So to the representative Jenny Klinge, it seems that every county office and police office in the Central Party world should do the same, almost like generalist municipalities. It is not a manifestly sensible organisation of work, rather an expression of a lack of work distribution. There is no reason for both Länsmann’s offices to operate on passport issues where two Länsmann’s offices are relatively close to each other. This is called ‘work distribution’ and it is done in any organisation. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the Committee's recommendation to Roman numeral I in the setting: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the leaders of the Great Britain are followed up and to ensure that the offices are sufficiently staffed to be actively present where people are.’ "Where people are" is probably where people live, I think. When we know that 80 pst. of the population of Norway, living at 0,26 pst. of the area, the logical consequence of this proposal might be that it leads to a large-scale centralization that we've never seen in the Norwegian police.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e571	The Labour Party supports the intentions behind the police reform, but we are critical of its implementation. So we've heard in this room that part of the criticism that was raised for implementation is populism. But we're not alone in being critical. Many policemen are, too, and the police forum has conducted an investigation where two out of three policemen don't think Norway will be safer after the police reform, and four out of five don't think the police will come closer to people. So then I almost have to ask, are these police also populists? The diffi report, which systematically goes through the results of the police reform so far, also demonstrates a great deal of anxiety and uncertainty. Then I have to ask you, is diffi populists? One must be able to accept criticism and listen to it, evaluate it and make the adjustments. Had the Workers' Party been overthrown, we'd have done three things differently. The one thing is that we would give the implementation more time, ensured anchoring, ensured co-destination among those added to the police. For this reason, we have also suggested that the anchoring of the Main Agreement, the co-destination and involvement, must be much stronger, something we have received from the other parties, and we are pleased. The other thing we would have done differently, is about money. We would have given more money in implementing the reform. We have suggested this in an alternative state budget, but we have not been able to make a pass on it to the other parties. So the third thing we wanted to do is we wanted to put more emphasis on the content. We also promote in the context of the conciliation and the work on the proposal relating to content, research, culture and leadership that we are pleased to have achieved in others, but on which there must be greater pressure in the implementation of the reform. Now it's like we don't control, but we take responsibility in opposition. We take seriously the criticism that comes. We don't dismiss him as populism. It's not like we're just going and hoping that this will hopefully happen along the way, we're listening to spokesmen, to policemen and to diffi, and we're making the necessary adjustments – of civil services, of the availability of police force and of the co-determination of those added. The right hand side and the progress bar do not show a willingness to make the necessary adjustments. In its proposal No. 2, e.g., they ask the government to ensure that decisions are followed up. It's just supposed to be missing. The left has a suggestion where they do the same. I almost have to remind you that the government is obliged to implement decisions, so we have to assume that they do, otherwise they stop being a government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e584	The government uses July 22 as an argument to centralize, and that is a fundamental error. The description in the attitude of the Control and Constitutional Committee to the Gjørv Commission is that the most failed was the situation in the large units, in the Oslo Operational Centre. What failed the most was that when the amazing intruder in the Oslo police, Thor Langli, said to press the big button, the large operating centre was not contacted. That's where it failed. That is why the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and SV said that what is needed is a reform related to organisation, culture and management. That means you have to have enough people in the first line. They must be trained, equipped, communicate, and have more responsibility and authority, so that superiors listen to their advice. It doesn't matter to this government. The core of security is the services from the municipalities, from the Nav and from the police and that they are placed close to people. I have an example from the municipality of Rollag, a small municipality in Numedal with a budget of less than 1 million. kr. It's almost not crime, and it's a fantastic collaboration with the locals. The last thing is that it's a fantastic collaboration with the cabin population; there's 2,000 cabins in the municipality. This has led to the owner-of-house association asking for the lenght office in Rollag to continue – because the lenghtman is doing a fantastic job, and he is cheap. Then comes the proposal that this should be replaced by a police contact – a person who has no authority and with whom the rapporteur and others will sit and talk without being able to make agreements to get things done, as one can do to those who have authority. The center party is for people who have authority, who can make agreements there and then without too much fatter. The government puts up the opposite and fails what is the whole foundation of the security of society: people who have an overview of the territory, who can see the whole, who can interact with civil society. That's pretty dramatic, what's happening. The central party will work after the election to correct what is happening, in line with the will of the local government figures. We need police with authority. The answer is lentenmen out in the municipalities. Because they have that authority, and it knows people's quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e595	I notice that the parties behind the reform underlined that the closure of the Länsmannskontoret was to take place in a process with great emphasis on the involvement of those affected. It is also pointed out that municipalities should be able to appeal against decisions on changes in the structure of services. However, the appeal procedure did not concern the decision itself. It states that there are minimum requirements for the process and for the quality of the work that the Police Directorate has done, which it can complain about. It may not be so strange that the number of complaints has been relatively limited when the appeal procedure does not relate to the conclusion itself. I also notice quite self-satisfied comments from the Right and Advance Party, where they indicate that all Länsmannskontoret and local authorities have been offered the opportunity to meet in the steering group and to make recordings of a new structure. That's not how it's deleted. In the assumptions for the process, it was that the management group should have representation from the municipalities concerned. In practice, several police districts interpreted this to mean that only members of the regional councils were invited. We know that rapporteurs from several municipalities themselves had to look up Stortingen's comments in order to know what they were entitled to do and to take the initiative to sign up to the work of the Steering Group. When we look back today at how the process has been in many places, I am amazed that the government parties are satisfied with the process. The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party must take their share of responsibility for how the police reform has been carried out. I am pleased that in their own comments they have critical comments on the picture that the Right Party and the Advance Party are trying to draw. I have followed the implementation of the police reform in my own county, the South Trondelag, and have carefully recorded many critical comments on the process. The rapporteur, Mr Fröya, is one of those who have spoken most clearly. She says, ‘The Community has issued several hearing opinions, but is left with a view that the real influence in the process has been nearly zero. It is the municipality's clear belief that the decision to close the Frøya Länsmannskontoret has been taken in practice at a very early stage of the process A is also left with an opinion that the police district management has been not satisfied with the fact that Fröya Länsmannskontoret's employees have openly expressed their views on the reform process [[...]] [[...]] The near-police reform has never been undertaken as a reform that provides police services close to people. Nor has implementation been set up as an open process in which the lumbar lumbar throttle offices have, in fact, had an influence. The spokesperson of the Fröya Youth Council asks that the Länsmannskontoret should pass and says that local knowledge is important in order to promote prevention: «We have several cases where the police have come to the schools and taken off a conversation with students and residents who have made us more secure in the police [[...]] It won't be the same when the patrol car comes in now and then. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e618	The seat of police and officers shall ensure security, law and order. It is anchored in Section 1 of the Police Act, which states: «Member States shall provide the police service that society needs. The police service is provided by the police and officers seat. Police through prevention, enforcement and assistance activities shall be part of society’s overall efforts to promote and consolidate the legal security, security and general well-being of its citizens.’;» Is the police reform being closed down by following up on this? On Saturday 25 February, we were able to read in Oppland Arbeiderblad's newspaper about an event in South Aurdal where the locals had called 112 to inform about a car that had been observed in connection with a series of burglaries and burglaries in Hedalen. The car was headed towards the cabin area in Hedalen. After a series of burglaries and burglaries in South Aurdal, the suspect was seen by a car and a trailer on the way up to a cabin area. He had cars set up and blocked, and one called 112 to get the police up. The message from the emergency centre was that this would not be prioritised, even if the registration number was delivered and this was a registration number that did not belong to the car – it was a chair. One was only asked to dissolve. There was a notice that one of them would take this into their own hands, and one of them called a local police officer, who took action and didn't set up long after. These are the bad guys, and they don't feel like they have the same security anymore. ‘This is a clear depriority of the districts. Hedalen is an outcrop in Valdres, and South Aurdal has no police force anymore," says Kåre Helland in South Aurdal. They now experience an increase in the profitability, and they record that the police no longer move out when shoplifters are taken in the peach. This is the result of a co-location of all lumbarians' offices in Valdres to one office at the Fenres. It's in front of the police reform, and it's in front of what several districts are now going to experience. The Hedels feel that what is in Section 1 of the Police Act no longer applies. They feel that this does not take care of South Aurdal, and that they are now more remote from the police than they were before the co-location of the Valdres County Police Offices – something that is now to be done in several regions in connection with the so-called near-police reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e634	The Storting majority have adopted a police reform called the near-police reform. The police forum's recent investigation shows that only 3.9 pst. Of those asked in the police, they believed that the reform would ensure the presence of a competent and effective local police force where people live. The report from diffi is also speaking. It says the following: «[near-police reform] is of little significance [[...]] The central party believes that the police need a reform that not centralizes but provides better organisation, culture and leadership. I would like to draw attention to two proposals under consideration. First, to proposal No. 8, which reads: ‘The government asks the government to reverse the centralisation of police foreign administration in the first line.’ The centralisation of the foreign administration has been taking place for a number of years, and it has gone too far. In Hordaland, there is a service centre for foreign workers in Bergen. As a result, Odda Länsmannskontor lost responsibility for the administration of foreign affairs, and all seasonal workers in Hardanger – in the big fruit bastion, before hotel operations etc. – this means that you have to go to Bergen to get your papers ready and get a valid tax card. They must be gone one day, often in succession. I thought this government would simplify Norway. It is extremely bureaucratic and heavy and can also contribute to more undeclared work. So to proposal No. 4, which is a proposal with a good intention that civil tasks, such as weapons cards and passports, should not be longer than 45 minutes for at least 90 pst. by the inhabitants. What's weak about the proposal is that it doesn't define what to calculate these 90 psts. by default. One doesn't know if one should define it from the entire police district or from the county. I'll assume it's per police district. Then it's like in Hordaland County cages over 70 pst. by the inhabitants of the Bergen region. It's less than 45 minutes. If you take Sogn and Fjordane, there are not many Länsmann offices with passports and weapons control that you need for this rule to be applied. If you were to have a precise decision, which had actually meant something, which the Police Directorate had to comply with, you would have to have taken into account that it was going to be in force per county office. Otherwise, the Centre Party has submitted a health-care proposal to ensure that patients have access to emergency hospitals with trauma function if transport time to trauma centers exceeds 45 minutes. I hope for a plural for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e652	We are now in the process of a very necessary reform. We have great respect for the fact that there is uncertainty in the organisation. It's uncertain what this is going to end with: how will this be done? What kind of result will we get out? This is the case with most major organizational changes. Uncertainty creates doubt, and it creates great frustration. But most of the changes show that this is going to be good in the end. We can also look at many evaluations that have been carried out in retrospect – that the result is good. When the post offices were to be shut down in their time, there was a disturbance, especially from the Center Party, that it would upset the districts. I think maybe the closure of the post offices has created more lives in the districts. You can go to the post office on Saturday or at eight o'clock in the evening – at the store. Now there are many negative examples, but if you look, there are also many good examples of changing the police structure. Jan-Eirik Nordahl, rapporteur of the Workers' Party in South Reisa, said themselves that they were on torches to keep their Länsmannskontoret. Today they are very pleased: ‘We’ve got a visible and present police force that works both preventively and effectively.’ The history shows that this was good anyway. I think we who are sitting in this room and are going to make such important decisions, must dry up to think about what we want in the future. Remember what the crime scene is like. The neighborhood police of a youth sitting in his boy room surfing child pornography may not be the local loner's office that has no investigative skills. They have a gentleman who is there three days a week, but he does not have the competence to investigate what is actually happening in the boys' rooms. I think that we who are sitting here have to raise our eyes and think about what kind of crime is today and in the future, and how to arm our police to meet that challenge. That's why we're here today, that's why we're going to make the important decisions, and that's why the total, the large majority that was behind the near-police reform should also stand up for it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e668	I'm feeling that this debate is getting a little polarized, that it's now a little out of the way to the outer edge. I had not dared to say that in it and that municipality it is so to say not crime. We don't know. It's true, as was said from the previous speaker, that the crime scene is changing. There's a lot we don't see, and I think that all politicians and parties are busy fighting that kind of crime. So the question is, how do we do that? I think there are many small bilge workers' offices that do an absolutely brilliant job, but I also think there are small bilge workers' offices that do not. There are large bilge workers' offices that are really skilled at prevention, research, detection. There are large offices that are bad about it, and then let's see what we can do about it. Then I think we can't keep our eyes open and hope for the best and think that it'll be good in the end if we just wait long enough. It doesn't. We're forced to right and see and do something about it along the way. That's why I didn't think we in the Labour Party, or those in the Right Party and the Advance Party, should be so hurt. We have to admit that there may be something we should do a little better. Maybe not everything is perfect in this reform, and we don't have to be afraid to say it. Well, that's what I'm saying. We're behind the equation, but we're critical of the implementation because we already see that there are some pitfalls here, and we have to take care of them. Then I'm very busy with these written agreements that the municipalities are going to have to deal with their police officers, because I think they'll have a lot to say to the municipalities that are going to lose their county office. One has to know, how does the service get better? How many more patrol cars will we get? I expect that the Council of State will be happy to respond to the debate, because as it is now, it seems to be working very poorly. My claim is that that part of the settlement is not followed up, and I actually found it – almost – more important than the debate on complaint. Because we know that some people are going to be helped. The majority probably don't. In Telemark we have several examples: the municipality of Drangedal stood on the barricades, complained about the decision to shut down, and the county office was maintained. A new police evaluation was made. Great for Drangedal and very good for Telemark. But there will be municipalities that will not be included – that’s the fact – and then we have to do the job of making sure that the police service gets better. There's a responsibility for the Minister of Justice to follow up that piece of the deal, and I really want him to come up here and comment on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e685	I feel called to complete Mr. Grenis' posts. According to Wikipedia, the representative Greni comes from Ålen. Meg bekamt is Ålen in the municipality of Holtålen. By bringing together the police resources at the Holtålen Länsmannskontoret and the police station at Røros, one more police patrol has been managed. This seemed to the employees and the inhabitants of the area to be a glittering solution. This is really the essence of the whole police reform. When we know that we need 16 years' worth to put a patrol 365 days a year, i.e. two policemen in one car, and so many officers' and police officers' offices have few employees, it goes without saying that we can't get the effect of the force that we have in the police, which we could get if we drove this together in a more efficient way. This is what is now the main act of shutting down – or proposing to shut down – 126 Länsmannskontoret. The average number of employees in these 126 county offices is five. It goes without saying that by doing this grip you get more patrols, and it's actually a road that's completely unavoidable. Finally, I would like to remind the House that we have a responsibility to support the management of the Norwegian police in a very demanding phase when they are going to implement a reform that the Stortinget has adopted. That's good ownership. We have a responsibility to follow along, also to follow critically, but we have a responsibility to support the management of the building so that they have self-confidence and authority to implement a very important decision that the Storting has taken with very great support.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e695	Right-wing language is near-police reform. One wants to create the impression of proximity. Reality is the opposite. Now the representative Harek Rivers said that the essence of the reform was several patrols on wheels. Yeah, that's what people have come up with. So the representative insinuates that those who are currently sitting and connected to the janitor's offices are sitting in and doing nothing. I can assure you that those who are at these smaller loner offices are doing the good work. I think the representatives from the Right should now go out and talk to the police and former Right-lensmen – I stress: former Right-lensmen – of whom we in the Center Party are now meeting more and more. They don't recognize themselves in what the right is talking about. We are facing a cultural conflict, a cultural conflict between the Progress Party and the Right on the one hand, which will centralize, and the Centre Party on the other. It's strong to experience. There's talk about what's going on in the boys' rooms. It's a great advantage to get to grips with what's happening in the boys' rooms, that you have lieutenants and policemen who have good listening posts, who know their society, and who at an early stage can understand what's going on, before the damage is done. Police professionals say what you think about this. 65. Pst replied to the Police Forum's investigation that one disagreed with Norway's becoming a safer society. 85 pst. disagreed that the police will come closer to people. But that doesn't mean anything. What are police people's own assessments, doesn't mean anything to the bulk of the population. It doesn't mean anything to the police. It doesn't mean anything to the council. It refers to the degrees in which we are in. It refers to those degrees the need to focus on organisation, culture and management. It refers to the degrees that now one must soon begin to respect those who are in the field, but that does not happen. The center part does that. Therefore, more and more people are seeing that giving support to the Center Party is supporting the professional demands on which the police have to build. It makes us more excited, and it makes us a more powerful tool to do something about this centralization after the election. The Right Party and the Advance Party do a good job for us, but it has to be corrected after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e708	I don't know where to start. It's exciting to follow the debate, I have to admit it. As one of the proposers, I'm excited about what's going to happen. Then I am also excited, of course, about the vote and the outcome of the individual proposals today. But I want to mention some things that have been said along the way. The representative, Mr. Werp, said in his opening speech that the 22nd of July Commission was creating a gloomy backbone for this police reform. It would be interesting to hear what it is about this reform that would have made the prevention and, not least, the management of the terror that took place on 22 July 2011 better if the reform had been carried out before that time. It is implicitly in what Mr Verp says that if this reform had been carried out before that, the outcome could have been different. I did not find anything in the Gørv report that provided such a conclusion. There was nothing in the Gjørv Commission's report that said there were massive structural changes that needed to get better preparedness for that type of event. I mean, this type of rhetoric has been repeatedly abused – both today and in recent years – to justify this police reform. So, we don't have any idea what this option is. We may have been too poor to communicate it, but we actually have 18 police districts – instead of 12 – as a proposal. In concrete terms, we want to keep the cannon offices. It's a real option. We want to keep a lack of lumbar carnivores, but instead of starving them, we want to strengthen them. We have shown that in all the alternative state budgets that we have come with. When it comes to new research methods, on the city and in the police cars around it, it is of those things that could be fully capable of implementing without having massive structural changes in the building. That's what the police say. A police reform is not necessary to achieve this. So here it's misunderstood that the Center Party is backwards. On the contrary, we want a right to the future, a good police force for the whole country, and we hope, of course, that more people in the Chamber today are in favour of the good proposals that we have. So I want to boast by the representative Lene Waogslid, who comes with the attitude that here we must both get criticism and tolerate getting criticism, right on it and see if one can do things better. I like that setting. Although we disagree about the reform, it is precisely such a setting as to make the result the best possible. To that end, Kjersti Top has a very good point in saying that the government with this reform is not exactly driving people's simplification. The education manager in the first line is an example, and the pass editor is another one. The newspaper Hallingdølen mentioning that there could be 40 miles to go. 90 pst. The population has to have a maximum of 45 minutes, but remember, 500,000 can have 40 miles. Lell is the requirement of the proposal of the plural.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e725	This has gradually become an interesting debate. In a way, it reminds me of for or against a reform in general. Fortunately, some of the last speakers have said that this is not the topic. I became a member of the Justice Committee in 2001, when the previous reform got out, and I have the pleasure of hearing someone who wants to go back to 54 police districts, at least. That you did the right thing that time and reduced from 54 to 27, was right. I think history will show that the grips you're doing now are going to be right, under some assumptions. The premise is that people out there feel safe. Then I can't stop commenting on the representative of Oddes, who referred to the police law section 1. I believe – with respect to reporting – that there has never been one government that has fully complied with the expectations set out in Section 1 of the Police Act. I think it's impossible, simply because the expectations of the individual outside are much greater and will have much greater economic consequences than the Stortinget will find proper to grant to this department. Of course, we can have a rhetorical debate as to whether it is right or not, but what is in the law § 1 is very strong and very clear. But with all the respect I think all the governments have broken it. That's enough because you realize that the law you've been through to adopt, in a sense, has a clear ambition – but how realistic it is, I think there are as many opinions about it as there are people in this country. So, for the discussion about the janitor's office. Let me remind the House of one thing: Norway's strongest and toughest trade union leader, worker partyman and sheriff in Sogndal, Arne Johannessen, was among those who were most critical of the previous reform, Reform 2000. You know why? Well, it was simply because the Storting sheltered the cannon seat. Arne Johannessen was very clear that it was the biggest mistake the Stortinget made. If one had the effect of a more coordinated Norwegian police force, they could not be exempted from the reform. We did that last time. We don't do that this time. Then, of course, you could say that it was a bad choice, but at least the former leader of the PF was quite clear about it. And then to the attacks that come against the state council. Yes, the Council of State answers the Storting, but whoever has the day-to-day responsibility for implementing this is the police director. The police director directs the Norwegian police by order of the Minister of Justice. If the Minister of Justice is not satisfied with that job, he has the opportunity to do something about it. But I expect that as long as the police director sits there, he will take any action and any direction given by political leadership in the department. If not, the Council of State will get even more demanding questions from here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e738	The Minister of Justice has not signed up again, despite the fact that the representative has now twice called for answers to questions about why municipalities – a very specific example – have not received information. Now we do not ask the Minister of Justice to go into those copies, but to do something for why it is that the municipalities do not get the information they need in order to be involved as they should. To put it this way: if it is not important enough for the Minister of Justice to answer the Storting on these questions, how can we be sure that it is important enough for the municipalities to get them to answer them? The Labour Party believes there is a need for changes in the police. The police analysis was ordered by us. We have shown our willingness to change, we have shown that we take responsibility by concluding a conciliation and negotiating process. The representative of the Rivers said in his post more or less that we should go further in the doors now, because we are also responsible in terms of ownership, in terms of terms. Well, I want the Police Directorate to be closed down with the police reform, but exercising leadership is not the same thing as driving with uncritical support. Leiing means responsibility, it also means negation when needed. I would like to remind you that we, as a magnificent representative, are also required for people and for the police. Not least, if we want to change the police, we also need to ensure that the changes that have been made are good, and that we are not politicians like that after the police reform has been carried out, look at us and point to the Police Directorate and say that it was all those who were responsible for the implementation, and that they have to sit with responsibility for what is not going well, entirely on their own. 22 July is part of the back cover for police reform is necessary. It's a very serious wallpaper. Equally serious is the fact that the Labour Party had to demand a more clear national crisis management, that it had to get into its own big message. There was no theme in the police reform as the Right Party and the Progress Party had proposed to her for the Stortinget. The representative of Riveres has expressed some confusion about the Labour Party's position on the reform. I may not be able to help him with that confusion, but we've always been clear that when we get into government, we don't want to reverse this reform. On the contrary, we would like it to be implemented in the best possible way. This also means that it may be necessary to correct any errors we may inherit from this government, because the implementation may not be completed by a government change. We have learned that what we want to focus on is time, money, and content.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e751	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e756	I would like to encourage the representative Harek Elves to repeat more frequently what he said, that the positive results are patching in on-going bands. Just repeat it. It's uncovered in fact. It is said that in Hallingdal there is an increased crew in the winter season. Yes, it is. There are four holy vicars and a support patrol from Henfoss. It could have been implemented completely independently of the police reform if it had been prioritised in the past. But now the power has become so big that you have to give priority to something, and that's the answer. State Council Amundsen said you had to get a safe passport. You construct centralization arguments, in my opinion – for what is reality? The Lensmannskontoret in Ål produces 500 passports per year. There has not been a single error with the issue of the passports. The solid work that they have done is something that the government is looking away from, and it is said to contribute to a weakening of the interest in increased efforts in the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e763	The representative, Lene Vågslid, has had the word twice in the past and is given the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e768	I only want to refer to cards from the deal when they relate to the promise we gave to the inhabitants. It says: ‘Inhabitants shall know what they get and what a ‘closer police’ will mean in practice for their community. The majority refers to the criteria for new place of employment structure set out in Prop. 61 point 5.3 and considers that the following additional criteria for implementing changes in the structure of services shall be added.’;» [[2014-15]] There are those points that I have asked for answers to throughout the debate. They're important, because this is where we have the opportunity to make sure that the police service gets better in the municipalities that might lose the county office. There are a lot of speakers who are excited about the answer I'm going to get today, so I'm once again asking the Minister of Justice to come up to this pulpit to give us an answer to that. I don't expect him to go into detail, but he's going to give us an answer as to what he wants to do to get the information to people in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e782	I was the case rapporteur for the near-police reform when we discussed it here in the Chamber in June 2015, and I have participated and listened to this debate with great interest. I am an optimistic person, and I have listened to the debate with goodwill, I would say, and interpreted in the best possible sense what has been said here. I'll come back to some shades in it. Let me first dwell on this with the ‘best opinion’. What I have heard from the conciliators, I interpret in the following way: The agreement on the reform of the police is established. This shall apply to all participating lots. I'm glad. It is a clear signal from this hall and this pulpit about that 90 pst. by the Stortinget are behind the agreement, and that we support the department and police in the further implementation. This is an important and necessary signal in the public debate. So to the nuances, and it's about the Center Party: I'm noticing that you're trying to create a distance from the pulpit here between the terrible things that happened on July 22, 2011 and the near-police reform. How in the world can you do that? I'll just quote two of the Commission's main findings: ‘The offender could have stopped earlier 22/7.’ ‘The ability of the authorities to protect human beings in the Outlying Infidelity’. If it does not have a bearing on how Stortinget, the Norwegian National Assembly, deals with the security of its citizens, it is something fundamental at least I have misunderstood on the road. It is clear that there is a premise and as a backbone for this reform – plus everything else that is important: social development change in population composition the development of crime; Police analysis Diffi reports on the basis of which this reform was carried out and which confirmed why this was not only necessary but also important The answer from the Center Party is: Yes, we can go for 18 districts. Yeah, what's up? More money, says the Center Party. Well, this government has strengthened the police by 5 billion. DKK and 1 400 posts. It's strength. Finally, to the representative of Tajik, who asks whether the Stortinget should really decide that we should follow our own decisions: yes, then I ask the representative to clarify why the Labour Party supports proposals for III in the vote, that we should comply with the Working Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e820	According to the feedback I received from the Police Directorate, all the municipalities concerned have been offered to participate in the Steering Group. There have also been very clear signals that they have tried to involve the municipalities as well as they have been advised. Then it must be noted that not all municipalities want to be involved, and often it is the most critical municipalities. This is the starting point for my comment on it, just that the feedback says that the municipalities have been given the most opportunity to be involved. Yesterday I had a very serious mission – a serious visit. I was visiting Lillestrøm and saw the work the police are doing there, trying to counter abuse against special children, young people, online. I was presented to a chat log where two adult men discussed assault on a five-year-old child. This is a type of crime that we as society must equip ourselves at all points in order to combat, a horrific type of crime, which we must put in all the resources to stop. Then it is precisely through the near-police reform that we are able to deal with this type of digital crime – addressed to the representative Lundteg. The world has changed. We need a different kind of effort from today's police force than we needed in 1981. I note that when the Central Party refers in its comments to what they think is good content in the Norwegian police, and defines ‘closer police’, reference is made to 1981 and the definitions of the Police Role Committee at the time. It tells me a lot about where the Center Party is, maybe not just about where they are physically, but about what kind of time they are in, because in 1981 Internet crime was very little widespread. The world is changing, and we have to change with it. Then we need to modernise the Norwegian police. We cannot preserve the Norwegian police, and we must enable the Norwegian police to deal with all forms of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e827	The representative of Haarek Rivers has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e833	It has been claimed in the debate today that the Gjørv Commission cannot be used as a justification for the changes made in the Norwegian police. I quote from the Commission's report: ‘Our studies show that the needs of society for police-operational services, statistically speaking, are quite predictable, but that police action has made little use of this knowledge to plan and control the service time of personnel.’ It tells of an agency that is not well organized enough to solve its societal mission. When you do the necessary reorganisations, it turns out to be a centralization reflex. No, it's not centralization. There is a local pool of resources to improve local use and better local police.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e845	The representative Jenny Klinge has also had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e850	The core of what I said about the intervention of the representative, Mr Werp, instead of the report from the 22nd July Commission, was my question: what is it about this reform that would have made the prevention and, not least, the management of terrorism on 22nd July 2011 would be better if the reform had been implemented before that? The representative, Lundtegen, was in one of his good posts that it was not the smaller units that failed that day, it was the largest units, among others. Oslo Police District, failing. I think we must immediately stop using this terrorist action as an argument for this reform. We have to keep these things from each other. That's the point. Then the Minister of Justice would like to stop claiming that the Central Party lives in the 1950s. On the other hand, he likes to keep doing that, but the right hand side doesn't sound very tricky.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e859	The representative of Hadia Tajik has also spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e864	The representative, Werp, asks why The Labour Party states that one must follow the rules of the labour law and the Main Agreement on participation. It is very easy to answer. It is because we have received so much clear feedback from additional organisations about the lack of respect for the cooperation of the parties and for the lack of involvement in important issues that they address. There is clearly something in which the other parties, including the Right and the Advance Party, agree, since they have chosen to go to the unusual step of asking their own government to follow the rules of the labour market. The Minister of Justice did not really answer the question entirely from the representative of Mrs Wagslid. He considers the importance of the steering groups, and that is good and good, but in the comparison we also note that municipalities should be provided with written information on the expected police services in the course of police reform. It is a matter of ensuring that it is good for the municipalities, and it is a matter of the obligations of the police, so that the municipalities can take it up if it is not fulfilled afterwards. One should not be able to promise gold and green forests and then feel any responsibility for it afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e871	It is very important that we do not make this a rematch to the police reform, which has been adopted by a broad majority. I see that right-wing representatives are trying to add – what to say – that angle in the matter, but this is not about it. This is about the intention of the police reform that has been adopted to be followed up in a good way, so that we ensure a good society throughout the country, that people – whether living in Frøya, Røros, Trondheim, Finnmark or the South – should have the same security in everyday life as everyone else living in central Europe. It is about taking the signals coming from all the municipalities – that the involvement is too bad, that they have not been consulted, that they have given feedback to the Council of State, to the Council of Police, and not received a response. And it's about poor involvement, and there's little respect for those who have taken this work seriously, and who will make this a good reform on behalf of the security of their citizens. It's not about the police being bad either. We have the world's best police force, which makes a phenomenal effort every day around our society, and we must also support them, and we must do that to make this reform the best possible. This is about involving all parties, both in the municipalities, in the counties, in the police organizations, all employees, whether civil or police-related matters, matters that concern the audience and residents around all the municipalities of the country. As others have said, we have not yet received any good response from the Council of State on how he will take these signals over. It is pointed out that this is not the Minister of Justice's responsibility, that it is the police director's responsibility. No, it is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice to follow up on the successful implementation of the reform and intentions adopted. It's important that the police know their audience. Yeah, but it's at least as important that the audience also know their police. For prevention: it's about having police contacts, having police councils, and having other tasks that make the police out where people live, where the tasks are to be done. I think it's about involving, and having respect for the Main Agreement and the Working Environment Act. It is absolutely fundamental to the Norwegian welfare model. There we have also received several signals that this has not been taken seriously, is not being respected, and we cannot have it that way. Therefore, it is important that the Council of State follows up all the feedback we receive every day. We can look at Stortinget's Retriever service. My box is full every day with negative feedback, signals from local media, police, etc. It's not about the Center Party, the Workers' Party or the SV. This is about the police and the municipalities who are looking at this seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e882	There is no doubt that one in this room is busy with good police services and follow-up everywhere. So it's claimed by some here that this is a rematch on the police reform from the Central Party's side. It'll be totally wrong. What the Center Party is looking for is to clarify what quality we're going to have, and what requirements we're going to set, and in the Center Party, we're still going to stick to the police laws, even though Ellingen's representative was questioning whether we're actually doing this. It is about creating a sense that our citizens, wherever they live, feel that they have that security, legal certainty and universal well-being that Section 1 of the police laws should last. Then it is important to make the clarification that has been made here, which we would like to be able to agree to in connection with a part that is now taking place around the police reform. There has been a good job done by many police officers in connection with the contact with the municipalities. KS has been online, but there are still many spokespersons who claim – and there are many local authorities who feel – that they are not well enough involved in the reform work that is taking place. Some of the intention is to increase the number of police officers per capita. In my own region, the Gjøvik region, we now have a police density of 0.94 police officers per thousand inhabitants. It is far below the objective we have of ensuring security, and that the citizens themselves should have a good opinion that the police are there when they need them. South Africa, and South Aurdal, as I used as an example, is a mindful people's behaviour and certainly not populists when they now feel that Section 1 of the police laws does not take care of their interests. They feel that they are away from the police now than what they were before the co-location of the janitor's office in Valdres.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e893	Let me first highlight the following: I have no indication of anything but that the police have tried to involve the affected municipalities, both through participation and through all the information that is to become part of the municipality. I hear something else being said. I want to take those statements with me and, of course, check it out. At least I have no reason to say anything other than that all the municipalities should be well cared for in this process. That's the information I'm sitting on, but I want to check it out, of course. It is not right that the representative Klinge claims, namely that I said that the Senter Party lived in the 1950s. All I did was refer to the note from the Central Party where, in the mention of the near-police term, a reference to the 1981 Police Role Committee is chosen. Some would argue that the closeness of the police in 1981 compared to 2017 is quite different. Then we don't least talk about the web. For many, the web may well be perceived as one of the closest, most immediately accessible things you can relate to. I'm not doing this in an attempt to ridicule or in any way talk down the central party's point of view, but it's simply because I think you have to be willing to take on that reality has actually changed. The world out there is different today than it was in 1981. The near-police concept is different today than it was in 1981. We have other solutions, new types of crime, other challenges. That also means that you have to change as you do it. It is not that the local loner can anymore be the generalist who can solve all the world’s problems. When we talk about response time, when we depend on the police to be present when needed, it's about patrols. It's not about local janitors' offices. If you're so busy travelling time to a gentleman's office, as I've realized that some people are – when you talk about issuing passports, etc., 45 minutes – well, maybe you should also be sure that that gentleman's office is actually open. For reality today, there is a very large number of loner offices that have a limited opening time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e902	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e918	The usual thing for a case rapporteur is to thank for the cooperation in the case under consideration. I think I also have to add a thank you for the patience in this matter. After all, it has been a faithful companion to the Committee for up to several years. The proposition was initially about providing a basis for the handling of personal data in a number of fields. We adopted most of the points back in 2014. Then there was one point we chose to lift, and it was about the police handling of personal data in their various registers. It is, of course, important that the police have a sound basis for law enforcement in their handling of personal data. So do they today. But the legislation is probably a little fragmented gradually and had benefited from a clean-up, to say it a little simple. So it's like when you make that kind of change, you have to be very careful and make sure you don't create uncertainty or make accidental mistakes. During the course of the treatment, we were made aware that there was something in the proposition that might ultimately reduce police access to some of these registers. Then, as the committee, we think that it's okay to be leading was, and that's why we don't approve of this legal text now, but we welcome the fact that the government will come back to this matter in a new proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e927	I Prop. 115 L for 2013–2014, the Road Traffic Act, new Section 43 (b) on the processing of data for the performance of administrative tasks in the field of road traffic, was proposed. The proposal covers initially only the processing of personal data for administrative tasks under the Road Traffic Act. During the examination of the proposal by the Storting in autumn 2014, questions were raised as to whether the proposed regulation, taken together with other means of access, was appropriate in order to address the police's need for information from the relevant register, including for purposes outside the Road Traffic Act. Therefore, in a letter dated 8 December 2014 from the Minister of Transport to the Justice Committee, it was informed that, in the light of the concerns expressed by the police in consultation with the Ministry of Justice and Defence, the Ministry of Transport would review the matter with a view to ensuring that police access to information is safeguarded and has an appropriate legal basis. The remaining parts of the bill were dealt with in the autumn of 2016, while the proposal for a new section 43(b) was postponed. The Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Justice and Defence then prepared a joint proposal for a consultation note on adjusted § 43(b) on the processing by the State Road Administration of personal data in the field of the Road Traffic Act and the access to these by other authorities, including the police. The proposal was sent to the hearing in the spring of 2016. The government will shortly come back to Stortinget with a new proposal for appropriate regulation of the processing of personal data in the field of the Road Traffic Act and access to it by other authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e940	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e956	The close police reform concluded that, in order to ensure good professional competence in the resolution of the problem, it was appropriate to provide for the gathering of tasks in the civil justice field on the ground plane for larger areas than the individual County of Länsmann or Police. The Committee endorses the government's proposal in the proposal for a new Section 17 of the Police Act, which allows one member, police station chief or chief of staff to carry out the duties of coercive enforcement for several county councils or police districts. Such a scheme will allow for the establishment of larger districts of civil servants. Together with the court system, the reputable function is part of a legal order that ensures that individuals, groups and companies can rely on contracts to be kept. A well-functioning pedagogical function is important for maintaining payment morality in society and is of great importance for crediting and trading. At the same time, the role of civil officer is a central prerequisite for maintaining trust in the civil court. It is therefore important to ensure uniform and transparent organisation of the function of civil servants with competent and efficient entities. The proposed legislative changes facilitate the pooling of police tasks in the civil justice area on fewer units and the more efficient and secure performance of tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e965	The government has proposed moving the grenade to the land change rights and the property rights. There are both positive and negative sides to this proposal, in my opinion. There's more reason to be skeptical about the change if you don't just look at the change in yourself, but at the well-being of the tasks that are currently being moved from the police. When there is ever fewer and fewer civilian tasks in the police, the department loses more and more the civil character that has been characteristic of the Norwegian police, and which is something we should take care of. I therefore mean – on a general basis – that it is important to keep civil duties in the police, so that people have reason to meet up at a county clerk's office without necessarily something serious or criminal happening first. Such tasks provide the police with an important interface with the population and, indirectly, more valuable local knowledge. Knowledge of the inhabitants is important in local communities, whether it is a built or a city. A negative consequence of less civil contact, if you call it that, is that the threshold for tipping and contacting the police may be higher. Nevertheless, when the discretionary tasks are to be moved first, because there are multiples for which it is not a bad solution to move them to the land change courts. I would like to stress that the Centre Party is positive about moving several tasks of a different nature to the Land Change Courts, and that we are confident that they will be fully competent to carry out such judgement tasks. What I think is a reason to stress is that the result of this freeman move is not only determined by the quality of the work to be done by the land change rights and property rights, but also to the maximum extent of the future structure of these courts. When you move these tasks to the courts, there is still a degree of proximity to the services, even if the distances increase. However, the subsequent centralisation of these courts will lead to far greater distances and, in practice, to a strong centralisation of the judgement process. I don't think that's good, and I want to warn you about it. I think it is now important to keep an eye on how such a system will work in the courts, and whether it continues to be unbureaucratic, simple and reasonable for the users. This is exactly what I hope the Minister of Justice will take with me. I hope he will keep an alert eye on this, and that he will come back to Stortinget if it turns out that the solution would lead to a deterioration for the users, whether it be availability, costs or other. This is simply something we've been given specific concerns from people about, and we should, as far as possible, make sure that changes have positive outcomes for people, not negative ones. When it's related to the executive functions, I'm going to say that the Central Party has gone towards centralization of these because we don't think it's necessary or lucky with greater distances. I think that such a demanding work that in practice deals with the fate of individuals, requires local knowledge and geographical proximity. This is about changing a system that actually works, that gives people good help in difficult situations, and that makes it possible for many to move on in life. At this point, I would also encourage the Minister of Justice to follow closely what is happening. If fewer people are given good help in dealing with future debts, they must be apprehended.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e982	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e998	The government has made a number of good proposals to address the problem of radicalisation and foreign fighters. This proposal is one of many good in a long row. It's going to make it easier for the police to refuse passports or withdraw passports for people you're afraid to engage in foreign wars, for example. ISIL. Our clear assessment is that this is a good and important measure. Radicalized people who want to go out may be some amateurs on the day they travel, but if they want to have luck and come back with life, it is with great danger that they have lower empathy, but more ability and will to kill. That's something we want to prevent, and this proposal is going to give our authorities the tools they need to do just that. Preventing freedom of movement makes it difficult for them to move through several countries, and it also makes it easier to apprehend and, where appropriate, to arrest at border crossings.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1005	I take the word most of all to give an explanation of vote. The left will vote against the proposed changes to the passport law and the ID law in this case. This is a matter of well-known patterns from previous debates and cases, where, in the light of threat assessments, more police and PST instruments are requested, and where defence lawyers and legal aid associations in the consultation round express opposition in view of the fact that the proposals could reduce legal certainty. The left is a liberal party and always listens to arguments about legal certainty. Although we do not always reach the same conclusion as the groups I mentioned, we do so in this case. In general, we are concerned about developments where the sum of more and more instruments and increasingly lower evidence requirements is unknown. We note that there is already a law on access to refuse passports where there is some reason to believe that the purpose of the journey is illegal activity. We also note that there are various reasons for providing an important guarantee of legal certainty and that there is no reference to concrete examples that support the fact that there are requirements for diverse reasons that are the reason why the provision is not used and that a new provision with lower evidence requirements is therefore needed. Genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity and acts of terrorism are cruel crimes, but everything is already illegal and covered by the current wording. We find, therefore, that the department has expressed an understanding of the arguments I have expressed now, but that the conclusion is that they want to refuse passports where there is no likelihood of a crime. It doesn't want the Left to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1018	I am pleased that the Storting today adopts amendments to the passport law and the ID card law to make it easier to refuse to issue or revoke passports and national travel IDs if there is reason to believe that a person is intended to commit terrorist acts or terrorist-related acts. The proposal also opens up the possibility of refusing to issue or withdraw passports when there is reason to believe that the purpose is to commit war crimes, crimes against humanity or genocide. The proposal has been promoted on the basis of the fact that many have traveled to Syria and Iraq to join ISIL. Although the number of persons travelling to these areas has decreased recently, the proposal remains important and topical. The proposal also aims to address future situations and threats other than those we are facing today, and it will therefore also help to prevent very serious actions in the future. Pursuant to the legislation in force, there is also the right to withdraw passports where there is reason to believe that the purpose of the journey is to commit such acts. Thus, today, a probability balance is required for the purpose of the journey to be such an illegal activity. Such a probability requirement may be difficult to meet, which means that the determination is not used today. Following the proposal under consideration here today, a probability balance will not be required, but there must be objective points of view in order for the person to proceed in order to commit the type of serious act against which the proposal is addressed. The threshold is thus lowered somewhat, which I believe is both important and justifiable in order to prevent this type of very serious crime, which has both high penalties and extensive damage potential. Although this proposal will not be able to prevent all those who want to go out to become foreign fighters or to commit other types of criminal offences, it may be possible to stop someone where the threshold for refusing passports is too high today. It is important to be aware that refusal of passports interferes with the right to freedom of movement and the right to leave their own country, which is governed both by the Constitution and by international human rights. That's also the appeal point from some of those who are critical of the proposal. I just as fully believe that this proposal is correct and necessary, and not least an action that takes seriously a problem that a few years ago was completely unknown to us. Therefore, the measure shall not be applied unless there are compelling reasons to do so. There are several mechanisms in the proposal to ensure this and also to safeguard the rights of the person concerned. Even if the conditions are met, the refusal of passports must be specifically assessed on a case-by-case basis. The decision will be a single decision to be reasoned and may be appealed against. It is also possible to bring the decision before the courts. Furthermore, it will be provided in the passport regulation that the decision is limited in time, so that a new decision must be taken at least every year if the conditions are still met. I am pleased that a unanimous committee has joined the proposal. It is important to have effective instruments both to prevent very serious acts being committed in conflict areas and to ensure that returnees can represent a threat to Norway and Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1033	I just want briefly to comment on the post from the representative, Kjeseth, who is right that we have a basis for this today. It is just one big problem, and that is that it is not good enough when it comes to the practical realities. It is, as the Council of State also pointed out, an authority that has not been used to the extent that it might have been used. So let's think about examples where, for example: is time-critical, but where the home may not have stretched. It is a strong wish of the police to have access to this. I fully agree with the representative, Kjeseth, that we should, of course, show restraint. We are not going to jump automatically as the police would wish for measures to deal with this difficult problem. But there are some important things to remember. This isn't punishment. It's administration. There's an important shade of this. The second is that there are still reassuring remedies both in the management track and later in the court track, if it would be desirable to appeal. Ensuring legal certainty is a reassuring and, in fact, a shining clear premise to be able to join it. And after the committee is assured that those mechanisms are in place, I think it's a pleasure that we also adopt a unanimous position. Although there may not be a unanimous decision in the Stortinget, it is at least a very important decision The Stortinget takes today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1042	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1058	This proposal provides for the right to compensation for the loss of land and buildings that are lost or damaged as a result of natural damage and where it is not possible to repair these buildings again due to the risk of new natural disasters. Here you've really gotten lost in something that looks like a hole in our insurance law, and that's what this proposal addresses. The extent of such things, i.e. where land and construction cannot be restored due to natural damage, has probably been relatively small, but we can see alive that this is a problem that is going to increase in scope in the years to come. For those who are hit by this, there may not be many, but for them, this type right here means everything. Therefore, it is gratifying that this hole is now covered in our rules, and that this is corrected in.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1067	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1083	On behalf of an overall committee, I present the position on this matter, where the Ministry of Justice and Defence proposes amendments to the Arbitration Act § 20-11. This case is based on a complaint received by the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, in September 2014 from a private individual stating that the Arbitration Act § 20-11 does not comply with the EEA Agreement. This refers to the fact that a plaintiff who does not have a domicile in Norway may be required to ensure that his possible liability for the costs of legal proceedings is met. The ESA concluded that § 20-11 of the Arbitration Act contravenes Article 4 of the EEA Agreement, the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of nationality, Article 28, the free movement of workers, Article 31, freedom of establishment, Article 36, freedom to provide services, and Article 40, freedom to transfer capital. We have an obligation under international law to have a law that is consistent with our international agreements. Here ESA has concluded that our legislation is not in line with the EEA Agreement, and that is why this amendment came about. With this in mind, the Government proposes that the second sentence of the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 20-11 of the Arbitration Act be amended so that no security may be required from plaintiffs with domiciles in an EEA State, irrespective of the subject matter of the action. The law is proposed to give effect to actions brought after the entry into force of the amendment. We now have a law that is in line with the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1096	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1112	First, I must commend the Committee on good cooperation in this matter. It is a matter that has taken a very long time, which has been back and forth in the committee, and not least back and forth to the ministry. It is a unanimous committee that has presented this position. Like the proposers, the Committee is committed to preventing international corruption, which is becoming only a more and more serious problem in today's society, both nationally and internationally. The society has growing demands and expectations that Norwegian companies, in particular, implement the necessary measures to prevent future corruption. It's a work that needs to be given a very strong priority in the future, in order for us to have confidence in them. It is important to have clear and effective anti-corruption legislation that acts preventively against companies. However, the Committee would point out that the proposal for amendment is relatively far-reaching, in the light of what the proposers have proposed, and that it should be possible for one to have a prior, thorough assessment of the existing provision. The Committee would also point out that there is a difference between Norwegian and English legislation and, in particular, the legal system, and that thus one cannot automatically transfer the experience from the English system to Norway. In this context, the Committee would like the proposal to be assessed against English legislation and the Council of State to come back to the Stortinget with a case as soon as possible once it has been properly assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1125	Firstly, I would like to point out to the rapporteur's excellent presentation of the matter that it is really quite rare that a document 8 proposal is received so well that a unanimous committee does something more about it than propose to attach that protocol. On the contrary, treatment here today becomes a very concrete guide to how corruption regulations are being modernised and streamlined at this point. It's very joyful. If there is anything to comment on, perhaps the rapporteurs will notice that we have passed the one-year anniversary of presentation in this Chamber, but it does not do as much if the outcome is as the committee has proposed. I just want to say from this pulpit that we're good at decorating ourselves with the label that we have zero tolerance against corruption. For those of us who sit in the legislative assembly, it should commit a little more. Because we can pass laws, so that when the state expresses zero tolerance, it does so by entering a ban into the penal code. The political declarations of zero tolerance must therefore be expressed in our criminal law – the standards that we want to comply with and that we believe are important to be respected. In the international community, corruption is devastating for development, trust and interaction between countries. That is why we need to have an up-to-date regulatory framework. It is therefore also the case that the proposers have been inspired by the legislation developed by the United Kingdom, which was at the forefront of the EU system. Then you get to regret the fact that the British seem to leave some of the constructive justice that you strive with elsewhere in Europe – but it is outside the scope of the topic today. What I would also like to point out at the end of this matter is that I have seen the Ecocrime hearing opinion, which has rightly said that there are aspects of the proposal that could deserve better depression, among other things. details of the functional link between those associated, those acting on behalf of a company wishing to purchase the distributions they should not have — to put it simply. The aim of the proposal is precisely not to escape responsibility for not engaging in corruption by using intermediaries. But there may be something in that something more needs to be investigated what are the functional requirements, and we also put our honor in that, especially with regard to criminal law, we have to be precise. What I want to warn you about, however, is that Ecokrim also says that it is a larger picture. You can imagine this as a general response to the general responsibility of the companies in respect of compliance with other laws and regulations, and you problematize why corruption is so important. To that I just want to say: Corruption is one of the most devastating societal phenomena. That is why it should be raised, and therefore I am also very pleased, on behalf of the proposers, that the Committee has just given the clear order that Section 389 of the Criminal Code should have this addendum in accordance with the principles set out by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1140	Combating financial crime is high on the government's agenda. Corruption is very socially damaging, particularly internationally. The government is therefore committed to having clear and effective anti-corruption legislation. I am in favour of changes in the law that can contribute to that very thing. I agree with the Committee that it should be assessed whether the rules on criminal liability for corruption can become clearer and more effective. I also agree with that international development, for example. in the United Kingdom, can provide inspiration for improvement. However, as pointed out by the Committee, it has not been given that British rules may be transferred to Norwegian law. It is possible that Norwegian companies should be held liable for corruption by affiliated persons and contracting entities other than today. This could be further addressed by an investigation and a hearing. I'm not sure if the solution inspired by the British right is right at this particular point. However, extended responsibilities may be implemented in a number of different ways, and this is something that the department will further clarify. A principle that good anti-corruption work should lead to impunity may be appropriate to reward companies that take anti-corruption seriously. At present, prevention efforts will also have an impact on the imposition of corporate penalties. However, it may be considered to clarify what is required of preventive production work in Norwegian companies. However, the UK rules are based on principles foreign to Norwegian criminal law. If preventive measures in the company are to lead more easily to impunity than at present, this should be done in a way that is better suited to Norwegian law. It is also important that the rules provide incentives for the company to effectively prevent corruption, not just implement minimum measures. These are among the issues that need to be considered and where a general consultation could provide useful input. I agree with the rapporteurs and the Committee's views on the importance of combating corruption. I therefore look forward to following up this initiative and coming back to the Stortinget with proposals on how to make the rules of corruption both clearer and more effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1153	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1171	All in all, eleven proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Anders B. Werp on behalf of the Right Party and the Party of Advancement proposal No 3, from Jorodd Asphjell on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 4, from Jorodd Asphjell on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 5, from Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party the proposals No 6-10, from Jenny Klinge on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 11, from Ola Elvesuen on behalf of Left
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1195	First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 6-10, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that officers’ offices and police stations are maintained with this designation.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the officers’ offices and police stations maintained after the police reform has been implemented shall have civil duties at least equal to those of today’.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to reverse the centralisation of police foreign administration in the first line.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that all officers’ offices and police stations remaining after the implementation of the reform are able to issue passports.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that the issuing of arms cards is continued at the offices and police stations currently providing this service.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1232	President! I voted in favour, but I am very opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1237	Then there will be 95 votes against and 6 votes in favour of the proposals from the Central Party, and the proposals are therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1242	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the right of appeal of the municipalities involves real opportunities to appeal against the content of the decision taken by the Police Directorate and not only to appeal against the process leading up to the decision.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1257	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure at least the same level of police presence in the areas where relief offices are set up.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1274	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that civil tasks such as: the issue of weapons cards and passports does not exceed 45 minutes for at least 90 pst. by the citizens so that the service offered to the public is maintained in the best possible way.» The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1292	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return appropriately with a plan for the issue of weapons cards and passports in the new service structure, which ensures a good balance between quality, safety and user availability.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to facilitate the competence and police force of the departments of the new structure in line with the intention of the Stortinge, as described in the Innst. 306 S [[2014-2015]] The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1346	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on I and V. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1360	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on II and IV. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1374	The opinion shall be put to the vote on the position of the Committee on III. The President notes that this Roman number shall read the ‘Main Agreement’ instead of the ‘Main Agreement’.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1386	There is a vote on proposal No. 11 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that the quality of the work on the desired final result presented to the municipalities in advance and other factors relevant to the overall local availability of the police are also taken into account.’ The right-wing party and the Progressive Party have announced their support for the proposal. The Central Party and the Left Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal. [[(from the hall):]] The same is true of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e1423	The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e2044	There is a vote on the Committee's appointment to Section 16, second paragraph, and new Section 17. The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e2058	A vote shall be taken on the opinion of the Committee for the remainder of I, II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e2068	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e2079	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e2129	The Left and the Left have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e2142	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Left and the Left have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e2156	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e2166	The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e2213	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e2223	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e2232	The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e2268	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e2278	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e2302	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e2328	Referral case No 190 is proposed under point (e) of the second paragraph of Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure. The representative, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e2335	I mean, and I guess the Stortinges also believe that it is very important to ensure that the Stortinge's will is reflected in the decisions that are made. It is therefore necessary for this case to be dealt with. On behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, I ask that the Rules of Procedure be waived and that the matter be sent to the Health and Care Committee for consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e2342	The proposal was put forward on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, and what the President has been informed, is that it is also on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The representative, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, then asked for a record case no. 190 are sent to the Health and Care Committee. In Document 8:64 S for 2016-2017, it is proposed that the proposals No. 1-3 in Innst. 170 S for 2016-2017, which was adopted at Stortinget on 23 February of this year, is repealed. The examination of the proposal must therefore be assessed in accordance with the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 38 of the Rules of Procedure, which states: ‘Once a proposal has been finalised, the proposal must not be re-submitted or re-examined in the same roll-out session.’ The provisions shall read as follows: ‘If necessary, the Grand Duchy may nevertheless decide that a proposal shall be re-examined, provided that it is re-examined.’ [[...]] After the February 23 reading, it is clear that the proposals were alleged to have been rejected, but that the reason for their adoption – perhaps because it was the World Cup as well – was that some representatives did not vote as they should. The error response was not notified during the vote. Consequently, there was no basis for a new vote. Such a result cannot be altered afterwards and thus the vote is final. The President considers that this is not an urgent reason why the Storting should decide to re-examine the proposals, and therefore proposes that Document 8:64 S be dealt with in accordance with point (e) of the second paragraph of the Rules of Procedure and not be taken into consideration. The President will now take up the procedure for voting. Alternatively, between the President's proposal and the proposal presented by the representative Kari Kønaas Kjos on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party will support the President's proposal, and that the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the proposal promoted by the representative Kari Kjønaas Kjos on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. Here the President came in two ways, because now I have to vote as a party member and not as President, so I have to vote against the President’s proposal – but it is now the President’s problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e2379	Referral case No 190 will then be sent to the Health and Welfare Committee for consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e2384	Further references were made: 2nd@item: inlistbox Annual report 2016 from the Selection Board for Judicial Remuneration (Document 14) [[191]] [[2016-2017]] Onest. : Sent to the Judicial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-23.ana.ud99e2393	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
