ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e31	A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Ingunn Foss, Svein Roald Hansen, Heidi Nordby Lunde and Marianne Marthinsen on leave from 14 November until 16 November to attend the meetings of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee with the EEA/EFTA Ministers in Brussels and to attend the meetings of the EEA Joint Committee in Strasbourg from representatives Lars Haltbrecken and Ole André Myhrvold on leave from 14 November to 16 November, and from representatives Ola Elvestuen and Knut Arild Hareide on leave on 15 and 16 November, all to attend the high-level part of the 23rd Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, COP 23, Bonn These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate from Oslo, Guri Melb y, currently has parental leave and is therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinge under the leave of the representative Ola Elvestuen. From the first alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Mona Berger, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Lars Haltbrecken, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the West-Agder counties: Mathias Bernander For Hordaland County: Toril Selsvold Nyborg For Oslo: Zaineb Al-Samarai, Astrid Nyklebye Heiberg and Grunde Kreek Almeland For the South Tribute County: Nisrin El Morabit For Eastfold County: Siv Henriette Jacobsen and Elin Johanne Tvete
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e123	The representative, Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e128	On behalf of Heidi Greni, Nils T. Bjørke and Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on improvements to the media service.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e133	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e138	On behalf of myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to ban rentals from recruitment agencies in the construction industry in the Oslofjord area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e143	The representative of Arild Grande will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e148	On behalf of the representatives of Hadia Tajik, Svein Roald Hansen, Lise Christoffersen, Jonas Gahr Støre and myself, I am delighted to propose a temporary ban on rental.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e153	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e161	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Svein Roald Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Roald Hansen is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e181	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Jan Tore Sanner, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and Anniken Hauglie will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the questionnaire. We start with the first main questions, from the representative of Hadia Tajik.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e190	My question goes to the Minister of Labour. In the election campaign, she used words as ‘slave contracts’ about the employment in the crew industry. The election campaign is over, and we are back in normal operation again. The Minister of Labour now says that her preliminary conclusion is that crew companies should be allowed to use temporary posts and that they do not have to commit to a certain number of hours of work per week or month. The basis for the Minister of Labour's use is that there is a need for some flexibility in the labour market. It may be agreed, but this flexibility clearly does not apply to it. They also need to plan working time and leisure time, obtain housing loans and have security of work and income. There are a lot of people who don't have today. Many of them work in the construction sector, many of them in the Oslo area. Leases are overrepresented in accident statistics, and very few of them are organized. We also know that few people are looking for these subjects as apprentices. We know that when workers experience insecurity, it does something completely fundamental to our working life. There are fewer who dare to say from, there are fewer who dare to organize, there are fewer who want to work with this kind of work. So even though the Minister of Labour has gone from talking about slave contracts to talking about flexibility, reality is the same. My question is: why does the Minister of Labour see this idea of flexibility higher than the reality of workers who need good living conditions and security?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e199	First of all, I stand by what I said before the summer, that the use of rentals in some industries is worrying. We also see that this applies in particular to the construction industry in Oslo and Akershus. As the representative Tajik is also aware, before the summer we sent out to the hearing proposals on how to deal with that kind of issue. We sent out three concrete proposals at the hearing. One was to clarify in the law what permanent employment should mean. Secondly, we said that we want to extend the access of the recruitment agencies to temporary employment when there are real vicariates. The third was that we were open to feedback on the possibility of having allowances for the number of rentals in the companies. We haven't concluded that yet. The hearing period expired on 29 September. We've got a lot of hearings from the people out there. There's a great deal of excitement about clarifying fixed employment in the law, there's disagreement between the parties about how to deal with temporary employment in the manning industry, and there's more or less agreement that you don't want an allowance. What we want now is to take a new round with the parties to discuss how the last one might be handled. We haven't changed our position. We haven't changed our mind about what are the realities. We are now dealing with the consultation recordings that have been made on the basis of the proposals we sent out. Then we're going to take a look at it and come to Stortinget with concrete amendments. It's a misunderstanding that you have concluded or changed your position. On the contrary, I believe that what I have meant all along, and we come to Stortinget with concrete amendments. Preferably, I hope that the parties can agree on what goes on in some industries. I see that the Workers' Party and also Red have now made proposals to ban rentals. I disagree. I think it's the wrong way to go. In that case, it would mean that companies would have to be top man, as if they had full order books all the time. They may have to cancel when the order books are empty – and it's a practice that I don't want to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e210	When the diagnosis of parts of the labour market is that there are slave contracts, I cannot see that the tools presented by the Minister of Labour are in line with that. And it's not something that's just the Labour Party I'm talking about. The trade union, the Labour Inspectorate, says that they ask questions about whether employees are, in fact, somewhat better off with a temporary addition, compared to a fixed addition without a guaranteed salary. So they're going to meet quite a lot of professional resistance to their suggestions. Today, the Labour Party has put forward proposals to address the problem of housing and the unworthy working conditions associated with parts of Norwegian working life. I have understood that the Minister of Labour will not support the part on the ban on renters, but we also have other proposals that we have tabled today, including those relating to the ban on renters. the task of supervising illegal tenants must be entrusted to the Labour Inspectorate. We're also going to add $25 million to our alternative budget. To strengthen them in this work, please contact the Labour Inspectorate. Is this proposal that the Minister of Labour can support?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e217	Yeah, I think we can agree. We agree that illegal rental should not occur. Now we have presented the budget we have presented, and then there are negotiations on it in the Storting. In the case of zero-hour contracts: zero-hour contracts will be lost with the proposal we have on fixed-term employment. That means that that part of the issue will be gone if we go on with the proposal to clarify fixed-term employment in the law. That is precisely why we have also said that, in order for temporary employment agencies to continue to employ real temporary workers, it is important that they continue to be able to work temporarily. The rest of the proposals we have to come back to, but we are prepared to move forward with the proposals we ourselves have made. We sent them to the hearing because we believe they are good, and because they solve the problems we see in parts of Norwegian working life. So it's also important to say, fixed employment is the general rule, and it's going to be the general rule. The use of rentals is relatively limited, but we see that there is a lot of it in some industries, especially in the construction industry in Oslo. In the rest of the country, it's not.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e226	Follow-up questions are given – first Rigmor Aasrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e231	I would like to ask the follow-up question to the municipal minister, because on Friday the Directorate for Building Quality announced that they would change the practice of examining applications for central approval. The Executive Board believes that there should be no requirement for self-employed staff with a letter of formal qualifications in order to obtain a central approval. This is contrary to clear signals from the Stortinget that the Planning and Building Act and its regulations should facilitate a serious working life in the construction industry as well. Another directorate for which the Council of State is responsible, Diffi, recommends that public orderers make demands for the use of people with vocational and bachelor letters and apprentices. Then the question is asked to the Council of State: will he ensure that all his directorates follow up the clear signals from the Storting to have a code that helps the serious operators in the construction industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e238	It is an important question the representative of Aasrud travels. The fight against black work, the fight for a serious work life, is important. The Directorate for Building Quality has established a central approval system, which is voluntary, and which must be an important tool for promoting seriousness. So it turns out that on some points, the directorate has practised the rules more stringently than that on which it is based. The Directorate for Building Quality must deal with the regulations and legislation laid down. I believe that is also in line with the signals the Storting wants to give. We would like to discuss how strict these requirements should be, but the requirements should be set after an open process, a consultation process, and then the directorate must deal with the rules and regulations that are laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e245	Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e250	My question goes to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. The Working Environment Act provides for an almost unlimited level of labour renting in parts of Norwegian working life by not proposing accommodation restrictions in enterprises, cf. an ABC News Article 3 November 2017. The Councils of State expressed the following opinion on such rentals: ‘I don’t want to change what I think everyone is concerned about, to ensure some flexibility in the working life. It is difficult to be manned as if you were going to have a full order book all the time. Then there would probably be a lot of redundancies and lay-offs." In the past, the Council of State has confirmed in writing that the termination of the labour-environment door for hire from manning companies, i.e. the second paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act, will not be contrary to the EEA Agreement. Can the Council of State therefore confirm that she wants to continue the development of an increasing number of enterprises in Norwegian working life based large parts of her activity on the rental of foreign labour from manning companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e261	I think most people are actually concerned that, on the one hand, we should limit what we think is an excessive use of rentals in some industries in parts of the country, that is. where you get a disproportionate rent. We all agree that we need to reduce the amount of. But I also see the opinion there that most people think it still has to be possible for businesses to take in when there are peaks, or when there are real vicariates. When you remove the possibilities of the so-called zero-hour contracts, it becomes more difficult for temporary employment agencies to bring in employees at real vicariates. These are the different reasons we have been concerned with, and I believe that through the proposals we sent out to the hearing, we are able to maintain that balance – remove what we want to remove, but keep what we are all concerned about keeping. The second paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act disagrees on where the level should be, i.e. who should decide. We believe that it should be on the company that needs rental.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e270	Solfrid Lerbreck – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e275	If we look at the painting industry today, he looks quite different than he did just ten years ago. There are, among other things: Almost no more teaching places in that subject, and as a consumer, it is also not easy to find out about the serious actors. The unprofessional actors can destroy the entire industry if they get their root fixation. The rock rings win, and the honest actors lose. We really can't let this happen. Out of respect for a proud subject of long traditions, for society as a whole, and not least for young people who want to become professionals in the construction industry, I ask the Minister of Labour: what time does the government intend to put in a real noise, which seems to be against unprofessional employers in the workplace?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e282	If there is something that this government has been concerned about, it is just to combat labour-life crime and unprofessional actors in Norwegian business. This is why we have developed two strategies against labour-related crime together with the parties – the first in 2015, it has been revised, newly presented in February 2017 – with several concrete proposals on how to combat unprofessional actors, both through cooperation between the agencies, through method development and empowerment in the networks, and by providing more opportunities for them to take the unprofessional ones. We have amended the public procurement legislation, including: use of apprentices is one of the requirements we set. Because we know that some of the things that separate the serious from the unprofessional, among other things. is whether you are taking in apprentices or not. So we work evenly with the parties and our agencies to fight unprofessional actors. We see that we can also take more. Next week, the Prime Minister will attend the EU Summit, where she will take an initiative towards the EU to tighten up further by having international cooperation on taking the unprofessional.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e291	André N. Skelstad - for the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e296	There is no doubt that this is becoming a challenge, especially in the Oslo area, but also in parts of the rest of the country, and the former proposals of the Left on minimum wages, which have been partly ridiculed, have again been updated. But the main problem is not just in Norway. It also depends on the type of driving rules to be adopted internationally, not least in Europe. My question is: What initiatives will the government take to follow up the plans now outlined by the Hauglie Council at a more fundamental level – such as police cooperation, crime control and international rules? This also needs to be solved on the outside of Norway. This isn't just about what we're doing in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e307	We just see that a lot of this type of crime is international. It's cross-border. The size decided in our broadcasting directive, which gives us more new tools in this work, including: that establishments which are fined in Norway but which are shut down and disappear may be persecuted in other European countries. Now in August, the Labour Inspectorate concluded several concrete cooperation agreements with the respective supervisory bodies of other European countries to cooperate operationally and to increase the competence of inspectors out there. Next week, the Prime Minister will go to the European Union Summit in Gothenburg, where she wants to take the initiative for an even closer cooperation between the European countries on information exchange, police cooperation and other measures, precisely because we see that we are going to manage this, we must do it together across European borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e314	Steinar Reiten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e319	Some of the most important measures to ensure decent living conditions in the workplace are to ensure that those who operate seriously are not pushed out of the market by unprofessional operators operating on the edge of or outside the law — such as securing the working environment, following the HMS Regulation or decent pay conditions. In recent years, the Christian People's Party has been making a positive contribution to the budgetary conciliation process in order to establish more labour-criminal centres. There are centres where the police, tax authorities, the labour and welfare services and the Labour Inspectorate cooperate. Other public authorities, such as municipal tax collectors, are also part of that cooperation. How does the Council of State estimate that these centres have worked so far, with a view to contributing to a more serious working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e328	There is no doubt that the work centres that have now been established have achieved a great deal. They're taking more players, they're dropping out of games. Their supervision is more coordinated and coordinated, and they experience that when they put their respective tools into a common toolbox, they become more powerful and effective than they have been when they operate separately. In addition, there is considerable methodological development and learning in moving together in common centres. You learn from each other's way of working and each other's way of approaching problems. So this kind of cooperation has been successful, not least through a lot of empowerment and method development, and you can take more actors than you would have done separately.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e335	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e341	Minister of State Jan Tore Sanner and the government coerced into a joint assembly between Finnmark and Troms on 31 October in Kirkenes. At the meeting that Sanner called for, the Council of State did not come. He sent a video greeting from Oslo. He who is at the head of the coercive decision would not go to Finnmark and meet the local people, whom he believes he has the right to overrun. According to the government.no, the Council of State Sanner thought it was more important to have an internal Right meeting. It's incomprehensible and disrespectful of a government council to give priority like that. The resistance to coercion in Finnmark is enormous. The merger has no popular grounding. The elected representatives have always been clear in their opposition to the merger. Measurements have shown that there is a majority against aggregation in all parties. And that's not nice, because Finnmark and Troms are a huge area. It's huge distances. You have to go, for example. from Harstad to Kirkenes, it is more than 1,000 kilometres to drive in Norway. It takes 15 hours. It's bigger than Ireland. My challenge and my question to the Council of State is: Why did the Council of State not choose to meet people and people elected in Troms and Finnmark in a meeting he himself called in? Is it because he sees for himself that the coercive decision is unwise and that it is difficult to defend in direct contact with the affected?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e350	I meet both local government representatives and county representatives from the northernmost states and from the rest of the country at regular intervals. That's not what this case is about. The question is whether or not to implement the regional reform adopted by the Stortinget or not to do so. The regional reform took place following an initiative from the Left, which was supported by the Christian People's Party. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have initially believed that we could cope with two levels of government, the municipality and the state, but because there is a majority in this Chamber for three levels of government, we also believe that the time is ripe for regional reform. It also meant the Central Party when they were in government, but they did not get it. The point is that we have regional boundaries that were set in the 1800s. It's happened a little bit since then. Society has changed, the challenge picture is quite different. We've been discussing whether to have county municipalities, how to divide the regions, at least for 30 years. Our government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, implements what we have told us to do. We're implementing what's adopted in Stortinget. As regards the regional breakdown, it is provided for in a written agreement between the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party. And once the Storting has adopted it, the government also implements it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e363	I understand the Council of State. It may be unpleasant to meet in Finnmark and stand before the State Council for which it is responsible – for coercing Finnmark with Troms. Neither is Jan Tore Sanner able to make an argument as to why it's wise, because it doesn't find the Right. It is the Right that has used its power in the Storting for coercion. One is Finnmark and Troms, which is completely incomprehensible. The second is that we should now have a new state called the West, which will cover half the West. What kind of progress is that? We will have a region that goes from Svinesund to Hardangervidda – with Oslo in the middle. Is it a step forward, or is it a step backwards? The Christian People's Party said in the debate in Stortinget – after the Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party had been sitting and drawing maps in the office, that we have got a solution that no parties really want. Will the Council of State Sanner have this solution, or does he think it has been an unwise and poor solution, which no parties really want?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e370	I believe that the decisions taken by the Storting are wise decisions – including this decision. It's nothing new that the Center Party is dreaming about the past. Today's county borders are from the 1860s – from the mid 1800s. We see that there are other challenges today, related to climate change, related to the labour market and how we can facilitate each region's advantage. I believe that 10-11 regions are better off than 19 regions. I think it's an advantage that we can now release at least 350 million. kr from the bureaucracy and administration that can be used for county roads and better schools for our young people. Yes, this is a progress. This is a decision taken by the Stortinget on the initiative of the government's partners. We'll do it. The Central Party wanted a regional reform when they were in government. They couldn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e375	There will be follow-up questions – first Heidi Greni.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e380	Yesterday we had a hearing of the committee on the proposal to reverse the coercion of states. Many of those who were at the hearing had the same concern. One reason why this was very demanding to get started was that no one understood the logic of this map. The coercive mergers lead, inter alia, to: to major differences between the smallest and the largest regions. Of course, the centre party believes that More and Romesdal and Rogaland should continue as their own counties, and that they are fully capable of taking on future new tasks and solving them in an excellent way without aggregation. I'm glad the Council of State agrees with us on that. The question then arises: can the Council provide some examples of future tasks that More and Romsdal can take on, but such as: Finnmark, Uppland or Akershus are completely unable to solve without being coerced together with a neighboring party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e387	There is a fairly broad majority in the Grand Duchy who believe that today's county councils have expired. It is a fairly broad majority who have believed for 20-30 years that the time has come for regional reform. If we look at the regions that have now merged – well, it was Buskerud and Østfold that initially took the initiative for the Vikings, and they negotiated an agreement with Akershus. Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane have negotiated an agreement. Hedmark and Oppland wanted to form a region when the Senterpartiet was in government. It's a time when we have to say that now we're looking forward and not backwards, now we're doing what we've agreed on, now we're ending all the fights. And yes, the counties will get more problems in the time to come. When the major municipal reform was carried out in 1965, the tasks were not started, but started with a management structure that could take on more tasks. It has been given to the municipalities, and it will also be given to the new counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e396	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e401	Clearly, it has been all the way that neither the Right Party nor the Progressive Party wants the second administration, i.e. the county councils. It even repeated the state council here now. In this process, the government has made a number of proposals to weaken the level that they are now saying will get a boost with a regional reform, where there is no connection between who it is that is being merged, who should still be able to stand alone, and the tasks that are either removed – as the government will, as the Stortinget rescues, such as. dental and secondary education — or where the Council of State is able to outline a single new task to be given to these regions. Is it true, as representatives of both the Right and the Progressive Party have said in the case and at the time of the submission of the case, that this regional reform is a step towards ending the whole level of the region and the county?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e408	I'm dealing with what the Biggest has decided. The size has decided that we should have three levels of government. The majority has decided that we should carry out a regional reform. It is the Storting that decides which tasks the regions should have. The power to transfer tasks to the counties is in this room. Through our cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have contributed to the fact that the states now have more tasks related to their social development role, and we want to be able to carry out more tasks in the coming period. That is why we have set up our own expert committee, which is presenting its investigation on 1 February 2018. The prerequisite for moving more problems is that the management level can do the problems better. We're not moving tasks for our own sake. We move them if a better job can be done for the citizens, for the business community – the public sector is for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e415	Jorod Asphjell – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e421	The Right Party and the Advance Party have been ready to reduce the county as a regional level. The Christian People's Party and the Left are to have it, but it has to be reduced, almost halved, from 19 to 11. Some of these counties will be a lot bigger than they are today. More and Romesdal, e.g., which is reduced by two municipalities if Rindal goes to Trøndelag, will be smaller. What is the reason why More and Romsdal can do better with fewer municipalities and smaller populations than the large municipalities that merge? What's the difference between that and that? I think – is it an objective from the Right to continue to reduce, to lower the regional level of government? And will it be easier for Right to implement its policy with 11 county municipalities instead of 19?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e426	It could have been informative on this matter about the Workers' Party sometimes also said what they themselves stood for. Because what I'm recording in this debate is that the Labour Party, which has been involved in regional reform, I think almost as long as I've been in Norwegian politics, now suddenly sits on the sideline because you find it opportunistic to criticise. Then the question is, what is the Labour Party's alternative? When it became Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane, it was because the two states agreed. The two states agreed that they wanted to join forces. I have given great consideration to the courage, the boldness and the foresight shown by politicians in the Trondelag. The point is that when we are going to have three levels of government, the state politicians also have to take the space, not just point to the state, that then the state has to give tasks. No, it is necessary to define the role of county councils in the future. It is a historic opportunity that the state politicians now have, and through the cooperation between the bourgeois parties, we now get it too. We red tape and we contribute to better services for citizens and businesses – the ones we are for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e431	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e436	First of all, I have to say that I am very pleased that the Central Party and the Workers' Party are standing by that we need an intermediate level in Norwegian policy. After all, they tried an administrative reform in their red-green government period, and the task that remains as one of the most obvious that was transferred was the administration of royal crabs. There are great opportunities here, and I am very pleased that there is a majority in the Grand Duchy who will be with the Left and drive through the modernisation of the county municipality. But most importantly, for the Left, it is a modernisation of the state. That's what's the big challenge of establishing a bunch of directorates and government agencies that live their own lives, and most of them are established in Oslo. That's what makes a lot of the labor out in the districts suck to Oslo. So my question to the Council of State is: what will the Council of State do to modernise the state sector, to help strengthen the regional level?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e445	It is about several measures. One is the digitisation of the public sector, where we have now implemented a digital boost in the state and also established cooperation between the state and the municipality. Furthermore, we have now implemented neutral VAT in the state, so that it becomes competitively neutral if the state produces the services itself, or if you buy in the market – I believe that the state and the public should use the market where the market can provide better and cheaper services – and it is through the demand for increased efficiency in the state, which means that we move about every year. One and a half billion. kr from bureaucracy and administration to better services, and by moving state jobs from Oslo to the country. There the government, along with the Left, has gained significantly more in four years than the red-green with the Centrette in the head managed in its eight years. We intend to continue to decentralize and shift power, and to streamline and modernise the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e452	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e457	I would like to ask the Minister of Labour a question. The security of an oil platform cannot be easily addressed. Slurry can lead to major accidents, loss of life and serious environmental damage. In September, the Petroleum Control Authority carried out oversight of the security on board the Goliath Platform. Monday of this week was the day of the report. It is the crushing reading of the Italian oil company operating the first platform in the Barents Sea. Among other things, it appears that errors and deficiencies on the platform were discovered already in 2015, and that the company claimed that this was corrected. It turns out not to be right. The errors should have been corrected on paper according to the Petroleum Control Authority, but not in reality. The security of the platforms is decisive for those who work there. What will the Minister of Labour do to ensure that Eni closes the security deviations pointed out by the Petroleum Authority, not only on paper, but also in reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e468	First, I would like to say that I agree that it is absolutely essential that health, environment and safety on the Norwegian base are world leaders. The government also says it's going to be world leaders. We set up an expert selection that made its recommendation earlier this autumn, which will form the basis for a new notification of HMS on Norwegian pedestal coming to spring. As far as Goliath is concerned, there is no doubt that there have been some major challenges with the platform, from the moment it lay to the dock in Korea. Also, because it is the first platform in the Barents Sea, the Petroleum Authority has been following Goliath closely from the very beginning. I have had regular meetings with Ptil about the situation, both on the base and on Goliath, precisely because there have been many events related to the company and the platform. There was a report on Monday on which the representative is present. I have also met with the Petroleum Control Department about the latest developments. What the Petroleum Control says is that Eni has become better at following up the situation. They're doing what Ptil says they're going to do. Now the platform is temporarily closed, and it is going to be until Eni rises in the comments of the Petroleum Authority. I trust that Ptil will follow closely. They've been all along, and I've also assured myself that Petroleum Control has the tools they need to deal with the situation, not only on Goliath, but also on other platforms where there have been events.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e479	It is not the first time the authorities reveal that the oil company does not seem to follow up serious errors that are pointed out, that Eni Norway should have closed errors on the paper without it being fixed in reality. As Technische Ukeblad wrote in 2016, the company also dropped earlier to follow up serious breaches of the legislation related to logistics on lifting equipment and lifting equipment. At that time, the Petroleum Control Authority had pointed out the same regulatory breach both in 2012, 2014 and 2015, and in 2016, without clearing it up. Despite breaking, the platform was opened for production. The clothing is knitted and utilizes the Norwegian trust-based system. Therefore, I will again ask the Council of State whether there is a lower limit on how irresponsible a company can behave before it has serious consequences for the company's role on Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e486	The industry itself is responsible for complying with the legislation on health, the environment and safety, so the industry has a great responsibility to comply with the legislation. Who shall be licensed and operated is subject to the responsibility of the OED, but the Petroleum Authority is those who supervise the effective compliance of the companies with the applicable legislation. There have been challenges with Goliath. Petroleum regulators say there has been a positive development, progress, but there are challenges on the base. Now I also find that the trustees have been outside this week and have been very clear that they have confidence in their management, but the Petroleum Control will follow Goliath closely as well, not least because the production is now closed. It's going to be until Eni has corrected the deviations that Ptil has found, which were the basis for closing the platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e493	It opens for follow-up questions – first Lars Haltbrecken. Since the launch of the Goliath field a year and a half ago, the Petroleum Authority has repeatedly identified serious deficiencies in which Eni has not been able to clean up, despite promises of such cleanup. The report from the Petroleum Authority on Monday shows that Goliath may have been in breach of the safety rules on Norwegian pedestal since its launch. Therefore, I ask the Council of State to respond to the following: Why was it not only in October this year that the Petroleum Control found that the opening of production would be a breach of the rules on explosion hazards and then intervened and ordered Eni to close the oil production as it had started anyway? And: has production been sound up to this despite the lack of ignition source control on a device that has previously had gas leaks?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e506	As I said in my previous reply, the Petroleum Control has followed Goliath closely from the platform to the port of Korea. There have been challenges with the platform ever since. There have also been challenges since it arrived in the Barents Sea. The oversight has been more supervised by Goliath even after it was put into operation. The platform is now closed due to an electrical system failure. The supervision is close. I also assume that the supervision is tight, and that the platform does not start up again until all the deviations are closed. The Petroleum Control has assured me that they will not allow the platform to resume operation until Eni has followed up the regulations. I have also assured myself that the supervision has the tools needed to follow up the platform. We are going to take health, environment and safety seriously, and we are not going to compromise on it, even when financial resources are at stake.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e515	Torstein Tvedt Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e520	The safety situation on the Norwegian base is serious. The risk of major accidents has increased and there is a steady flow of serious cases of breaches of safety legislation. In the Labour Party, we believe that the seriousness of the situation requires the government to take stronger action, especially on Goliath. I think the Council's response here today testifies that the Right does not see the seriousness of the matter that is now. One refers to ongoing processes and a staggering message that comes first in 2018. It's an approach I would have understood if the situation went from worse to better. Now it's the other way around. The improvements we expect are absent. Today's approach from the government, I obviously don't work. My question is then: How long will the government tolerate the fact that a new break and a worsening situation will continue before a stronger step in and take more concrete action?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e527	It is difficult to think that you are passive when a platform is closed. This means that it is serious when the Petroleum Monitoring Board goes to it and actually shuts down a platform because of health, the environment and safety. It is also clear that you should not start up again until these deviations are closed. It is precisely because we believe that health, the environment and safety on Norwegian pedestal are important, and we should not compromise on that either. When we said one year ago that we wanted to look at HMS on a Norwegian base, in the form of a staging message, it is precisely because we see that Norwegian oil and gas production is at a junction now. We have seen that there has been an unwanted development over time, and we believe it is time to see if there are other tools and instruments that are needed to ensure safety well enough. We have now received the report of the Committee of Experts, and even if you essentially join the regime as it is today, there are also some suggestions on what can be done differently, and of course we will take this into account. But we're not going to wait to do it pending a message. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e534	That's it. Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e541	As the main questioner said, the Goliath platform is the first oil platform in the Barents Sea and has since its launch been characterised by a number of problems, defects and deficiencies, among others. with the ignition source control. Eni Norway, a subsidiary of Italian Eni, is an operator with 65 pst. ownership, while Statoil owns 35 pst. Serious life and health risks identified by the Petroleum Authority have not been corrected by the operator before starting up, despite strong warnings from the Petroleum Authority. Production, as the Minister said, has been closed since 5 October, when supervision required Eni to complete the monitoring of potential sources of ignition and measures taken before oil production could be resumed. Is the Norwegian trust-based supervisory and control system adapted to foreign actors on Norwegian base?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e550	I think maybe the Norwegian tripartite cooperation and trust-based system have been unfamiliar to some companies, but we also see now that Eni has taken hold and followed up much better now than you might have experienced that they did before. They're following orders, and the Petroleum Control is close and careful that all the orders are now actually being followed up, as you're supposed to do. The industry has been given a great responsibility in Norwegian petroleum activities. The parties have been entrusted with a major responsibility in the Norwegian petroleum industry. When the Engen Committee presented its report earlier in the fall, it was precisely one of the things that the parties thought was important to continue, and that there was a strength in both the Norwegian way of supervising and the Norwegian way of operating the petroleum business – the trust-based way. That doesn't mean you shouldn't follow up. On the contrary, it is important that they closely follow up on health, the environment and safety. It has also been done by the Petroleum Control, not least in this case, where you may have gone beyond what has been normal, by shutting down production.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e559	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e564	Goliath expansion is a scandal, both because it is doubtful whether it is ever going to be profitable for society and society, and of course also because there have been many mistakes and shortcomings – and there are errors and shortcomings that have been corrected on paper without having been corrected in reality. When we go into a situation where the economy of petroleum activity is likely to get worse, at lower prices, we will have more fields that will have a more difficult economy, and it will be doubtful whether it can give the social profitability. Eni is now breaking the confidence we need to follow the safety and HMS code. Are the Councils concerned, or how can it be discouraged, that this confidence-based safety system will be weakened in the years to come, where the petroleum industry is likely to enter a more difficult economic period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e571	We must recognise that we are at a crossroads in the petroleum sector. That's for a lot of reasons. One is that you have to go through a green shift, and the oil and gas industry – even if it is still important to us – will have a different meaning than before. The price is not least decisive. The profitability is more critical. My message to the industry has always been that there should be no compromise on health, the environment and safety, at least not when the economy is tighter. On the contrary, it is important to keep the HMS tab high even if the cost picture is different from now. I trust that the Petroleum Control will closely follow up the oil industry and the companies out there, but there is no doubt that the challenges are great. That is also why we have now started a reporting work – the report of the Committee of Experts came earlier this fall, as I mentioned in previous answers – because that is the basis for looking at: Do we have the tools we need? Should you do this another way? Should one look at another way of supervising? It's a little too early to conclude now, but these were some of the recordings I wanted to get, among other things. from the expert committee, and then Stortinget gets the opportunity to debate this for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e578	Tore Storehaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e584	Governments have been asked about Goliath, which has been characterized by a number of scandals. The platform has been shut down and the Council of State itself says that it has met with the Director of Petroleum Control. I notice that the Council of State says that it is business that is responsible for complying with the legislation and that progress is being made. It reminds me a little bit of what the Minister of Oil and Energy has said to the media, when he says that he assumes that the statements of Eni itself are correct, that they spend time and resources satisfying security requirements, and that he will not do anything further on that. But as the main question here was raised, it is actually that relationships have been found, which are pointed out by the Petroleum Authority, where the company has reported back that things should be improved, without it having been done. Does the Council of State mean that a company that deliberately violates the security regulations should not be sanctioned?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e591	The granting of licences and operators does not belong to my department, it is the Ministry of Oil and Energy that does. My department is supervising security. But it is – as the Minister for Oil and Energy says – the industry that is responsible for ensuring that they comply with the laws and regulations, the HMS Code and others, that take care of the lives and health of employees, and that production is safe. So the industry must have that responsibility, and must have that responsibility. It's always been like that, and so it has to be. It is clear that it is not acceptable for companies not to comply with obligations. As I have said in my previous answers: The Petroleum Control has followed Goliath closely from the beginning and still closer in the last few years. The Petroleum Control has now taken steps to close down, which is a rather drastic tool to implement. It's very rare that you do it. It also shows the seriousness of the matter. I trust that the Petroleum Control will follow up Goliath in a good way, and in the way they should, just to ensure the safety of the employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e600	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e605	The question goes to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. We constantly look into future digital opportunities – driverless minibuses in the streets and robots that show way in the hospitals. Technology can help us with routine tasks, new services and more personalized services, including in the public sector, but there are also some challenges: the outsourcing of ICT operations in Health South-East reminds us of both vulnerability to managing personal data and lag in investment, upgrades and so-called digital infrastructure. Facilitating secure digital motorways for public service production will be one of our major tasks in the coming years. In the state sector, Nav, Skatetataten, the State Loan Fund for Education, Police and Health South-East have each made their own experience in the development and acquisition of ICT systems. According to the Riksrevision, some have done well, but the common denominator is often large exceedances and little cooperation and learning across public sectors. But the question is what the stand is like in the second part of the Norwegian public sector, in the municipalities. I have asked the Swedish Research Department a simple question about how many databases are in use in the municipalities that manage sensitive personal data. They came back with two answers and they both scared me, unfortunately. The big answer is that no one in Norway can answer, we don't know. The second answer is based on an estimate with a variation between 50 and 200 databases and systems per. municipality. So they suggest a minimum of 20,000 databases under municipal control in Norway. On Friday, I'm going from the Left to Estonia to hear what they've done to become one of Europe's most digitised countries. With their X-road platform, they have one database per. public sector, total 13. Health South-East has 830, Health West turns into one in 2018, while Norwegian municipalities may have several tens of thousands. My question is whether it is in the interests of the big community that the development of the systems is left to chance. And if not, what is the status of the coordination of digitisation in municipalities now?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e618	There is both an important question that the representative raises, and there are many questions on the issue. Let me start with the starting point, that digitization is an important tool. It is an important tool for faster and better services for citizens and businesses, an important tool for improving the efficiency of the public sector, and also for making the public sector a more attractive employer for skilled workers. I agree that there are also some challenges. Information security, privacy shall be at the bottom. It is not that outsourcing itself is a risk related to information security. Outsourcing may also be necessary and appropriate because you need the skills in other disciplines. We've also seen Estonia. Estonia has its X-road. Now we get a Norwegian version of it by establishing a common integration point that could help to achieve a seamless exchange of archiving systems in the public sector and against Altinn and digital mailboxes. In the case of municipalities, it's basically municipal responsibility. It is true that many municipalities, with vulnerable trade unions, have significant challenges. We see that larger municipalities, like the representative and I agree that there are many benefits to them, can also help to get stronger ICT environments. What we have now taken the initiative to do, together with the KS, is to establish cooperation between the state and the municipality in the digitisation of services, so that we go across leadership levels – citizens can relate to the service and not to whether it is a state or municipality – and that the municipalities now receive funds so that they can contribute to a faster digitisation of the municipal sector. I think that will also lead to progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e636	I thank you for your answer. I address the question of follow-up to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Nav is perhaps one of the best examples of a team that has a lot to pick up on systems that talk to each other, and on a team that stands in the midst of a revolution in how digitisation, hopefully, contributes to better services. Robots are part of the service provision of the future. They are best at routine tasks, and there are many routine tasks in Nav that can be performed automatically and release resources to meet people. Nav has been conducting digitisation projects over a decade, but new and up-to-date systems are still needed to facilitate users. Nav is partly municipal and partly stately. About half of the municipalities have let Nav take over the social office, the others don't. So my question is: does the digitisation of Nav work turn out differently in the municipal and state parts of the service?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e647	The answer to that question is probably partially yes. There are partly different systems between state and municipality, so the digitisation is probably different there. There is also a difference between what information is actually available from the various information systems. There are also some privacy considerations that make it not as easy to share some information. But the state part of Nav is doing a great job of digitizing, of finding web solutions, by making more and more accessible to people on the web. The largest Nav office today is nav.no, where you can sit around 24 hours a day and get answers to questions and submit forms. We will also do more of this in the future, both because it is more user-friendly – users want to get more and more digital – but also because it frees significant resources for Nav to be able to spend its time on people with more complex challenges than those of us who can find the answers themselves online.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e652	It opens up for follow-up questions – first the representative Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e657	Thank you. I was ready, President. I intend to follow up with questions to the Minister for Transport. Digitalisation, I believe, is one of the most important challenges for the Norwegian public sector – except for those who believe that the main challenge here is to get the pay cuts back on paper – for both municipalities and schools. Seeing that people with home services use tablets offensively and get better services from it is about making Nav more seafarer – it's about giving power back to the citizens. Now we can really build a state that people can control from the sofa or from the kitchen table, and make services for them. But the budget proposal from the Minister for Transport states that there are major geographical differences as to who gets these digital services through our network. Why in the world is the broadband supply cut – when you know that we need to build a public state that is effective?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e666	It is important to have infrastructure for digital services available throughout the country, and infrastructure through fibre or mobile networks is particularly important. Now it is not just the country that contributes financially to this – in fact, the country contributes to a very small proportion of this. The important thing here is to make the market work. We see that the market, the big telecom companies, is investing over three billion. kr more in 2017 than they did in 2013. That, I think, is a much better policy than discussing tens of millions of dollars in the difference between the subsidy scheme. And we see that the states that have had the worst coverage, where the situation was worst when today's government took over, are the ones that have received the greatest growth in appropriations. Although the total pot has gone down slightly, the money has become more focused. Sogn and Fjordane get almost 250 pst. more money in support now than under the previous government. Hedmark and Uppland, the other two most disadvantaged states, have almost doubled their support. So targeting funds is much more important than distributing money where the market works.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e673	Siri Gassemyr Staalese – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e679	My question goes to the Minister of State. Our birth number system is getting full, there are soon no more birth numbers left. The People's Register is a bearer of our society. The public register forms the basis for significant parts of public administration, research and social planning. In addition, large parts of the private sector use the public register to perform statutory tasks. Modernisation of the register therefore has an impact on large parts of the public and private sectors. How has the municipal minister prepared the municipalities for the major reform that will mean a great deal to the ICT systems in the municipal sector? Is compensation planned for municipalities for the additional costs of this reform for all municipalities in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e688	It is right for the representative to point out that the public register is now being modernised. That is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, but it is an important common component for the entire digital infrastructure – to use a little difficult words. Many relate to the population register, so it's important that it's modernized and up-to-date. All state agencies have now been given a responsibility to engage in dialogue with the municipalities and the municipal sector when implementing digital projects that have consequences for the municipal sector. I assume that there is a dialogue the Ministry of Finance has with the KS – which is the municipal organisation – and, to the extent that it leads to additional expenditure, it is also a tradition for it to be compensated.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e695	Heidi Greni – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e701	My question also goes to the Minister of State. The national audit report shows that the country spends 12 billion annually. kr for consulting services, about half is related to ICT, i.e. about 6 billion. kr. In the management area of five departments, more than 1 billion are used. SEK for consulting services — justice and health spends 2 billion. every, transport, knowledge, work and social spends 1 billion. kr each. The National Audit Report is addressed to the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation, which is responsible for overall coordination of central government. It recommends that the Ministry, together with Diffi, be a more active driver for the use of guidance, project methodology and other support for the purchase of consultancy services. In response to the Riksrevision, Sanner says that the department and diffi only have an indicative role. My question is: will the Council of State ensure that the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, as the responsible department for coordination in central government, initiates more stringent and consistent guidelines on the use of consultancy services by central governments?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e714	My answer to that question lies in the answer I have given to the Riksrevision, I have no other answer to that. But what lies behind the question from Greni is the extent to which the state itself is to build up its own competence in the department and the directorate and hire more – or rather to use the market. Then my answer is that in many cases it is right and necessary that the department and the directorate buy services in the market of private companies rather than hire more in the public sector. I think that might be necessary, because that's skills you need. In some other cases, we encounter criticism from the Center Party that bureaucracy is growing too much. But we can't hire everyone in the public sector, we also have to use the market where it's necessary and right. Now we're working on a proposal made by the Left, to which the bourgeois parties joined, which is also about the border between what the state should do itself and where to use the market. It could also provide some useful answers to the question of what to produce yourself, and where to use consultants and private companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e721	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e726	My question goes to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Around Norway, thousands of parents make self-sacrifice efforts every day to care for their seriously ill children, whether acute or permanent. Being able to provide such care at the same time as having to bear the pain of seeing the sufferings of their own children is another challenge that needs to be experienced before a person fully understands how tough it is. The care allowance scheme in the Swedish Social Security Act is a benefit that contributes significantly to the burden of living with parents who are living daily in such a demanding care situation. We in the Christian People's Party believe that it is too unwise to view this as a social security or social welfare scheme. This can as well be defined as the salary of the state and large-scale society and the propensity of parents who daily make a great effort to care and alleviate the suffering of their own children, thus also helping to save society from excessive expenditure on the health budget. The Christian People's Party believes that it is a political responsibility to facilitate the support of children and families with additional challenges. That is why we want a better care arrangement. We are pleased that a total increase has now asked the government to come back with proposals for changes to the care scheme that ensure more financial security and predictability for parents with care tasks. The changes in the care system adopted in ours, which the Christian People's Party did not vote for, are now coming into force. The Christian People's Party believes that we therefore need to look at what kind of changes we can make in the 2018 budget. We'll suggest you give 100 pst. compensation instead of 66 pst, which was adopted in the spring. We have also asked budgetary questions about other changes, without getting answers from the Ministry in time for the presentation of our alternative budget. The answers are now available from the department, but we see that there are different assumptions to those we used to base our questions. So my question to the Council of State is: What kind of action does she think is most relevant to improving the care system?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e739	The government put forward proposals for a new care scheme and adopted it in ours — extensive changes to a scheme that had been criticised for many years, among others. of families who felt that they were not getting the help they needed. In the past, the possibility of falling under the scheme was very limited. You had to have children who didn't have a permanent illness, you went out and into the scheme, it was not predictable, it was difficult, with many judgements, and it was very different practice around the country. That was the reason why we changed the system to include permanently ill children, and to enable both parents to withdraw care money at the same time, including at home. It wasn't before. Thus, much of the unforeseeability and judgements against which the other scheme was criticised were removed. That means we've incorporated twice as many children, between 8,000 and 9,000 more children than before, and the budget has doubled. So I've seen of the discussion this fall that there's a little different perception of what the care scheme should be. Should there be a temporary income insurance scheme for families who have been or are in work, as both the old and the new schemes are? Or should it be a state allowance? I'm going to think it's this, regardless of whether you've been in work or not, Christian People's Party, as I understand it, now takes the floor. So it'll be a completely different system than the one the government proposed and got adopted in ours. We have thought that the arrangement we have adopted is a very good one. The size was also granted an exception in case of a relapse for seriously ill children, which we believe will cover up for the criticism that has come. But, of course, we will engage in dialogue with the Storting on what changes to make. It is also important that the Storting come up with an assessment of the direction you want to go: Should it be a state care allowance, regardless of whether you have income or not, or should it still be a temporary income insurance for families who have been in work, which both the old and the new schemes add up to?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e752	When the Storting in our treated care arrangements, the purpose was the very best of the government. It was proposed to extend the target population so that parents of children with a long-term illness who need continuous supervision and care were also entitled to care allowance. It was a grip that we in the Christian People's Party fully supported. However, one of the assumptions in the government’s proposal to change the care scheme was that all parents who receive care for their sick children lose the right to full pay compensation beyond one year. The Christian People's Party warned against the change when the matter was up in Stortinget, and we voted against reducing the allowance rate to 66 pst. after one year. Several media surveys earlier in the autumn have documented how this change became a major additional burden for parents who have children with serious illness and with treatment courses that extend well beyond a year. What does the Council of State think about the proposal to give 100 pst. compensation instead of 66 pst, which was adopted in the spring, so that parents with very ill children do not get an additional burden of reducing the allowance after a year?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e759	I think there's consensus in that room that we want to give a handshake to families who care for their seriously ill children. We've also seen a lot of examples of how demanding it is for many of these families. We just want to facilitate good arrangements for families who care for their sick children. When we proposed to significantly extend the scheme by including an estimated between 8 000 and 9 000 more families and doubling the budget by more than half a billion dollars, we also had to have a framework on it. That's when we said we're equalizing the compensation for these families with their own disease. That's how all the other benefits in the population's security are such that you get 100 pst. the first year of sick leave, and then it's 66 pst. If you go into the redundancy scheme or the redundancy scheme, we think there has been a certain consistency in that change. It's too early to say that this will have dramatic consequences. The scheme entered into force on 1 October. For the time being, no one has come into the new scheme. We believe it is good, but note that the Storting wants changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e766	It opens for follow-up questions – first Olaug V. Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e772	I'm recording that the Council of State is looking at the care scheme as a social security fund. The Christian People's Party sees it as a work for society for the benefit of the young. In the budget work, the Christian People's Party has asked questions about the proceeds of several aspects of the care scheme that has now been adopted. Some of the possible improvements to this care scheme do not necessarily entail large expenditure for the state, but they have a significant impact on families. Therefore my question becomes: what is the reason why the government, when we know that there is not so much proceeds, did not already in our proposal propose a system that gave more economic security and predictability to the families who are struggling – when one knows that the effect is not great economically?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e777	The scheme that we put forward, and which we adopted, was correct with a change for the seriously ill children, will be a significantly better arrangement than the old one – a more predictable system, less discretion, more incorporated, and fewer will go out and enter into the scheme as the old one provided for. So all in all, this system will result in better rights and more predictability for the families now included in it. We meant to go from 100 pst. to 66 pst. was a reasonable scheme, thus equalising the compensation for the care of sick children with their own illness. And then I record that there is a different perception in this room about the care allowance scheme being a temporary income insurance scheme for families who have income, as the old scheme was, and as the new one adds up to be, or whether there should be a state care allowance for families who take care of tasks on behalf of the municipality. I believe that the care scheme should continue to be a temporary income insurance scheme, but I note that there is disagreement in the room about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e782	Arild Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e787	I must say that I am amazed at the answer given by the Council of State to the question in this matter. The majority has instructed the government to propose a new and better care scheme. It was done several weeks ago. I had expected that the government was already working on that work – as far as I remember, it was also Right-wing and voted in favour of that proposal. The Labour Party also supported that proposal because we believe it is urgent. A lot of people are waiting for the signals about how the future care scheme is going to be. We know that already after one year, the care allowance scheme will be reduced from 100 pst. to 66 pst. of wages and salaries. For a family with the very sickest children, where both parents have to be at home, it will be reduced already after six months, so for some, the reduction may come as early as April 2018. My question is: can the Minister of Labour confirm that she is now working so quickly that she will present a proposal that the Stortinget will be able to deal with within that time?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e794	Of course, we should follow the decision of Storting. There is also a motion for a resolution for a resolution tabled by Mr Stortinget on the same subject. But it is almost tempting to ask the Workers' Party back again: Does the Workers' Party want a state care allowance, as the Christian People's Party puts up, and which I assume will apply regardless of whether you have been in income or not? Or do you want the care allowance to continue to be a temporary income insurance scheme for families who have been in work? The different options taken will have quite different consequences for the scheme. Now, if we're going to introduce a state allowance, regardless of whether you've been in income or not, and it's going to be unlimited, regardless of the severity, and it's going to be 100 pst. wages and salaries will require significantly more research than the budgetary questions have made it possible to do in advance. So I think we're going to go into discussion and dialogue with the Storting now: do we want to go one way, or do we want to go the other way? It will have quite a big impact on how the scheme becomes, a bit depending on which route you take. We are prepared to follow the decision of the Storting – but we have to agree on the direction we are going to take, because there are quite different directions the Storting is talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e801	Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e806	As the Council of State noted, the care allowance scheme was intended as a temporary solution or as a temporary compensation. But the change that has been made – the new scheme – has given a time limit that has affected some families. The hearing on the draft representative to which the Minister referred revealed that the families most affected, with the longest conditions, have no coverage beyond the five years that are now the limit. There are almost 50 people who are reported to have a need for care for three years or more. These are the parents of the most seriously ill kids. These were transferred to a new care allowance scheme from 1 October and now receive a maximum of 260 days with 100 pst. coverage rate. This group is not large and does not constitute large sums of money for the state, while there are large extra burdens for the families. The council agrees that these families have a special need for allowance of 100 p.m. coverage rate, even beyond one year?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e813	The care allowance scheme has always been temporary. It has never been a permanent arrangement. It's been a temporary arrangement for families. In the past, one had to have children who did not have a permanent illness. Now you say that children who have a long-term illness can also be integrated. Very few people were allowed to go beyond what you might call temporaryity, and it was the families that had children with progressive disease, that is. that you might be thinking about the worst possible outcome. So we have to remember what the old scheme was and what it wasn't. We have been committed to integrating more, making the scheme better and less discretionary, and helping fewer families to be sent out and out of the scheme, because it was also a reality in the past. We've been thinking of 66 pst. compensation after one year has been justifiable, also because it is treated as equivalent to the other benefits in the social security system. We also believe that the derogation adopted by the Stortinget during its treatment will largely take care of those families, even when you see... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e820	That's it. Solfrid Lerbreck – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e827	I note that the Council of State does not have any specific thoughts about the improvement of the scheme, which Stortinget has asked the government to do. On Monday's hearing about the care arrangements, seven instances met and all pointed out the same problems. Firstly, the loss of income for those who have sick children over half a year or one year, and secondly, for children with life-threatening diseases to be expelled from the scheme when the period of care is over if the disease is chronic, and thirdly, for those over 18 years of age with a developmental disability, the age limit is not exceptional even if they may have a much lower mental age, and therefore parents need hospitalisation or sick leave. What concrete advice do the councils of families have that will experience this reduction in income, and eventually will lose all the care money, after five years?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e834	Once again, I must stress that the care allowance scheme that we have proposed, which has recently entered into force, has some similarities with the previous one, and that is that it is a temporary income insurance scheme for families who have had income. The differences are great, that you include a lot more families, not least because you make sure that your sick children are also included, and that now it is easier for your parents to take care of them. At the same time, and this was not the case in the past, you can get a care allowance after the child reaches the age of 12. You couldn't have done that before if the child was admitted to an institution, etc. I mean, the level of compensation that we add up to, by 100 pst. the first year, which may be extended over a longer period, and 66 pst, are sound. Then I register that the Storting wants to change the scheme, but I can ask the same question to SV as I asked to the Workers' Party: Does SV, like the Christian People's Party, want this to be done from a temporary scheme for families with income to become a general state care wage? Or do you want to keep the temporaryity, which is both the old and the new regime? I don't get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e842	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e847	Here's a state council that's been waiting for questions, so now it's going to get it. It's the Minister of Transport. I come straight from the Verftsconferencing in Ålesund today, and I'm going to greet the nutritionists there and say that they have expectations that the Council of State will impose stricter environmental protection requirements in the case of new offers to our coast route. The environmental organisations are also very concerned about this and say the same thing. In the national transport plan, there is a target of 50 pst. emissions cut by 2030 in the transport sector. However, in the government's own bid for the Bergen–Kirkenes coast route for the period 2020-2029, which is currently operated by Hurtigruten, the price is the most significant. The ships shall have only 25 pst. lower CO 2 emissions than the current vessel and they must use shore power only where available, i.e. make ambitions there. Today, land flow is available in only 4 out of 34 ports, and I agree with the maritime industry and the environmental movement, which believes that these are far too low ambitions, yes, that it simply shows the lack of climate ambitions that the Council of State has actually committed itself to. My question is simple: why does the Council of State put lower ambitions for reducing emissions in the coastal route offer than the government itself and the Stortinget have committed themselves to in both the Paris agreement and the national transport plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e861	I am proud that we have introduced stricter environmental requirements in the coastal route than any previous government has done, so that we actually take important steps to reduce emissions. One shall have lower emissions than those on today's ship, a tender made under the previous government. This means that there will be emission reductions. This means that technology will be used if a new ship is ordered or when upgrading existing ships, compared to what has been done. To give the impression that there are no ambitions is going to be completely wrong. The fact that there are not very many shore power plants today is correct. That's why today's government has invested a lot of money through Enova to be able to expand several land power plants. One might want to discuss why it hasn't been developed in the past. Well, now it happens. Then we demand that they be used. So there's a lot going on here that's good. In addition, we know that in the maritime industry, through the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, we have come up with a wide range of support schemes, such as wreckage on old ships, green technology in shipping, etc. Enova supports the development of hydrogen ferries. We're going to have over 50 ships with battery packs running our ferry network by 2020. To give the impression that nothing is happening, I believe it is completely wrong. It is true that today’s government also has great ambitions to cut unwanted emissions. The main drivers of the emissions are the road transport sector. And then we're going to do the biggest grips. It is now a huge sale of zero-emission cars or low-emission cars. We see that with the forecasts we have included in the national transport plan, emissions could be reduced by over 60 pst. in that sector. So that means that there's good reason to think that we're not just going to meet the Paris agreement, but are going to overfill it. With regard to the offer of the coastal route, it is important that we make a tender that will apply from 1 January 2021. Then we have to know that the ships that are going to operate there are actually possible to access. They are not likely to be in place by the industry. The industry itself says 2022 or later. This means that it is not possible to have a tender requiring technology that is not available.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e874	It's about public acquisitions, and we have a great responsibility to use our purchasing power and take responsibility for climate change mitigation when it comes to it. We already have an incredible amount of existing technology, and the ambitions of today's offer are worse than what you can deliver with today's technology. It's true, as the Council of State says, in the case of holiday offers, we've taken care of it. That's 100 million. extra to contribute to the development of technology, so that it is also offensive. What diffi referred to in the tender system is that it is fully possible to stop this offer and enter new criteria, and I think it is important to know if the Council of State is actually interested in looking at this, to assess it concretely and to listen to the industry and the environmental organisations. When can the Council say that land flow is clear in all the ports that apply to the coastal route, when it is said that Enova is working on it? What's the progress, and when can it be finished?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e881	In the case of ports, it is not the State that owns it, but it is the local actors. Then it is up to them to make sure that it is prepared to build shore-side electricity. They have to apply for it, and we have made sure that Enova has a lot of money to be able to do it. So here it's important to have a good cooperation with the ports, and at least we've experienced that we've had the last few years. With regard to the claim that it is possible to postpone something without any consequences: I have seen that the Workers' Party has claimed it in Technical Weekly, without any justification. So we're going to conclude a contract in the summer of 2018 – it's less than nine months from now. Thinking that someone can take a break and investigate things for a long time and then go straight back and make sure that those who are going to conclude the contract in 2018 have full predictability of what they are going to build, can count and take risks on a tender, I would like to see evidence from the Workers' Party before we relate to the claim. It has not been demonstrated by any actors. I fear that one puts the entire coastal route offer at risk with the approach the Workers' Party has taken, and I do not want to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e888	It opens for one follow-up question – from Ingelill Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e893	I belong to those who are happy in the Hurtigruten. I live at one of the points of call, and it constitutes the main road network – or highway no. 1 – for us coastal dwellers. We look forward to continuing this traffic along the coast, but we also want it to be in a more environmentally oriented version. Emissions from coastal traffic at sea should be an important part of the reduction of emissions in the transport sector and must contribute to cleaner air. Does the State Council know what the Bergen–Kirkenes coast route has about emissions today and is the level acceptable?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e898	The level is not acceptable. That is why we have called for it to come down. It's in the tender. I am also very happy in the coastal route, which is currently operated by the Hurtigruten. I believe it is a kind of institution in Norway, part of it to show Norway to tourists, and not least it is important for local transport. The challenge is to cover an area from Bergen to Kirkenes, 34 calls, where much of this happens in Arctic strips, which are quite stocky. That it is possible to sail a battery ferry over a fjord in the West is not the same as that this technology will operate from Bergen to Kirkenes, considering that we should also have predictability in terms of safety, access and all of this. That is what we have taken into account – that we are able to implement a tender where those who are going to compete about this have the predictability that the required technology is actually available. It is in the tender that it is fully permissible to deliver much more than this, so everyone who is optimistic on behalf of the Norwegian shipyard industry would be able to participate and ensure that the tenders deliver much more than what is required, if you think it is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e905	The oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e921	Thank you for the opportunity to explain. It is important that decisions are taken on a sound factual basis. I would strongly warn against the Storting joining the motion for a halt in all returns to Afghanistan. Such a decision could have major undesirable consequences. Firstly, the proposed decision involves a significant shift in the type of decisions to be the subject of political discussion. But I also fear that the decision will open up an increased asylum flow to Norway after a period of record low arrivals, as Norway will be the only country in Europe – as far as we know – that will stop all returns to Afghanistan. UDI and UNE decide on asylum applications in accordance with the applicable legislation and information on the situation in the countries from which the applicants come. In-depth and individual assessments are made on each case. Afghans in need of protection receive asylum regardless of age. However, much remains to be done before the general security situation is so serious that any return to a country or region would be contrary to Norwegian law and our international obligations. UDI and UNE are based in particular on factual information from Landinfo. Landinfo is a professionally independent body that has distinguished itself both domestically and internationally with its competence, and their reports are used as a source of foreign agencies in many countries. Most Landinfo reports, as well as their guidelines on source and information analysis, are publicly available so that everyone can see how they work. However, it is important to remember that Landinfo does not participate in the UDI and UNE proceedings, and they do not consider it appropriate to return a person to their home country. In the asylum agreement of 19 November 2015 between all parties on the Stortinget, except SV and MDG, it is called inter alia. that you must: ‘Assess key aspects of Norwegian foreign legislation and review Norwegian practices where Norway has a different assessment of the need for protection of different nationalities compared to practices in countries with which it is natural to compare. The Government is asked to review on an ongoing basis proposals for legislative changes, regulatory changes and to adjust the relevant instructions with a view to achieving tightening. ‘... In 2015/2016, the UDI itself initiated a review of its own practices for asylum seekers from Afghanistan. The review showed that the UDI had set a lower threshold for assessing the safety situation than the relevant legal sources, including practices of the European Court of Human Rights, other countries’ practices and the EU Status Directive should provide. The European Court of Human Rights has set a very high threshold in a number of judgments for any return to be contrary to Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. As a result of this review, the UDI raised the threshold for a territory in Afghanistan to be considered as generally unsafe. That is, there are currently very few areas in Afghanistan that are considered so unsafe that everyone from there has the right to protection – only the provinces of Helmand and Nangarhar. However, on a case-by-case basis — even if he comes from these two provinces — consideration will be given to whether internal migration is an option. If it is assessed that this is possible, they will not be protected. Norway shall assess internal migration whenever possible. Other European countries do too. If protection is possible in your own country, there is no requirement for international protection, either under the Refugee Convention or under the Foreign Affairs Act. Moreover, after raising the threshold in 2016 for when an area is so unsafe that anyone coming from it can be said to have a need for protection, the UDI has also made decorations in practice on the basis of what the UDI has seen as aggravating the security situation in Afghanistan. UDI and UNE carefully assess the situation in the individual areas of Afghanistan and continuously assess the need for change in practice. UDI Director Frode Forfang recently informed that a few days ago they have made a further assessment of whether it is safe to return persons whose asylum application has been refused back to Afghanistan. They have not found any basis to change their judgements. Information on the practices of other countries concerning asylum seekers from Afghanistan shows that there is no basis for saying that Norwegian practices are significantly stricter than those of other European countries with which it is natural to compare. There are no other comparable countries — no other comparable countries — who believe that the overall security situation in Afghanistan, including Kabul, implies that all asylum seekers from there have a need for protection. Nor are there any signs from other European countries that they intend to stop returning to Afghanistan due to the safety situation, nor from Sweden. The Swedish Migration Agency stated in August that although the safety situation in Afghanistan is serious, returns are possible to several areas, including Kabul. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees assists Afghans with their return from Pakistan and Iran to their homeland. Only in 2017 have very many travelled back from these countries. The return of persons without protection is important in order to maintain confidence in the institution of asylum. There is a broad consensus on the Stortinget that people will return without a legal stay. In the asylum agreement from 2015, it was working for a quick return of people with a refusal that was the first point. It was stressed that the government should give priority to ‘the rapid return of persons who have been denied their asylum application and, in particular, to the return of groups where this will have an impact on the future flow’. Norway is at the forefront of Europe’s return implementation, including Afghanistan. This is due to the fact that return work has been a very high priority with funds and high government figures, while a broad majority in the Grand Duchy, through the asylum agreement, underlined the importance of giving priority to the rapid return of people who have been refused. The EU has also worked hard, especially after the 2015 refugee crisis, to reach a political framework agreement with Afghanistan to facilitate returns from Member States. Such an agreement was signed in October 2016. Other European countries come to us to learn, and several European countries have also concluded their own return agreements with Afghanistan, and they are now able to return people with coercion. It would then be alarming if Norway were to stop returning and go in the opposite direction to the rest of Europe. We return adults over 18 years of age, but we do not return children to Afghanistan without being accompanied by their parents or having a care offer there. The limited authorisation granted to lone minors aged 16 to 18 years — who do not provide a basis for permanent residence — is important because it can help prevent families from sending children away. Children who are entitled to protection receive it. If there is no need for protection but there are strong human considerations for residence, stay on a humanitarian basis. The temporary authorisation of lone minors between 16 and 18 years of age is granted only to children who have no grounds for residence other than lack of adequate care in return. According to the UDI, 340 single minors from Afghanistan have been granted such a limited authorisation so far in 2017, while 242 have received protection or residence on a humanitarian basis. Studies by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, the UN Children's Fund and the International Organization for Migration, IOM, support the fact that the desire for a better life is a motivation for many migrants. Uncertainty and conflict are contributing to their journey to Europe, but the possibility of work and development opportunities is the motivation given by most people. This can be understood, but it does not provide a basis for protection. Research supports the fact that minors most often travel in consultation with the family, and destination countries are selected from the point of view of where it is easier to obtain permanent residence. It is not the poorest families who send their children, but those who have their own funds, or who can borrow. The price tag of human traffickers is between $3,000 and $20,000. There has been a sharp decrease in the number of lone minor Afghans coming to Norway. In 2015 they amounted to 65 pst. Of all the lone minors who came to Norway, almost 5,500 were. By September of this year, they are only 21 pst. by lone minors who have come to Norway. The number so far this year is less than 200. I would also like to remind you of what the previous government wrote in the preparations for the current Foreign Affairs Act, about the department's access to instruct UDI and UNE on the postponement of the implementation of decisions. The bill presented by the government of Stoltenberg II states: ‘There may well be other situations in which there may be a desire for the Ministry/State Council to postpone the implementation of negative decisions, for example because different actors in the field believe that UDI and UNE are mistaken in their assessments of the general security situation in the country of origin of asylum seekers, etc. The Ministry considers that, even in cases where this would conflict with the applicable governance conditions, political authorities should be allowed to instruct on deferred implementation.’.» This shows that the previous government, with the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, also followed exactly the same principles as this government: this type of assessment should not be subject to political treatment. These assessments are carried out by the trade unions on an independent basis in accordance with the laws and regulations adopted by the Stortinget. I have full confidence in the work of the foreign administration. They are our experts to obtain asylum-relevant information from all relevant sources and to settle asylum cases under national and international law. I can't see how to put together an expert committee that will be better able to make these complex assessments. I would also like to remind you that we already have a system in which UDI and UNE practices are subject to review in the courts. It is unclear what status the expert committee's assessments are intended for in this system. It is assumed that the sample will have to be monitored and decided on on a continuous basis when the situation has improved, if appropriate, so that returns can be resumed. Does this also mean that the decisions of the panel may be brought before the courts? It also appears unclear whether the expert committee should assess the security situation in other countries or whether there is discrimination between Afghanistan and other asylum cases. The asylum system was previously largely subject to political influence and interference. This went away with good reason. I hope that there is a majority in favour of maintaining an asylum system where individual decisions are taken without political control. In any case, return will signal a new and significantly more liberal asylum practice in Norway compared with other countries we like to compare with. Research shows that the possibilities of remaining in a country have a bearing on which country is chosen as a destination. If Norway stops all returns to Afghanistan, I fear a significant increase in arrivals here. Even Afghans who are already illegally present in other European countries will find it attractive to come to Norway. It will be difficult for Norway to return them to other Dublin countries with a different return practice, if the Norwegian reason for stopping all returns to Afghanistan is that it is too unsafe to send someone back there. In summary, this is about two aspects in particular: Firstly, should Norway, as the only country in Europe – as I know – stop all returns to Afghanistan? As a result, Norway has a more liberal policy than Sweden, Germany and other European countries. This may help to ensure that several Afghan asylum seekers come to Norway. It may also mean that Afghans who are already illegally present in other European countries find Norway more attractive. As long as we have a possible return, Norway may appear as a port of refuge in Europe for Afghan citizens. Secondly, the very principle in the asylum system is that individual treatment and assessments of the countries to which it is appropriate to return rejected asylum seekers should not be subject to political intervention. The proposal is a politicisation of asylum assessments. I therefore hope that the majority of people vote against this proposal and support the good and important principles that have been widely endorsed for a number of years. The proposal opens up an unforeseeable asylum policy, which, through proposals in the Grand Duchy, intervenes in professional assessments made by the foreign authorities today. This has gone away for good reason a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e990	I would also like to thank you for the opportunity to explain what is in my area. Norway’s participation in international efforts to stabilise and develop Afghanistan is both long-term and comprehensive. Former Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende and I, as then Minister of Defence, gave a broad outline of Afghanistan and the Norwegian effort on 10 January this year. The starting point is the same today as when the statement was made. Progress has been made in a number of areas in Afghanistan, but there are still major challenges related to both security and economic development. The trends are mixed and do not give rise to any clear or simple conclusions. The examination of the statements related to the report of the Afghanistan Committee in our report showed broad agreement in the United Kingdom that precisely the nuances are important in the description of the situation in Afghanistan. While a comprehensive Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence expressed concern about the situation in the country, the majority of the Committee stressed at the same time that despite a number of persistent weaknesses and shortcomings, it had nevertheless been a positive development. Furthermore, ‘developing a modern, stable and democratic state takes time and long-term efforts are required in Afghanistan’. The government shares this assessment in full. At last year's major conference in Brussels, Afghanistan and donors agreed on a mutually committed framework for continued international assistance in exchange for real reforms and improved governance. On the part of the international community, including the Norwegian team, there is an explicit demand that the Afghan government intensify reform efforts and deliver even better in the future, including in the fight against corruption. The positive results have not come quickly enough or have been large enough to provide hope and confidence for the broad sections of the Afghan population. The armed conflict between the Afghan Government and the rebel groups continues with great strength. There are frequent fightings in many of Afghanistan's 34 provinces, and we are witnessing repeated terrorist attacks both in rural and urban areas. Both civilian and military losses remain significant. The conflict also affects Kabul City. Like the previous year, a number of complex attacks have also been carried out in Kabul in 2017. They are targeted at strategically important and high-profile targets, including symbols of international presence. This includes several attacks carried out by the IS. A UN report of August this year described the safety situation in 2016 and 2017 as worsening. The Taliban was on the march and had been able to exercise influence and control an increasingly large geographical area with a greater proportion of the Afghan population. According to the United Nations, the number of civilians killed and injured as a result of war acts peaked in 2016. A reduction of 6 pst. for the first three quarters of 2017 is a step forward, but it is still a modest comfort. The human consequences of the continuing conflict remain unacceptable. The negative safety situation continues to give rise to concern, and it illustrates why sustained international efforts and assistance are needed for a long time to come. There is a broad international consensus that the conflict in Afghanistan must be resolved politically. Norway has long been committed to communicating contacts between the parties to the dispute. We have also worked to lay the foundations for women's participation in a peace process and contributed to regional dialogue and support for a peaceful solution in Afghanistan. In this demanding image, it is important to act in the long-term and predictable manner. This has always been the government line, and it will continue to be. This policy has broad support in Stortinget. Afghanistan remains one of our largest aid countries. We will also maintain our important contribution to the training of Afghan security forces as part of the Resolute Support Mission, and in September this year we extended our strategic partnership agreement with Afghanistan. Let me say something about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Travel Council, which has been mentioned in connection with the returns. It is important to clarify what travel councils are, and who is the target group of travel councils. Decision on travel councils for Norwegian citizens and safety assessments related to the return of persons to their home country are different processes for different purposes and different target groups. Section 1 of the Foreign Service Act imposes a responsibility on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to provide assistance to Norwegian nationals abroad. As part of the consular assistance, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs offers advice and guidance to Norwegian citizens travelling abroad. Travel councils and travel information are published at government.no and are aimed at Norwegian travellers who are expected not to have detailed knowledge of local social conditions, languages and security. Travel councils and travel information are not targeted at the local population of a country, which has completely different conditions for staying in the countries concerned than the Norwegian traveller has. We have to assume that in many countries Norwegian travellers face threats other than the local population. Kidnapping is such an example, with which we unfortunately have some experience from recent years. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall issue official travel councils when there is a presumption of reason to advise Norwegians from travelling to a particular country, region or region or from leaving the country. The cause is usually war, warlike condition or other forms of unrest, which, after an overall assessment of the safety risk, suggests that Norwegian citizens should not go to the place or stay there. The embassies usually take the initiative to recommend the introduction of travel councils, but the introduction of travel councils is a professional decision taken in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The U.D. travel security information for Norwegian citizens is based on the embassy’s knowledge of local conditions and information available from local authorities and other relevant sources of information. Travel councils have been developed to a large extent in cooperation with other Nordic countries. There are three different levels of travel advice: the lowest level, which is requested to be careful when travelling to or staying in the country, the intermediate level, where travel to or staying in the country is advised not to be strictly necessary, and the highest level, where all travel to or all stay in the country is discouraged. Travel councils have currently been issued for 49 countries at different levels. For Afghanistan, travel councils have been issued at intermediate level and are as follows: ‘The Ministry of Foreign Affairs advises not to travel to or stay in Afghanistan which is not strictly necessary.’ We have issued intermediate travel councils to all or part of other countries, such as the United Kingdom. Algeria, Azerbaijan, Burkina Faso, Venezuela, Congo, Egypt, Pakistan and the Philippines. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not assess whether applicants for asylum have a need for protection which means that they cannot be returned to their country of origin. To make these kind of decisions, we have completely different processes and assessments. There are processes and assessments under the Ministry of Justice and Security, which the Minister for Immigration and Inclusion has just explained. Landinfo receives in some cases copies from foreign stations of relevant conditions, e.g. The human rights situation in a country, but it is Landinfo and not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that prepare reports for the administration of foreign affairs, i.e. UDI and UNE, on the situation in countries from which Norway receives asylum seekers. UDI and UNE assess asylum applications on the basis, inter alia, of: available country information obtained by Landinfo. These agencies are our national experts to obtain asylum-related information and to settle asylum cases under national and international law. Thus, asylum-relevant information differs from the U.D. General Travel Council to Norwegian citizens who are going to a country or an area. The U.D. Travel Council is not a signal to the population of a country to avoid residence in their own country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1033	The President will now propose that the distributions be followed by a short debate, cf. Paragraph 45, second paragraph, point (a) and the third paragraph, first sentence of the Rules of Procedure, with the amendment that speaking time is set at 3 minutes for both representatives and members of the Government. The President would also like to make it clear that there is a limit to one entry in each batch. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1042	First, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Immigration and Integration for the presentations, which have been made at short notice. It was necessary. In view of a wide gap in the safety assessments between sources and between countries, many have raised major concerns about the government’s return practice to Afghanistan. When so many questions are asked and so many different signals are given, there is cause for concern from the Storting. The main message from the Minister of Foreign Affairs is that the situation in Afghanistan is satisfactory. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to justify this in more detail in his final statement, because does the Minister for Foreign Affairs feel that there is full consistency between the safety assessments carried out in the United Nations and in the EU and the assessments supported by the government, which the Council of State has presented today? And how does the Secretary of State of the United Nations assess the latest report, claiming that there is a large increase in the number of attacks in Afghanistan? Two years ago, the Minister for Immigration and Integration was extended to instruct the administration. We have recently recorded that there is a question mark in the management of that authority. A responsible opposition is responsible – and has to take responsibility – then. When attempts to take this responsibility are dispelled with political games from the government party Progress Party, without any concern for the realities, it probably does not contribute to a better climate between the parties. One of the areas for which we are concerned is that the government and UDI practices do not correspond to the will of the majority of the population, and that is the high use of temporary residence for single minor asylum seekers and forced use. For this reason, the Workers' Party has submitted a proposal for a representative to ensure that assessments are carried out to ensure the best interests of children and the vulnerability of children. The Labour Party will now go through the two presentations given by the Councils before considering the proposal submitted by the SV, which will be dealt with by the week. It may also be natural for us to consider asking the government to return to the Storting on its own initiative if the security situation changes in the countries to which Norway returns asylum seekers. It's important that we can keep constantly informed about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1055	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister of Immigration and Integration and the Minister for Defence. It's always comforting and good to get. Sorry, it was from the Minister of Foreign Affairs – congratulations, otherwise. [[Laughter]] It is important that we be assured that each application is carefully evaluated and that it is possible to stay both on the basis of pure persecution and, as the minister mentioned here, on a humanitarian basis. There are no countries we know of, which have signaled that they will not send back those who have been rejected. The level of returns from European countries has also increased, precisely because the EU has put in place a policy framework agreement with Afghanistan. This has led to the start of returns. I am concerned if you would now adopt a stop of return. This means that the signal goes quite quickly to Afghanistan that Norway will be a haven for Afghans – which may later be sent home – because it actually gives false hopes. Both secondary immigration and immigration to Norway from Afghanistan will take place as long as we do not return those who are not allowed to stay. It is also important for the Dublin Regulation that the Storting will take such decisions. I want to thank you again for your briefing. We of course support the government in its advice to Stortinget that the Stortinget does not go in and process the case and obliges the government to stop the return.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1066	I would first like to thank you for two very good statements by the Council of State. This shows that the government does not take the situation lightly or on return to Afghanistan in any way. There are thorough assessments behind what is being done. This means that I have increased confidence in the system practised by the Norwegian authorities today, and of course it looks almost irresponsible to go in and make dramatic changes to it. The Councils of State have made this very clear to us. I think it is understandable that most people find it difficult to return to Afghanistan – for no one can easily say that they are sending young people to a conflict-affected country. But if we bring some more facts into the case, as this debate and this round have done, it will be easier to understand. When we remove the impression that Norway is almost alone in returning people to Afghanistan – as someone has managed to make it – that Norway has an inhumane policy that violates international agreements, rather pointing out that we would be all alone in Europe if we had not returned if we had agreed to this proposal, it would be easier to understand what the Norwegian authorities are doing and why we are doing it. It will also be easier to understand when we receive statements from the IOM that out of 20,000 Afghans returned, they have not experienced any security challenges for anyone. It puts things in a different perspective than what unfortunately has shaped Norwegian debate. I also find it strange that the Workers' Party needs time to consider what they are going to do on this issue, after the thorough presentation and the consequences that have been explained that such a proposal would have. The Labour Party has also made other proposals in Stortinget that raise doubts about the line Norway is going to take, and I think that is remarkable. They also have no other proposal of temporaryity — except that everyone has to stay in Norway for no reason. Nor does the Workers' Party want it, so I would like to encourage the Workers' Party to be clear and clear on what they think, to get on the road in this debate to explain its position on this matter, so that we release this wing, which sends out the wrong signals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1075	I will also be allowed to thank the State Councils for the presentation that has been made. It was necessary that the Storting should now be given the opportunity to obtain an up-to-date report from the government on the situation of repatriation to Afghanistan, for there is no doubt that it is the responsibility of the government to have a continuous overview of which areas of return are considered safe for asylum seekers who have been refused their asylum application. I therefore also agree with the questions asked by the representative of Aasrud, who it has been important for us to get a little deeper. It's about the cracking signals that have come from different agencies, and how the Minister of Foreign Affairs looks at it. I have also understood that there is a certain inequality between Norway and Sweden in what areas in Afghanistan are considered safe. I would also like the Councils to have elaborated in their final comments. The Centre Party considers these presentations to be an important part of the further assessment to be made in the Storting. These are demanding issues for many parties. We can allow ourselves in this round to dampen the rhetorical level a little bit and also agree that there are not simple things, because it concerns young people, and many of them are in a difficult situation. We have had temporary stays for young people between 16 and 18 years of age in Norway since 2009. We have adopted it and practised it, and there is no doubt that it has had a preventative effect on how many young people go to Norway. But it's also a question of how that temporaryity is practised. That's a question I think it'll be necessary to look further, among other things. in the case of a vulnerability criterion for that group, and also the way in which the vulnerability criterion is practised in the case of single minor asylum seekers. It is also important to look at the temporary arrangements adopted in the context of the asylum agreement two years ago, and to wish – or need – that they should be continued or not. State Council Listhaug was concerned with the long lines of immigration policy in Norway. One of the long lines is, for example, independence of UNE. A temporary change was made two years ago, which the government wants to continue. I think that is a very demanding question if we are to be consistent with the long lines of Norwegian immigration policy. The centre party believes it is important to bring together solutions in such matters as this. We've also had a tradition of that in many cases. Either the matter is now dealt with at the next big meeting, i.e. as soon as possible, or through further work in the committee, it is important for us to stress that the government must respect the work being done in the Storting and not escalate or in any way frustrate the mood regarding the number of broadcasts while the Storing is discussing such a question – until it is too important and difficult for those concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1090	The main principle of protection of international law is the prohibition of returning a person to an area where life and security are at risk and ensuring that any return is safe. That's what this is all about. This is a major gap between all publicly known reports from international organisations and the assessment that Norway uses in terms of the safety of returnees — in particular to Kabul. This is about the facts. I did not record that the Council of State responsible for this was involved in these factual assessments, despite the very serious facts mentioned in the Landinfo reports. I've read them. But I record that State Council Listhaug consistently chooses to misinform SV's proposal for a temporary return, until we have received an expert selection that can go through this system. For what we have heard, there is no really any correlation between what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is doing — which, of course, is well aware of the security situation, especially in countries where Norway is present — and what is done by security assessments before returning. From the reports available, we can see that there is a massive increase in human rights violations. There is the use of torture in prison, even by children, it is killing, and there is no authority that can protect against persecution in Kabul. In addition, the figures show that Kabul is now more dangerous than other provinces that are considered less safe. It's this fragment of fact that we have to clarify, and in which there was no clarity in the introduction of the Councils. In addition to that, we received facts about the government's agenda to ensure that as little as possible of those in need of protection come to Norway and get protection here. That is not what SV has asked for in this case. These are the facts that we've been concerned with. Yesterday, there was a new UNAMA report, which has also demonstrated that some of the things in Landinfo’s reports are no longer true, namely that there is an increase in attacks against specific groups in society, such as religious leaders — as the reports say it is not. So I want a fair debate on the facts. We'll get back to it when we're dealing with the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1101	We in the Left also think it is important to have a professional thoroughness when going into discussions like this. This is also why we have in the past wanted to create a common Nordic Landinfo, in order to make sure that there is perhaps an even larger group of professionals who can assess – believing that a small secretariat should have an overview of all developments in the various regions around the world, that is quite demanding – plus that it would also have ensured that there was no debate on whether Landinfo provided a professional assessment related to human rights and international conventions, or whether they were instructed by political authorities in each country. There are two things here that are considered unreasonable. One is people's opinion when we send children who have come here, back to internal refugees in the country they come from. There are two tightenings that have been made by the majority in the Biggest, which I think are breaking with people's sense of justice, and that is what is creating challenges now. It is the reasonableness assessment of internal flight that was removed when the Workers' Party and the Centre went in and backed up the government on such a change. That's the main challenge here now. The second is what was introduced by the red-green government that SV has fought hard against – as I point out, because they were not involved in the decision – namely giving temporaryity to young people. I think that's what fundamentally violates people's perception here. I hope both that we can get back the reasonableness assessment, and that we will stop giving temporary leave to young people who come here. I hope that it is possible to create a majority because when we now see the consequences of the policy we have actually voted for in this Chamber – not all of us. What is my main question after hearing the statements of the Councils — which brought a lot of factual information, but it did not mention what people are upset about — is: Is there any other country in Europe that sends children — children who have come there as children — back to exile in Afghanistan? I think that's what people feel is unfair. The left is not concerned with stopping all Afghanistan returns, but as for those who have come here as children, and who are sent back to Afghanistan's internal flight, I don't think there are so many countries that do. I think that's where you find what people see as fundamentally unfair with the policy that's now being implemented. The left is going to be on both to get back the assessment of fairness and to actually treat children as children when they also provide asylum applications to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1111	Thank you for the presentations. The speech by the Minister for Immigration and Integration saw me as the only defence for current Norwegian policy. The speech by the Minister for Foreign Affairs focused more on the security situation. From the Christian People's Party's point of view, this case came up because we're returning children to Afghanistan, to a very insecure future. It was said that they were not children, because they were 18 years old, but they are actually sitting on temporary residence and waiting until they are 18 years old. So the Christian People's Party and the undersigned are not assured by the statement we now received, one is worried because it may not take over the reality that is, and the problems that are sending young people back to Afghanistan. It is visualized in the reports, which are quite unambiguous. Our seconded diplomats in Afghanistan must hide behind fasteners, adapted to the tense security situation. So it looks like it's much more trouble-free to return children to a society that is described as being directly dangerous. How can we, Norway, defend that practice at all? The Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not advise anyone to travel. It was said that there was a difference here between traveling and the fact that citizens travel domestically. But we know what they return to: settlement with the Taliban, settlement because of faith, settlement because they traveled. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ website says that the security situation is very challenging. There are frequent attacks. Sharp security operations are in progress in most of Afghanistan and the risk of being affected by terrorist attacks is significant. The same applies to killing, kidnapping and attempted kidnapping. I would not have sent my kids back there – I would not. But these kids have to travel, and it's completely incomprehensible to me that they have to. So I want to encourage the parties in this room to settle this practice with regard to lone minors, because that's what we're talking about initially. I want to specifically challenge the Workers' Party and the Center Party at their point of view. It is those who have the key in this case. It's not just a concern that we send young people back to Afghanistan, it's a practice we can't be familiar with. So the urgent decision to stop temporarily pending further investigation supports the Christian People's Party wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1120	This case is about international law, but above all it is about human rights, about children's rights. Last night I received a letter from Farida, the 11-year-old from Dokka, who has been waiting in Kabul since February 2015 after she and the family were expelled from Norway. The state has anchored twice. The family has received legal support, and they have received legal support. Now the matter is appealed again, and she is waiting for clarification, for now the Supreme Court has also brought the matter up. I'll read up for this hall a little bit of what Farida writes: ‘In this letter I write what happens in my everyday life here in Kabul to what happened today. After I got lessons from Kari my teacher, with whom she still has contact, “there was a bombing here in a TV channel station. Boming happens often here, I'm very afraid. Last Thursday a thief stole a water pipe outside the house in which we live, and a window was broken. After that I am very afraid at night to sleep not well. The security is very dangerous here. ... Here I have no friends, don't go out, don't go to school I'm just in." She goes on to write: «I get hurt in my heart when I think that the state of Norway is playing with my life and it's very hard to understand. I am a child, this is not my right." There is no doubt that the security situation in Afghanistan has deteriorated. The UN High Commissioner has warned against a comprehensive return to Afghanistan due to the security situation. We cannot have one refugee policy at international meetings and another for the refugees coming here. We need to focus on what the UN High Commissioner for Refugees thinks. And right now, it's right to have an immediate and temporary stop in the airships to Afghanistan. The question is not whether it is unsafe. The question is, although there are degrees of fear, how do we relate to how unsafe it is? It is a political priority where the list should be located. Then I also remember that the UDI Director said the same clearly in an interview to VG on 6 November. He says, ‘The thresholds for what is needed for us not to return are a political question. Today there is a high threshold for asylum, refugee status or humanitarian stay.» In the first place, it says: ‘Norwegian practices have gradually progressed over several years towards the minimum level of opposition to the international conventions. We're on the right side, but with less margins than before." The Ministry of Justice decides how they relate to UDI practice. I would therefore like to know from the Minister for Immigration and Integration now whether the Ministry of Justice has rejected some of the UDI's practical presentations on Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1152	In the report «Forced back to danger. Asylum-seekers returned from Europe to Afghanistan’, Amnesty International showed that Norway is the country in Europe that returns most asylum seekers to Afghanistan. Norway has sent back people who have been killed, injured or lived in fear because of their faith. When Amnesty’s employees were in Afghanistan from May to August 2017, they were able to track down several of those who had been returned from Europe to Afghanistan and document what has happened to them, including more from Norway. One example is a woman who moved with her family from Afghanistan in 2015, when the husband had been kidnapped and brutally tortured and then released from ransom. They ended up in Norway after several months on the run. The Norwegian authorities rejected their asylum application, they were returned in 2016, and a few months later the man disappeared. Finally it came for a day that he had been killed. According to the annual report of the UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan, more civilians were killed in 2016 than in any of the previous years they have documented. The same report shows for the first six months of 2017 — and that most of the civilians killed are killed in the capital, Kabul, due to suicide attacks. Senior researcher Arne Strand states the following: ‘Kabul is now the most dangerous province in Afghanistan. According to the UN, Kabul has the highest number of civilian casualties and injuries. It is therefore difficult to see that Kabul can be defined as safe.’ UDI has stated that the authorities in Kabul are in control, that there are no acts of war there, that there are some acts of terrorism in which civil life is lost. Researcher Strand points out that there is no distinction between warfare and terror in this case. The UDI has previously concluded that Helmand and Nangarhar provinces are generally unsafe because IS and the Taliban carry out war operations there, but IS and the Taliban take more civilian lives through the acts of terror in Kabul than in those unsafe provinces. The number of civilians killed and injured is one of the criteria UDI uses when assessing whether an area is too dangerous for return to be advisable. Now Kabul is the area of most killed and wounded civilians. To put it nicely, it is highly unclear whether Norwegian return practices are in line with international law in respect of returns to Afghanistan. That is why we need an immediate stop in all returns to Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1170	With regard to the details of the assessments made by Sweden, versus Norway: we need to investigate and come back to this, but there is no doubt that our assessments are largely in line with the other country around us. There may be some differences between countries in which provinces are considered unsafe or not. Last week, the UDI made assessments of these questions, and I will assume that the UDI has also had the big debate that has taken place. They have then gone through it and found that it is still safe to return people from Afghanistan who are being refused to Afghanistan. These are difficult balances. There are many dilemmas in these matters. There are many people around Norway who have become acquainted with individuals, who have become friends with them, who have met them on the football field, who have had them on the asylum desk, who see that there are amazing people behind these figures. I have a lot of understanding that it's hard. At the same time, it is important that those who are refused in Norway should be sent out, and it is not a criterion for staying in Norway that they are kind and straightforward. It's whether you need protection, which determines it. In Afghanistan, there are 34 million inhabitants, and of these, approximately. Fifteen million under 18 years of age. In other words, the potential is very large. Nor can we forget all of these when we discuss how we should spend our money in the best and most efficient way possible to help as much as possible. Norway has received a lot of criticism for returns to Afghanistan. We already had a tripartite return agreement in 2005 between the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, Norway and Afghanistan, and were renegotiated in 2011. This has meant that Norway in the rest of Europe has been seen as very advanced in the way we manage to implement these returns, because it is a matter of not being able to undermine the asylum system. That's why other countries are coming after us, and then we shouldn't turn around and go the other way. There will be a discussion next week where we can go even more thoroughly into these questions. Lone minors and the assessments there are a matter in themselves. There has been a proposal from the Labour Party on changes to the legislation they themselves introduced in 2009, because there were very many lonely minors, and it was seen that Norway had to be made less attractive. We're going to have a lot of good discussions on that. So we're going to get back to this. Now is the time, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1185	I would also like to thank you for questions and comments. It is, as far as I was able to capture, really one of the main issues that concerns what is my responsibility here, and it is related to the U.D. Travel Council and the difference between the U.D. Travel Council and what perhaps Landinfo or others consider. It is important to stress, as I also explained in quite detail, that the travel councils and travel information provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have a completely different purpose and target group than, among other things. refugees and asylum seekers returned. It is to Norwegian citizens who are to stay abroad, and which I was also in, that they often have a different threat picture to themselves than the locals and those who return to their own country. Therefore, assessments may also be different. The security measures we need to implement for our staff in the embassies can therefore also be something very different from that of the local population, precisely for the reasons I also mentioned. The threat picture looks different, there are often many attacks, as we have seen in Kabul, aimed at targets related to international efforts, among others. And it's not unique to Norway, it's also true to other countries that have embassies in Kabul or in other risky countries. So it's a demanding and complex security situation, but it also has significant variations. I must say that with regard to the description given by the representative Aasrud, that I had said that the security situation was satisfactory, I did not say that in my statement, but I tried to describe a situation that is demanding, challenging and has considerable variations. I would also like to stress that the U.D. through the travel councils or otherwise does not take a position on the security situation of the returnees. It is not under our mandate, and the information on the government's website is therefore strictly linked to the travel of Norwegian citizens to different countries. Let me end by stressing that, as I said in my presentation, we have now issued travel councils to 49 countries on the three different levels that I presented earlier. Today, 23 countries have the same level or more stringent levels of travel councils compared to Afghanistan, and it is – once again – intended for Norwegian citizens to travel to and stay in the countries concerned, not how to return or the local population or their security situation in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1198	The debate on the distribution has ended, and the President will propose that the distribution of relations relating to the security policy situation in Afghanistan and the practice of returning former asylum seekers there be included in the minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1214	There will be some changes in the set question list, and the President will show you in the context of the electronic question list. The president proposed that the changes in today's Question Time should be approved. - It's a note. The changes were as follows: Questions 11 and 12 from the representative Karin Andersen and Kari Henriksen of the Minister of Health and Health have been withdrawn. Questions 20 and 21, from the respective representatives of Liv Signe Navarsete and Carl-Erik Grimstad to the Minister for Defence, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has departed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1232	‘Statistical Central Bureau has a very important role in Norwegian society, including: as a pre-dispenser for policy and management decisions. For the SSB as an institution, it would be unfortunate if the trust crisis that the Agency is now experiencing does not get clarification as soon as possible, so that the Agency is given the best possible prerequisites for resolving its societal task in the future. What will the Council of State do to the SSB, and does the Council of State trust that today's SSB management is the most suitable to lead the SSB out of the current crisis?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1239	The tasks and societal tasks of the Statistical Centre are governed by the Statistics Act. It shows that the SSB will produce statistics and analyses of the importance of the Norwegian society, with the highest quality and the most effective possible. The management of the SSB itself has set in motion efforts to streamline and modernise its operations. The reorganisation has created unrest, both inside and outside the SSB. Several have expressed concerns as to whether the SSB will be able to provide good models and analyses to the departments, to the Stortinget, to the social partners and to the media and the general public to an adequate extent. Assuring me that the SSB is able to carry out its social mission is very important to me. That's why I invited the Executive Director of the SSB to a meeting last Monday, where I asked for a briefing. In a new meeting today early we have discussed the situation again. In today's meeting, the Executive Director has submitted proposals that I am now going to take some time to get into. We have therefore agreed on a third meeting on Friday this week. As a statistical producer and supplier of analysis and decision support to the administration, the SSB is dependent on general trust – among the contracting entities, in the Stortinget and among the social partners and others using the figures and analyses provided by the SSB. I agree with the representative, Gielsvik, that the SSB must get the best possible conditions to solve its societal mission. I'm assuming that the process we're in now will clarify significant issues that have been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1248	I thank you for the answer, but I must nevertheless be allowed to follow up: How long will this last? Is Stortinget to be notified of ever-new tea companies between the State Council and the SSB Head of Mission, or will there be a clarification? As the Council of State itself is involved, there is a situation that is unsustainable but also escalating. It's the social partners that ask powerful questions, it's scientists, it's economists, and it's also politicians, even representatives of the Council's own party. When will one clarify the situation in which the SSB is now standing?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1255	Let me first say that I think it is somewhat disrespectful to call the process that is now going on for ‘tea company’. I would like to stress to the representative Gülsvik that I am taking this situation very seriously, and I believe that it is up to me to go thoroughly into this process, in order to be able to give good answers through it. Yeah, there's a lot of debate going on. Yes, there are many participants in that debate. But I have a responsibility just in such a situation to evaluate this thoroughly, and this is about ensuring the independence and the trust that we all agree that the Central Statistical Office has had and will have for the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1262	I thank you again for the answer. This is not a situation that has arisen today or during the past few weeks. This debate has been going on since the SSB sample presented its report in January. In parallel with this, a process is underway: the government has set up a statistical law committee, and at the same time it is proposing to the SSB, by presenting a proposal, a rather comprehensive reorganization of its activities. Does the government council think it was wise of the SSB to get that work going? And, to get back to the main question, does the Council of State have confidence that today's management is able to bring the SSB back to the situation you're going to be in?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1267	I think the questions that the representative Gülsvik is now raising, through his three questions, underline the complexity of this matter. I agree that it is complex, I agree that there are many debates, and I agree that it has been going on for a long time. I also agree that it must be brought to an end as soon as possible. That's what I'm doing. I do it with the utmost seriousness and go into it as thoroughly as I can, precisely because I can try to contribute to this matter being settled, and that at a later stage I can provide the Storting with more detailed answers to an ongoing process.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1275	‘Norwegian legislation has taken over more than 100 years on the serious social contract that host municipalities for power plants with associated natural resources should have a legitimate return on the natural capital contributed by the community. The Government proposes to remove the local government's right to print property taxes on production equipment and installations as well as to change the local authorities' access to print property taxes on power plants. The interest rate on capitalisation is proposed unchanged. Is this under that social contract?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1282	The government is committed to improving the framework conditions for business. Many manufacturing companies have made large investments in expensive equipment. When a specific property tax is payable on this equipment of production, it imposes an additional burden. The property tax may lead to an unprofitable operation. The tax may therefore lead to non-fulfilment of profitable investments. In addition, today’s rules are complicated and have contributed to a wide range of legal proceedings. Therefore, next year’s government proposes to remove the property tax on production equipment and installations. This will in the long term contribute to simpler and more predictable rules, while providing lower property taxes for small and large individual enterprises across the country. Thus, the government’s proposals will support existing businesses and jobs locally and provide predictability for all those considering the establishment of new activities. For example, the data centre industry has brought forward the current property tax rules as an obstacle to the establishment of new activities. In order to mitigate the immediate negative impact on municipalities, the government has proposed that wind turbines, hydropower plants and special-purpose petroleum installations continue to pay property taxes on production equipment and installations. In addition, the government has proposed that the new property tax rules be phased in over five years. This means that the municipalities first have full effect on the rules of 2023. In other words, it gives the municipalities concerned good time to adapt to reduced property tax revenues. At the same time, I remind you that the government has significantly increased the income of the local government sector in the period from 2013 to 2017. Measured per capita, the average annual growth of the free revenues can be estimated at 0,9 pst. in this four-year period, against 0,6 pst. in the eight-year period from 2005 to 2013. The government is adding up to a growth in the free income of the municipal sector of about 3.8 billion. kr in 2018. It increases the capacity of the local government to provide better services to its citizens. Municipalities with power plants receive additional income from, inter alia: taxes on property, concession power, concession fee and natural resource tax. The government is not proposing to remove the local government's right to charge property taxes on power plants. Nor have any changes been proposed in either concession fees, concession powers or natural resource taxes. However, as a result of our proposal to remove property taxes on production equipment and installations, it should no longer be possible to charge property taxes on the transmission system. A purely professional assessment of the capitalisation rate for the valuation of the property tax value of power plants suggests that it should be increased rather than reduced. It would give lower property tax access to municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1303	Thank you for that. The capitalisation rate contributes to setting the property tax base for power plants. This is a value question – how to distribute the value creation between host municipalities and the state/owner. Both the Minister of Finance and this representative know that this is a political issue. For example, the unadjusted capitalisation rate decreases. the value of the power plants taxed by the municipality of Nore and Uvdal, by 53 pst. in two years. The reduction is equal to 20 million. kr, or 6,3 pst., of the municipality’s total revenue. For the Home Municipality of the Minister of Finance, Oslo, such a reduction in municipal income would amount to 2.2 billion. kr. The proposal to remove property taxes on production installations and equipment will only deduct Kommune-Norge 1,2 billion. kr. From the government team compensation for loss of income is excluded and the local government sector is to be streamlined corresponding to the loss of income. In the last four-year period, the government has produced more than 4000 red tape positions. What does the Minister of Finance think that municipalities, unlike the state, should be expected to increase the efficiency of such a loss of income in such a short time?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1312	I'm not quite sure how the reasoning on the capitalisation rate suddenly got into bureaucracy, but let me first say that the government has not proposed to change the capitalisation rate now. On the other hand, what we were asked by Stortinget in the autumn of 2016 was to assess the capitalisation rate. The government has. It is true that the capitalisation rate has an impact on property taxes. The Landssaman conclusion of Vasskraftkommunar wants a lower capitalisation rate. It would give higher property taxes. However, there is no doubt that the reason for the decrease in municipal income from property taxes on power plants from 2016 to 2017 is lower electricity prices. Lower electricity prices thus generate less revenue for power companies – and thus less distribution between power owners, municipalities and the state. When companies get less money, it may not be entirely natural to ask them to pay even more to their owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1319	The link is the income of the municipalities, for the government's proposal to change property tax is not a proposal to balance income differences between municipalities. The government takes income from power stations and gives money to those who own power plants and installations — to a large extent the state itself. In order to compensate, municipalities have to increase the property tax on cabins, dwellings and other industries, such as travel, which the government has also proposed to receive a further 2 pst. increase in VAT. The government cuts the country's own expenses by transferring tasks or assigning new tasks to municipalities, without accompanying money. In addition, the state inverts the excesses on the services the municipalities have to buy or have compensated for from the state. Resource-intensive users, where the entry point for state support has been increased by several hundred thousand, proposals for staffing standards in the kindergarten, cut aid and zero until lone dependants become pussy in the municipality: 140 million. kr. In addition, the municipality shall have tasks such as: education and care services. How does the Minister of Finance feel about the government’s approach — referred to here — to help to enable municipalities to provide good services to their citizens?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1326	As I explained in my first answer, this government has strengthened the revenues of the municipalities every year since it joined. I believe that this is a very good starting point because the municipalities are able to finance the tasks they are assigned to manage. Then I think it might be a little special that the only conclusion of the representative in terms of the proposal to remove the property tax on machinery and equipment is that the municipalities affected by it have to respond to it by increasing the type of property tax. The whole point of doing these interventions is to strengthen the nutrient base, to strengthen the local business community and to facilitate the establishment of more local jobs. It is also a strength for the municipalities, and it will provide future revenues to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1338	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘What environmental requirements apply to the Bergen-Kirkenes coastal route today, and what requirements does the Council of State consider it appropriate to take into account in the future in a timely manner so that coastal traffic also contributes to reducing emissions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1345	Very short and straightforward: In today's agreement with Hurtigruten there are no specific requirements for climate and environment. In what the government has now submitted to tender, there is a requirement for maximum CO 2 emissions for the service, one saying that emissions should be reduced by a minimum of 25 pst. from the level of the day. We say that it should be equipped for shore-side electricity, and that one should use shore-side electricity where it is at the disposal of the port. And we say that one should not use heavy oil as fuel. This means that we are tightening up on the environmental side, both in relation to global emissions and in relation to local pollution. Through Enova, we have made a strong contribution to supporting the development of infrastructure for both environmentally friendly vessels and vehicles. Through Enova, as well as other instruments, we are involved in the revolutionization of shipping, aviation and road transport, and we also hope that Norway will be able to contribute to more environmentally friendly railways. It's important. In the offer currently being made on the coastal route, it is important that we impose stricter requirements than we do today to help stimulate the development of technologies for the application of technology. It reduces emissions by 25 pst. When the Hurtigruten one year ago launched the possibility of building two – with an option of two more – hybrid ships, the emission reduction would have been around 25 pst, as we understand it. Then it was cheered over as something very offensive and very forward-looking. In today's debate, which has been in Stortinget before, it suddenly sounds almost like yesterday's technology. There is some evidence of the need for a real-life orientation on the extent to which ships are built and how long-term this investment is. For me, it is important that we reduce emissions, but it is also important that we have a coastal route that is predictable and safe for those travelling. It doesn't help if we get great technology if we end up with a lot of calls at the beginning of the period because the technology didn't turn out to be mature or work well enough. The coastline calls 34 ports from Bergen to Kirkenes. So many of the calls are in arctic strata, in broken strips, and some of the distances are quite long, and that makes demands on the ships. At the same time, the tender shall require an average reduction of 25 pst. during the period. That means that one can go in with today's ship, but that means that one has to have even bigger cuts at the end of the period to cancel out, so that one on average gets 25 pst. Cut, cut, This means that there are great opportunities to develop technologies from the Norwegian shipbuilding industry, or from the shipping industry in general, and to apply them gradually as the tendering period runs. But the important thing is that you have to meet the total goal, which is 25 pst. emission cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1359	The Kystruta, or the fast route, as we call it, is a unique concept with a charming combination of local traffic, tourists and freight transport. It's this thing that's been the fast way, and it's been since 1898. The first companies had the name “vapour ship company”, and that term says something about how they got there. The most important thing then was to bind the coast together, but now it is about contributing to technological development in terms of fuel. Here it's important that we can help develop the fast way. Where we used to need the transport of goods and people, we now have to address the environmental challenges. I would like to ask the Council of State: is it possible for the authorities to impose additional environmental requirements during the tendering period – i.e. before 2029?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1368	I believe that the law on public acquisitions places considerable restrictions on submitting a tender after the agreement has been concluded. The progress I have been thinking about is that one should conclude this agreement during the summer of 2018, because it will enter into force from 1 January 2021, and then it is important that one has time to design, build or adapt ships just to deliver this. If the period from the conclusion of the contract to the start of the service supply is too short, we fear that many operators will not be involved in a tender – simply because there is too much risk in it. The important thing here is that there is a lot of room for action in taking action in the form that it's up to the actors to do the measurements, namely 25 pst. discharge. Should it be, for example, be the Hurtigruten who wins this tender, they may continue with today's ship. This means that significant investments must be made during the period. If we come in with new state demands, I think it will be very difficult to deal with by the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1375	I thank you for your answer. Development and technology are not self-sufficient, either on land or at sea. If the authorities do not set requirements, there is reason to believe that new and cleaner technologies are not being developed. Authority requirements drive and push development in the right direction. Will the Minister of Transport be the driver of the modernisation of the 34 coastal ports, even if they are owned by the municipalities, so that emissions are reduced and thus contribute to a side effect – that other fleets, such as fishing boats or freight boats, can also use more environmentally friendly technology?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1382	I believe that technology development comes for more reasons than just government requirements. One of the main driving forces is enough for shipping or business itself to save costs, reduce risks, etc. Many of the technology developments that have occurred in human history have not happened because it has been sitting in a state and demanding it, but because it strengthens the competitiveness of a market for an actor who makes things more effective than competitors. Energy costs are an essential part of transport costs, and the ability to reduce energy costs or find cheaper fuels is a better way, where one does not necessarily need regulatory requirements, but where there is a self-interest in the companies. Then, of course, government demands could be in many places a driving force for things to happen, or the state, by paying more for a service, reduces the risk of an actor being involved in contributing in this respect. It is important to bear in mind that what we specifically require in a tender will not be eligible for support from a tenderer, for example: from Enova. There are also limitations on what we can claim, because this is a service where we buy an additional service, which is the coast route. [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1394	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘According to a press release of 25 October this year, the government of ESA requested a postponement of the reasoned opinion on Norwegian taxi regulation for the second time. Could the Council of State give a detailed description of the factors that cause so great a headache in this case that he again requests a postponement, and does the Government have any plan to maintain a safe and operational taxi service throughout the country that is part of a national collective service?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1409	I thank you for the question. I believe that what underpins the way we work is to ensure a good, operationally safe taxi offer throughout the country. It's important to us, and that's what we need to find a solution. The currently under assessment regulation is based on the reasoned opinion of ESA on 22 February 2017. Some of what ESA challenged us on are, among other things, test of the need for taxi licences and central connection obligations, which is contrary to the requirements of EEA law regarding the right to freedom of establishment. We have asked for a postponement simply because we are very concerned about finding a solution that is good and that takes care of the transport function that the taxis have. It is quick to think that in a city like Oslo there are more than enough people or actors who would provide taxi services if it had been a completely free market. It is also the experience of many other countries. We were in San Francisco two years ago. What we were told from a lot of the taxi industry we met there was that it is not a problem to get hold of taxis in the cities. The challenge is that it has become a problem to get access to taxis outside the cities, because there are fewer people who can live by operating passenger services individually, which taxis are, simply because there are too many who are present and running a little now and then – students who spend some time on income, people who have some leisure time, people who are in a transition between different jobs, etc. It makes the economic situation to bear it as its own job and to feed a family, it disappeared. There is usually so much transport in a city that it is not a problem, but in the districts the experience is in many places that you do not get that offer. One of the things we think is important about taxi industry in Norway is that it is part of the public transport – knowing that everything from the elderly to pregnant women to children who need transport is offered, and that it does not depend on whether the student is free from school that day and can drive for Uber. That's the job we need to find solutions to. Some have outlined that it could mean liberalisation in cities, but still a concession system in the districts. There's all the demarcation problems with this. One of the other important things is to take the discussion if you liberalize this, about what requirements you might have to impose on a driver about special skills in transporting people, because you have a special responsibility. What requirements, if any, should be imposed on the vehicle? And how do you ensure transparency in the system? Many people will point out that Uber has just solved it, because it is a significant transparency – as a customer you will see who the driver is, you can see the history of it, all payments are made digitally and will thus be easily traceable. Just because there are both advantages and disadvantages to this – we're going to try to maintain good competition, and we're going to pursue societal goals – it takes some time to pack the cards.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1426	Thank you for a supplementary answer. In the government platform from Sundvolden in 2013, which I expect is still valid, it says: ‘The policy shall be seen as part of the collective policy and the industry shall have an important social role.’. The discussion has gone on about the company Uber as a sharing economy in the form of alleged interconnection. This has been rejected by both police and courts, who have punished drivers and companies for illegal taxiing. In addition, the Government has clarified in legislative proposals that interconnection requires that the driver should be the same as the passenger and that this should not be a commercial activity. Can the Council of State confirm that taxi operations continue to be a profession for which society is required and that it is therefore not appropriate to allow any person with his own private car to operate taxi services from any digital platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1440	It is important that we have clear legislation that requires all those who compete in the same industry to deal with the same legislation. There are many arguments on both sides of this case – from those who support today’s taxi system, to those who are happy in Uber – that I believe are both valid and interesting to take along. I think – as I also noticed – that the representative Marianne Marthinsen said in 2016 when a discussed Uber – that believing that a just can ban things, and then solving a problem, that's not necessarily a good approach. So to figure out how to actually find good solutions that people relate to, that's important. With reference to San Francisco: Some of it a point, was that although there are fewer taxi drivers who can live fully of this, there has also been something about the black pirate market. That's also the advantage. To look at how to regulate this in a way that allows innovation and allows actors – perhaps removing permissions in cities but maintaining some form of commitment in districts – is one of the balance we need to find here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1451	Thanks again for the answer. In the revision of the Professional Transport Act in 2016, the State Secretary Nilsen, after a meeting with the industry, said that the right to drive a taxi in Norway should be required and that it should all be dealt with, according to a press release from the Taxi Association. Can the Council of State in any way guarantee that the government will retain the obligation of permission and the test of need in today's system, and thus retain the obligation to drive, which will continue to be important to provide a daily taxi service throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1458	I'm busy trying to define what's going to be the end result here, and that's ensuring a good taxi offer across the country. One of the options that many promise is the ability to regulate this differently, depending on whether it is a city or a country. I will not now begin to commit myself to what it looks like, but I can only stress that today it is such that everyone who carries out passenger transport for remuneration with a passenger car is subject to the same requirements as the law. That means you have to have a license, and you have to have a driver's license. In the case of needs testing, it is left to the counties. That means you can have different policies in different places. Whether to remove it? I think that's part of the important discussion one should have, simply to make an assessment of the consequences of it. With regard to what the representative raised in the previous question, this with interaction: There is also a grey zone, which we have tried to regulate. To get more people to share a car if they're going the same way is basically positive for environmental and gender considerations, but if a driver's business on it, of course, that's not what was meant. It illustrates some of the grey zone problems that we have to solve together.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1467	We're going to question No. 7, from the representative of Une Bastholm to the Minister for Climate and Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1475	‘In October of this year a study was published showing that the amount of insects in 63 areas has been reduced by 75 pst. since 1990. The insects are naved in the world's ecosystems. A collapse in the population can have dramatic consequences for food supply, animals and birds. The EU Commission estimates that 87.5% of plant species in Europe depend on insect pollination. Do the Council of State agree that the loss of insects is a critical threat to food security and natural diversity in Norway, and that we need to do much more to stop serious developments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1482	I want to thank you for the question, which is important. It may seem a little strange that some of the smallest creatures in the world can have a big impact on some of the biggest questions in the world. These insects are important for achieving many of the UN's sustainability targets. These are fundamental issues of nutrition, economics, and safety. Knowledge of insects and their importance in ecosystems is too poor, both globally and in Norway. The study to which the representative refers has been conducted in Germany and is an important contribution to increasing knowledge. Loss of insects is a challenge that we have to face seriously in Norway as well. Norwegian Red List for Species in 2015 shows that 18 pst. bees and bumble bees in Norway are threatened with extinction. The main threat to insects is interference with, or degradation of, their habitats. There are some areas of life for insects that are particularly important. This applies to the natural habitat types moats, hake marshes, coastal lichens and hollow oaks. There are habitat types that have been provided with additional protection through the natural habitat type scheme. In 2016, about 4000 deacons were sold with money over the budget of the Ministry of Climate and Environment. The number of mowing areas harvested has increased from 469 in 2013 to 607 in 2016. We have recently ensured that even more hollow oaks are part of the scheme selected nature type. These are oaks in the periphery around the productive forest. These are hot spots for species, which can provide habitats for up to 1500 species, of which a large number are insects. In 2016, the agricultural sector has paid measles from its own regional environmental programme to about 2,430 decare moats, 136 decare hake and 174 000 decare lichens. We have also increased the number of areas of the system Selected cultural landscapes in agriculture. In total, the number will be doubled to approx. 44 areas from 2016 to 2020. We have also more than doubled the allocation to forest protection, and we have protected 249 new forest areas. There are 3,000 species of insects in Norway that live in wood. Therefore, the focus on forest protection is an important measure to improve the conditions for insects. We also contribute internationally to the work of the Intergovernmental Panel on Pollination. The Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity adopted a decision encouraging countries to follow up the findings of the Nature Panel report with concrete action. Let's do that, for example. with a strategy for wild bees and other pollinating insects for which the Minister of Agriculture is responsible. That strategy shall establish common objectives and actions across several societal sectors. It will be presented in 2018. I can also inform you that we come up with a separate subsidy scheme for pollinator actions in 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1505	It is very good that the Council of State says that the government sees the seriousness, and also in the utmost consequence, sees this as a safety challenge. But the seriousness is not translated into real priorities, although there has been an increase in some areas, such as hollow oaks and cultural landscapes. As the Council of State mentions, it's just e.g. in selected cultural landscapes it is cut. The subsidies for forest protection, endangered species, ecological base maps and the aquatic environment are cut into government proposals for state budgets. The total cut was between 100 and 200 million. kr for nature diversity and species diversity in Norway. In addition, we know that the government has asked the statesmen to raise minor objections about land-use and land-use issues in the municipalities. We're not near the crisis plan we need for the insects. If the Council of State considers this to be important, and if you consider this to be a matter of food supply and security, why does the government in these other budget headings tick, which is critical to the diversity of nature in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1510	We are, despite adjustments proposed in next year's budget, at a historically high level of forest protection. We took over long cows from forest owners who wanted to protect the forest, but there was not enough funding. Now that queue is about to disappear, and we are betting on ever-new important areas of forest protection. In the summer, I have commissioned the Environment Directorate to present to me a package of measures on endangered nature, which will cover approx. 90 species and 60 habitat types. It will cover a number of important areas of life for insects. That recommendation will be available next year. So there's a lot going on, for example. as a result of a historically high level of funding for nature and forest conservation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1515	We're probably going to continue to disagree on the focus of the state budget. I want to end this debate with a concrete challenge. The Greens believe that the new research on insect death must be the starting point for a system debate on the causes of the disappearance of life on earth. We need more knowledge. But we already know enough to establish that land changes are a major cause. If we are to keep important insects in Norway and the rest of the world, we must last and lastly maintain sufficient numbers and sufficient areas, just as we have done with herring and wild cleaning. So my challenge to the Council of State is: in this strategy that is now under development and, as I understand it, is under the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, how will both objectives and measures that go across sectors be ensured, across the territory of the Minister of the Environment, but also of the Minister of Municipality, which has the areas of land policy, the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Agriculture, because all these sectors are important in order to ensure natural diversity in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1520	As I was concerned, it is precisely some of the purpose of this strategy that it should consider how to interact across sectors to ensure species diversity, in order to ensure that pollinator insects have sufficient habitats. We're working on it, so the representative is waiting for the strategy before we go into it. We do not have enough knowledge in Norway, but we have some knowledge projects that suggest that the situation in Norway is not as dramatic as it is elsewhere. However, it is sufficiently serious to require a strategy and to require action, including: the action we are taking next year on a new support scheme for pollinating insects.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1525	We go back to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1533	We're going to a larger species in nature: ‘Kveite at the Sklinnabanken on Namdalskysten is so full of environmental pollutants that fishing bans have been imposed. The Food Authority doesn't know why. Newsprint from the early 1970s shows that these areas were used as a dumping site for European industry. What will the Council of State do to get an overview of areas along the Norwegian coast that have been used as a waste site in previous times, and what will be done to clean up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1542	Since this is the first time we meet in this room, I must be allowed to congratulate Lars Haltbrecken as a newly elected representative. I look forward to the cooperation, including what I assume will be a lot of questions in this format. The news that the kveita outside the Klinna Bank contains high levels of environmental toxins is serious. Our marine resources are valuable, and it's important in this case that we get clarity in conditions. That is why I have asked the Directorate-General for the Environment to initiate studies to find possible reasons why there are higher concentrations of pollutants in this particular area. In a preliminary statement, the Directorate-General for the Environment states that they have asked the National Institute for Nutrition and Marine Food Research to investigate whether there are differences in the diet of the quinces that may be the reason why the quinces are exposed to different environmental exposure. At the same time, the Environment Directorate has asked the MAREANO project for more knowledge of what has been done about monitoring the seabed in the areas. We hope through this to clarify whether there may be old dumping of pollutants that have caused the high levels of pollutants in the quince, or whether it has other causes. I am now awaiting the final results of the Directorate-General for the Environment's studies and technical advice, before deciding on a further follow-up to the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1551	I thank you for the answer and look forward to the studies to be done. In the 2018 draft state budget, the government halves the appropriations for the clean-up of old environmental sins in Norwegian ports. The large cut is justified by the completion of the work in Bergen and Sandefjord. But there are several ports waiting in line to eliminate old environmental sins. Horten, Hammerfest and Ålesund are now working on plans to clean up, but to get started, there is a need to secure funding over several years. The cut next year creates great uncertainty for the further cleanup work in these ports, and the question is: Can the Minister for Climate and Environment promise that the ports that are working on bombing with planning now will receive insurance for money so that they can plan for the start-up of the clean-up in 2019?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1558	Budgetary processes are progressing and budgetary issues are not resolved and published in the Questionnaire. What we have experience of is that the important clearing job that has been done in many fjords over the last few years has been done with efforts over several years and with allocations over several years. We follow there a priority list based on where the challenges are greatest, and when we start a new fjord, it should be a constructive assumption that work will be able to be completed over the years that are necessary. However, what projects can be launched — and when — in the years to come will follow the annual budgetary processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1563	I thank you again for the answer, although the answer this time didn't reassure me as much as the first answer. I'll go back to the quate. This is also true of the polluted ports, and the question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that those responsible for the dumping of pollutants along the Norwegian coast, and where the companies are still in operation, agree to pay for that clean-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1570	First, we need to identify what is the situation, and whether it is possible to determine what is the cause of these pollutants, and whether it may be due to dumping from enterprises. Then we have to decide what can be done to address the problem. We have experience that it can be difficult to identify individual sources, and it can often be that businesses no longer exist. But where they exist, we have experience that, through an interaction between public and private funds, it has been possible to do a lot. This applies, inter alia, to: in Sandefjord, where Jotun has shot in money for the seabed cleaning. First, however, we need to identify the situation, including whether it is possible to point to specific emission sources and specific actors behind emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1575	The President noted that additional questions should be raised on the main issue. We continue with the Haltbrecken – with a new question to the Minister for Climate and Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1585	All my questions were about environmental toxins and contamination of the fjords, so I think I was within. My second question to the Council of State is: ‘Nærøyfjord and Geirangerfjord areas are considered by UNESCO as the most beautiful fjord landscapes, and they are on the world heritage list. Norway has undertaken to take care of these areas. Despite this, more than half of the cruise ships sailing in these fjords have been built before 2000 and have poor environmental standards. The use of heavy oil occurs. Sewage and grey water discharges are also carried out. Air pollution is hazardous to health. Will the Council consider introducing zero-emission zones into the world heritage fjords?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1596	Developing green shipping is a focus of government climate policy. It is also an area where Norway has great potential for building green competitiveness, and we are working widely both nationally and internationally to convert to greener shipping. Cruise traffic in Norway is increasing — it is already high, and it is increasing strongly. Many of the ships are, as the representative Haltbrecken is inside, large and old and pollutes both sea and air. With regard to the fjords on the UNESCO World Heritage List, which includes Nærøyfjorden and Geirangerfjorden, Norway has taken on a special responsibility to take care of them. In the summer of 2016, I therefore commissioned an investigation into the emissions from ships in the World Heritage fjords, and in June this year the Department received an investigation from the Maritime Directorate with an assessment of the emissions, which is the scope of action in the regulation of ships, and proposals for possible measures. That was the basis for my assignment this summer to the Maritime Directorate to design measures to reduce pollution from shipping in World Heritage fjords with a view to introducing stricter requirements from 1 January 2019. The measures to be assessed by the Maritime Directorate are to reduce the visible smoke from ships, lower NOx emissions to air and lower sulphur content of the fuel, as well as speed limitation in the fjords and a ban on the discharge of sewage. Based on the recommendations of the Directorate for Maritime Affairs, the Ministry will determine the stricter requirements for discharges from ships that will be made in the World Heritage fjords. The establishment of zero-emission zones — if it is understood to prohibit the entry of cruise ships into some fjords or parts of fjords — is not part of the mission now assigned to the Directorate of Maritime Affairs. Such an individual measure would require a significant reversal of current activities and could be done with a long-term perspective. The most important thing now is to put in place measures that can be implemented quickly. It must also be said that reinforced requirements for cruise ships will also mean that the most polluting ships will not be able to enter some fjords, but I hesitate to call it the establishment of zero-emission zones.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1609	I thank you for your answer. The rest of the fjords and coastal areas are as vulnerable to pollution as the World Heritage fjords, so I think it is important that cruise traffic is regulated in all coastal areas. It is permitted to discharge sewage 300 metres from land along the entire Norwegian coast. Such non-regulated emissions may lead to over-fertilisation in exposed areas and may damage bathing water quality and threaten fish health and the quality of fish in farms. In addition, cruise ships cause harmful air pollution. Will the Minister then implement stricter requirements for air and sea emissions for cruise ships along the entire Norwegian coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1616	It is based on an initiative around the world heritage fjords that I have started this work. This is because Norway has a special responsibility for the fjords on the UNESCO World Heritage List, also an international responsibility. But I have also made it clear, including: in discussions with the relevant rapporteurs for municipalities which have ports in these World Heritage fjords and which have asked for this to be done at national level, not only for these fjords, that we should now allow this process to run, but that does not prevent us from assessing whether this should also be done nationally when the report from the Maritime Directorate comes. In addition, I have decided, with regard to the question the representative raised about sewer emissions to water 300 metres from land, to give the Maritime Directorate an additional task to ensure that we tighten up the legislation so that no sewage can be discharged so close to land.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1625	I thank you for the answer, especially the last part of it. A final question — SV launched a proposal for a ban on the use of heavy oil in maritime traffic also north of the 62nd parallel. Today the prohibition applies only to the south of the 62nd parallel. This is a proposal such as: Hurtigruten AS participated in the support. Nevertheless, it was defeated by the government parties in the last period. The question then is: will the government now impose such a ban on heavy oil on shipping also north of the 62nd parallel?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1630	We're working for a heavy oil ban in the Arctic. We're doing it through Arctic advice, and we're doing it through IMO. It is important that this type of legislation is developed internationally. It's hard to get support from some other Arctic nations, but we're working on it. At the same time, we have imposed certain restrictions, not least in and around Svalbard, in the case of heavy oil, but the main track in the future will be to continue to work on international regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1635	Question 7 has already been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1643	I have asked the Minister for Children and Gender Equality the following questions: «Young people today live their lives on social media. Research shows that today’s young people, especially girls, but also more and more boys, experience increased pressure from the ‘perfect’ that is cultivated on social media. This creates a sense of inadequacy and anxiety in many. The use of social media has both positive and negative sides. The negative aspects are burdensome for the mental health of young people. What will the Council of State do for children and young people to have a healthier relationship with their own bodies and with social media?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1652	I would like to thank the representative for the question, and I have also answered the representative in writing on a question on almost the same topic. What I want to stress is that the government has put pressure and mental health among young people on the agenda through more work, such as in the strategy for youth health and the strategy for good mental health. And good research is also very important. Recently, the Knowledge Centre for Education published a report on the causes of stress in school, and research that the Minister of Health and I have ordered from NOVA is important for further work. In January next year, we await the NOVA findings on the relationship between the young people's experience of stress and mental health in the areas of body, appearance and social media. Every year, I meet youth representatives from the County Youth Council. Psychiatric health and pressure remain among the themes they address. It shows that young people themselves put this theme on the agenda and are concerned about it, and they come up with proposals that we politicians are listening to. Lifelong learning in school is such an example that came from the youth councils. To get a healthier relationship with your own body, young people need good, professional answers to their questions. The response service young.no, which is run by the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family, has 200 professionals responding to a total of 80 themes. A total of 886,000 unique users used that service only in October. A safe growth contributes to the creation of robust children. Parent turning day.no is established and it is a website that will create awareness and reflection of parents. Parents have an important role to play as role models and can be a counterweight to experienced school pressure and social media dissemination of body ideals and focus on appearance. Next week I'm organising a big recording meeting with organisations that are concerned about how we can strengthen the parent role. This will also be a strategy theme. Social media are positive and an important part of the everyday lives of children and young people. But we also know that it can lead to bad exposure and negative online experiences. Bullying, harassment and the sharing of nude images has become a burden for many young people. This is something that both authorities, organisations and adults need to take seriously. I will pull out both the Cross on the neck, the Police Online Patrol, the Children's Guard and the Safe Use Center. There are some of the measures that we also support in this work. Children who are bullied get a stronger legal protection, and the school gets increased obligations to follow up on the new bullying law. And young people I meet talk about how important school health services are.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1673	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is very good that there is so much focus on mental health and pressure both from the standpoint of government, from the Storing and from society in general, and a number of measures are being taken in some of those areas. But I'm very concerned about what some professionals think is a very useful bulwark against mental health damage also in the case of social media, and it's building self-esteem and self-esteem for the young, because it's proven that what feels negative for a small group, doesn't do it for a larger group, which is much more robust. As some professionals say, from an early stage you are able to make the young people look good enough from other parameters than, for example, social media, they handle what's negative there, better. Then I wonder, when it comes to some of the things the Council of State has framed, is it supposed that an even greater effort can be made to build self-image for children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1678	The representative is on a very important topic, to be able to build self-confidence among the individual children and young people. But it is also a difficult topic, and it is important that parents are safe to be able to give their children good growth and to be the role models and the parents that are needed to safeguard their children. That is why I am very pleased that we have also strengthened parental support measures in the municipalities, for which the municipalities are also applying for funds. Then it is important that schools themselves put this theme on the agenda, and the strategies put forward by the government should be good tools that municipalities can also use in this work. I would like to stress that the school health service is not enough for us to talk about. The fact that municipalities are committed to school health, employing health sisters and young people to meet, and that this topic is being raised is certainly one of the most important things we can do to prevent and help children and young people to become safe in their own bodies and in their own role.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1685	Thank you again to the Council of State. I am very much in agreement with very much of what she says. But what I'm a little concerned about, is that in the case of e.g. Children's Watch or Parent's Day.no, which is now under way, is very focused on the web and that kind of thing, but the competences of those who do this are not at the mental level, and they may not be very focused on teaching us parents to build their children's self-image to an even greater degree. I as a parent would like to have even more tools in my toolbox, and I think most parents could need to know more about that they might have a big job to do to help their kids get even stronger. I wonder if there's anything the council sees that she can start working even more on, and if there's any concrete things you can start with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1690	In my initial answer, I pointed out what's going on in research, and what the government is doing. But as the representative is also inside, one of the most important things we can do is to secure the parents. In the family message that the government presented in the previous period, we had a separate chapter on what's going on around the problem of large children, because there's a lot of both online and other things that go on having small children, but we know that as parents we're in a slightly different situation when the children get older. At the same time, many parents are not aware of the reality that is out there online, and it is important that parents also have knowledge of this. So I'm glad that we have the Children's Watch, which also has a course for some parents, and we're going to develop parental turnaround day.no, which is a good tool that many parents have called for, which is a place where you can find good knowledge, and which there are professionals who have developed. But this will also be further work in the parental support strategy that this government has now begun to work on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1698	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘1. In January 2017, the government introduced input-driven funding for mental health protection. A clear prerequisite should be that the system should not lead to good professional practice. However, we are already receiving reports that the funding system and the code system in practice place obstacles to good professional judgement. More people who get help say that the system makes the help less helpful. What will the government do to ensure a funding system that supports good professional treatment instead of imposing obstacles?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1707	The activity-based healthcare funding systems are not priority and decision-making systems. The priorities and decisions relating to the offers to be made to patients shall be made on the basis of health professional considerations, as well as the rules and guidelines set out in the laws and regulations. From 2017, outpatient mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised treatment against drug dependence are included in the response-driven funding mechanism. In the conversion, we replaced a tariff system established in the 1980s, which paid more than half of the funds to compensate for the number of hours worked, i.e. not for direct patient-oriented activity or the service content that has been provided, but for the amount of resources – hours worked – used. Such a great conversion could necessarily be experienced as demanding at the beginning. We are now in the first year of operation of the new funding system. The system must not be considered as a fully developed system, rather the opposite. It's going to be constantly evolving in the years to come. There are already so-called structured outpatient day services in place this year. These are complex outpatient services that differ significantly from regular outpatient consultations and group treatments — both in terms of content and resource use. This was introduced in order to meet the need for individual patients to receive multiple treatment services within one day. It was a prerequisite for the conversion to input-driven funding that enlargement should be fiscally neutral, i.e. that the country will pay as much in 2017 as in 2016 when adjustments are made for differences in activity level and the like. The Health Directorate has analysed activity data for the period up to and including September. The conclusion is that the input-driven funding system pays too little in relation to the budgetary neutrality assumption. This is particularly true in the field of mental health protection for children and young people, but also to some extent for the rest of the new system. This will be corrected during 2017. Final settlements will be made in 2018, in line with the established ISF scheme in the somatic health field.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1718	I'm glad the Council of State says the system is not finished. That's what I choose to interpret as the state council must agree that it doesn't work well the way it is now. The Psychological Association believes that mental health protection cannot be part of this kind of funding. The special feature of mental health protection is that diagnostics are not a specific group with quite similar symptoms; they are generic terms for similar symptoms, which may have similar treatment courses. Giving a price tag on a type of treatment within this is very serious. Although the Council of State says that it should not affect priorities and decisions, it is now clearly informed by those who work in the healthcare system that that is exactly what is happening. Hofgaard, president of the Psychologists' Association, says that they are getting more and more reports that the purpose of earning trumps the professional assessments of what is good treatment. The commercial management system of the Right-wing Party Government is undergoing good treatment. Will the Council of State now listen to the Psychological Association and the professionals and support the SV's proposal to stop effort-driven funding for mental health protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1725	We're listening all the way to the feedback coming on this system. This is why changes have already been implemented, precisely to prevent these types of issues, for example: the provision of complex assistance on the same day – that there should be no financial punishment for it. Those changes have already been implemented. Changes in this area will be made continuously. However, if professionals experience that their closest managers are asking them to organise and provide healthcare in a different way from what is professionally appropriate for the purpose of the funding system, it is important that professionals report this to senior management, because it is contrary to the purpose and regulation. If a user of the funding system as a priority tool or professional tool makes an error.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1730	But that's exactly what the professionals report, that's exactly what the professionals say -- they say the system of input-driven funding for mental health protection is not working. And then the Council of State says it shouldn't affect health care decisions and priorities. You might wonder why in the whole world you're doing such a big reform if you don't think there's going to be big changes in how you organize and how you work. I would particularly like to raise some of them concerning this, namely the young. The change factory collects knowledge for children and young people in mental health protection through Psychiatric Health Professionals. They say that the vast majority of children and young people can't even talk about the evil, what makes them difficult. They are often pushed into a diagnosis earlier — instead of treating the symptoms — rather than solving the problems that lie behind them. They report that this system causes symptoms and diagnoses to be pushed on even faster, and that therefore it is also becoming more difficult to get help. What does the Council of State think about not only the professionals, but also the users of the system now warn against effort-driven funding for mental health protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1737	I've had several meetings with the Change Factory on children and young people's experience of meeting with the Child and Youth psychiatry. The type of descriptions that a provider provides is also the type of descriptions that a provider gave when the activity-based funding was linked to the number of hours given – not to the activity. This is not an area where a go from framework funding to activity-based funding, a go from a type of activity-based financing to another type. The experiences you had before, now you have one too. The funding system is not what will solve that problem. There are completely different and fundamental changes in mental health protection that are already underway, including: after recording from the Change Factory. They now play an important role in meeting professionals and working to change the culture and attitudes of the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1746	‘In today’s Medisin on Thursday 26 October this year, we can read that mental health and drug clinics all over the country say they are losing millions after the introduction of input-driven funding. Professionals warn against a practice where you do what pays for the hospital, not for the patient. How does the Council of State think he can provide the patient’s healthcare if hospitals are forced to organise treatment in a way that ensures income, and not in a way that helps patients the Minister of Health has said should be specifically promised?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1753	The activity-based healthcare funding system is not a priority and decision-making system. Priorities and decisions relating to the patient’s offer shall be taken on the basis of health professional considerations and the rules and guidelines contained in laws and regulations. From 2017, outpatient mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug dependence are included in the ISF scheme. This replaces a tariff system established in the 1980s, which paid more than half of the funds to compensate for the number of hours worked, i.e. not for direct patient-oriented activity or the service content provided, but for the amount of resources – hours worked – used. Such a great conversion could necessarily be experienced as demanding at the beginning. We are now in the first year of operation of the new funding system, and this is not a fully developed system. Rather, on the contrary, it is going to be continuously developed in the coming years. Changes have already been made, for example: to facilitate better the provision of complex outpatient services that differ significantly from regular outpatient consultations and group treatments. This was introduced in order to meet the needs of individual patients, for example: in order to receive more than one treatment offer in one day. It was a prerequisite for the conversion that one should be budget neutral, i.e. that the country should pay as much in 2017 as in 2016 when adjustments are made for differences in activity levels, etc. Analyses from the Health Directorate covering the period up to and including September show that one has paid too little in relation to budgetary neutrality assumptions. This applies in particular to mental health protection for children and young people, but also to some extent to the rest of the new system. This will be corrected during 2017. Final settlements are made in 2018, in line with the established ISF scheme applicable to the rest of the healthcare system. I do not overlook the fact that any of the concerns raised in today's Medisin article on October 26, just because the system has paid so far less than provided. This, as I said, will be corrected. I would like to reiterate and stress that the activity-based healthcare funding system is not a prioritisation and decision-making system, that it is important that the service feels secure that this should be a budget-neutral system, and that the errors detected are corrected on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1766	At the Nordlands Hospital, they also find the conversion to ISF very bad, which is the abbreviation. The head of the clinic at the mental health and drug clinic says that in particular child and youth psychiatry is poor because they have more indirect patient contact. They cooperate extensively with other services such as school, child protection and health care, just as politicians want them to work – overall against the child or youth, and who need help. What does the Minister of Health think about him creating systems that prevent this good, holistic way of working – I hear the Council of State says that it should not be a priority system, but what about when it prevents good practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1773	This shall not prevent good practice. Therefore, improvements will also be made continuously. However, it is also important to stress that, just as in the rest of the healthcare system, the funding system should not be what determines the organisation of the offer, that is the patient’s concern and that which is good professionalism. If professionals experience that their closest managers use the funding system as an argument for not organising work in a good professional manner, it is important to inform them, because then the funding system is misused to something other than what it is intended to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1778	Now it is reported from all over the country – in the article in Dagens Medisin, Telemark, Nordlandssykehuset, UNN in Tromsø, Oslo University Hospital and Health Bergen report the same negative effects. Can the Minister of Health now guarantee that he will rectify this, when he says that there should be adjustments along the way and that we should follow developments closely? Wasn't this really an experiment to try to refute what professionals and political opponents have been saying all along, that the golden rule is a bad goal because it doesn't work, because hospitals are funded as they are, with the ISF in the somatic and framework appropriations in the field of drug and mental health?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1783	Yeah, that's exactly what's the point. One of the main reasons for the golden rule is that the somatic part of healthcare has a much stronger growth potential, among other things. because it is covered by input-driven financing. One way to correct this is to introduce drug and mental health input-driven funding, which has been notified over several years, which you have prepared over a long period of time. The current start-up is very limited, with a small proportion in outpatient consultations, just to make the conversion more predictable, and to be able to address challenges along the way. The under-funding that a person experiences because he has not taken into account for fiscal neutrality, I have said will be corrected during 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1798	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1812	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1820	‘Several health businesses are discussing in these days how to distribute cut-offs in patient services for the next year. This also applies to the greatest extent to mental health protection. In Health Bergen, according to the budgetary situation, the company must lay down a department at Sandviken Hospital and lay down Jobfast, Norway’s only health service for alerts. Will the Council of State defend the under pressure of mental health protection, and what will he do to deliver important offers, such as Jobfast, and to prevent the reduction of mental health protection in general?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1827	As I understand it, Health Bergen will adjust the costs by around 150 million in the 2018 budget. kr compared to the 2017 budget. This is an extensive work where it is natural that the health business assesses all aspects of its activities and prioritises the use of resources in the future. The work on the 2018 budget is based on the budgetary assumptions they received from Health West in June 2017 and the adopted long-term budget for the hospital. The hospital has not yet received a final financial envelope for 2018 from Health West based on the State budget for 2018. Part of the hospital budget is based on structural measures and conversion. Several conditions make it necessary to assess structural measures in the hospital. This applies, inter alia, to: the introduction of a new model of reception, the further rotation from 24 hours to day and outpatient treatment, the transition to more day surgery and the focus on lay time in the specialised departments. The need for structural measures will apply to both mental health protection, drug use and somatics. As part of the transition work, there is now a reorganization at Sandviken Hospital with a greater emphasis on outpatient treatment and increased daily provision for patients with the highest needs. Jobfast was established in 2012 as a five-year research project. The project is organised as an outpatient offer to investigate, treat and rehabilitate patients who experience reduced health due to psychosocial conflicts in the workplace, bullying, sexual and other harassment and alerting. A report has been prepared in autumn 2016 on the status and challenges after four years of operation. I assume that Health West takes good care of its responsibilities, and that change processes take place locally in an open and inclusive way, in good dialogue with employees and with professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1840	What the Council of State calls for the adjustment of costs is, in effect, a painful cut in patient treatment in the enterprise. The sum has increased from 150 million. NOK 200 million. kr, which we now have to cut in order to reach next year's budget. Structural measures are put in place, not because of professional desire, but because of the pressures of the economic situation. It is in the hospital in general, but it also applies in the field of mental health protection — with the closure of a department. But to Jobfast, which is a national offer: The population has wanted to strengthen — and decided to strengthen — the alert protection. They get patients from all over the country. Does the Council not see that Jobfast is an offer that must be kept up and that cannot be brought down because of the economic situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1847	I expect the representative Toppe to agree that all health regions and all hospitals have to deal with the budgetary framework adopted by the Stortinget, and that health services are not in a special position and can spend more money than the Stortinget has granted. This concerns Health Bergen and Health West and all other health regions. They have a responsibility to ensure that they have the basis for making the necessary investments for the future, and that one has to stick to the budgets adopted by the Stortinge. This means that if a year spends more money than one has received, a necessary change will have to be made to keep the frameworks that society has put at its disposal for health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1852	Of course, all health regions have to comply with the budget, but all health ministers also have to align themselves with the reality out there when, after all, they have top political responsibility. When there is a massive cut in mental health protection – in all health regions – a government council should also be concerned. And when one in Health Bergen also has to go to the step of putting down provisions that work beyond the care-for-responsibility in their health region, namely that one has a national offer for alerts and others who have been bullied or harassed in the workplace, one as Minister of Health should stand up and say that this offer must be passed on in one form or another – whether it be for Health Bergen or another health care – this offer should ensure that the government continues. Working is a national offer, and it is the only offer that is now at risk of being cut off because of the economic situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1857	Health Bergen has not yet adopted its budget for 2018. The management of Health Bergen is engaged in extensive work with the employees and trustees in looking at what measures, what changes are necessary to deal with the framework adopted by the Stortingen. I have submitted a government budget for 2018 that also facilitates good growth in the hospital economy, which will also demand that the growth of mental health protection and drug use be higher than that of other hospital services. But I think that following the advice of the representative Toppes that I, as Minister of Health, should go into this type of work, while management and employees work together, and wondering what changes I might be opposed to, so to force one to look at other offers, is a way of managing the healthcare that I strongly warn against.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1867	‘More young people than ever have mental problems. School health services are identified as crucial for the prevention of mental health problems among young people. How much of the money that the government allocated to the school health service in 2016 and 2017 was used to hire more health sisters, how many more annual works are similar, and why does the government have allergy to earmarking more money for the school health service?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1874	It is serious that more children and young people face mental health challenges. Therefore, the government has children and young people’s mental health as a very high priority area. An important measure is precisely to strengthen health centre and school health services. In 2017, the service was totally strengthened by over 1 billion. SEK, of which 734.4 million. kr takes place through the municipal framework. The earmarked grants amount to 251.3 million. SEK to school health and health centre, 29,2 million. SEK for the development of school health services in secondary schools and SEK 4.3 million. kr to the area bet in Oslo inner east. That's earmarking $300 million. kr to a service I will not describe as allergy to ear tagging. In that case, there is a very weak allergy. One sees clear results from the government's initiative. The number of annual works has increased by 648 from 2013 to 2016. The entire 418 of these annual works came in 2015–2016. Results for 2017 with a significant continued bet we will see when the figures come in June 2018. The Government also proposes to continue funding for the service in 2018 with 753 million. NOK in the municipal framework and SEK 287.1 million. kr in earmarked grants for this service. The Health Directorate has been given a mandate to identify the personnel situation in the two sub-services. In this way, we will be able to put in place even more targeted measures in terms of both the number of annual work and the composition of occupational groups, in order to meet the needs and challenges of the population. It is important to remember that there is a lot of positive in services that are not as easy to measure, among other things. related to multidisciplinary cooperation and development of competences. In the strategy for good mental health, Masters throughout his life, the government proposes to explore an extension of the purpose of health care and school health services to include follow-up and treatment. We will also explore how different services for children and young people can be better coordinated, including: municipal services for children and young people and coordination of individual plans in different sectoral areas. 0–24 cooperation is cross-sectoral cooperation, leading to a more holistic approach to vulnerable children and young people aged 0–24. We're going to make a stepping-up plan for children's and young people's mental health. The foundation of it is already laid in Mestre all his life. From 2020, it is legal for all municipalities to have psychological competence. There has been a strong increase in the recruitment of psychologists in municipalities from 2013 to 2017. In 2013, 95 municipalities had psychologists. Today the number is over 280. Recruitment has led to more lowthreshold services, better prevention of health work and more cooperation with other municipal services and with specialist health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1893	There are many of them who are struggling with mental problems, who refuse to talk to an adult person. Once they have built up to do just that and visit the school health service, they often meet a closed door. That door has been closed as long as the Council of State Höie has been the Council of State. For too many people, the situation is that you decide to talk to adults, and then you meet the closed door. That it's good somewhere, it's not good enough for everyone who could have needed a health sister to talk to. So the question is, if the government thinks that one billion should be used for the school health service, why don't one more of the funds be earmarked when you know that it will lead to more health sisters being hired?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1900	I fully agree that too many children and young people do not meet an open door when they need help in school health and health care. That's why, as Minister of Health, I have prioritised this area so high. So there are considerably fewer people who face a closed door today than when the Labour Party leader Jonas Gahr Støre was Minister of Health. Only from 2015 to 2016 came 418 more annual works in these services. That, I think, leads to considerably more open doors. In fact, when I took over, the situation was that the offer to children and young people in the area of mental health in the municipalities had been getting worse in recent years, with fewer annual work for children and young people. Not only have we stopped this development, but we have also reversed developments in order to strengthen the supply every year. I fully agree that it is important to give priority to this. That's why the government together with the Left and Christian People's Party has managed to prioritise this when we have the opportunity, and not just talk about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1907	I hope the government chooses to look forward when it will discuss politics and not just hang out in the past. We live in 2017 now. The situation is too serious for too many. Too many meet a closed door, and it's at the Council of State Höie's watch. We in the Labour Party have allocated more money, earmarked more money for the school health service every year in our alternative state budgets and are hopefully going to do so too when we launch our budget next week. We have opted for the introduction of a staffing standard for the school health service, cf. That's what the Health Directorate thinks you should have. Then the question is, how far away is the government from complying with the staffing standard for the school health service proposed by the Health Directorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1916	The recommendations related to standards for school health care and health services were submitted by the Health Directorate yesterday. They do not recommend a legally binding standard for the number of annual jobs in the services, but they recommend that they continue to work on having a professional recommendation for the municipalities. We have to get back to that once we've got the recommendations of the directorate. But there's no doubt that the significant bet of close to 1 billion. kr for this service has produced results in the last four years, and we are closer to the recommendations of the directorate now than when the government assumed responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1926	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘In the government’s proposal for next year’s government budget, a cut in the amount of tooth treatment for weak groups is actually added. The Dental Association considers that ‘it is contrary to the cross-political consensus that there is a need to strengthen the dental reimbursement system for vulnerable patient groups’. Does the Council agree that good dental health is also important for mental health, and why does it choose to cut patients’ social security benefits for the necessary dental treatment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1935	The draft budget to which the representative refers is likely to refer to clarifications in the conditions of dental benefit for persons with a severely impaired capacity for self-care due to a permanent illness or a permanent disability. Helfo has carried out a systematic analysis of the requirements submitted by dental practitioners under this scheme for the years 2012 to 2015. In the period, a total of about 335 million were paid. kr in social benefits. The analysis shows that the practice has gone far beyond the intent and purpose of the scheme of the Storting and beyond the intended conditions of the legislation. In the past, the social security scheme was under the popular support scheme. Examples of conditions that made it possible to contribute to dental treatment were rheumatism, paralysis, brain damage and severe mental disorders. Since 2008, the social welfare system has been streamlined, with the result that applications and prior approval were no longer required. It was up to the dentist to assess the extent to which the patient’s condition fell under the conditions of benefit. A large proportion of the submitted requirements do not contain evidence from a doctor or psychologist, as required by the conditions. Social benefits are also required in the condition that dentists themselves name as dental frights or odontophobia, without any other evidence. It has therefore been necessary to propose clarifications in the conditions so that the social security scheme is practised in accordance with the purpose and intention of the Storting. With financial contributions from Chapter. In the last few years, 770 item 70 has been used for the provision of treatment in the county dental services to persons who have suffered torture and/or abuse and to persons with odontophobia, i.e. strong fear of dental treatment. Psychologists are part of the treatment teams. The government proposes to strengthen this offer by redeploying 10 million. NOK 30 million saved. kr to this scheme. There are also other systems of dental treatment for public health that can be used by people with mental illness. This applies to specific persons with extensive oral dryness, the cause of which is adverse reactions to the use of medicinal products. I cannot see that the clarifications proposed in the social welfare systems of the people, which reduce the pay-outs of the population, involve a cut in the social security contributions to dental care for disadvantaged groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1950	I thank you for the answer, but I wonder if the Council of State got what the poor network of Norway was most concerned about when they met for consultation in the Health and Welfare Committee in connection with the work of the State Budget. They were most concerned with teeth, and as they say, it's very stigmatizing to lack more teeth or have large inflammations. It can also make it harder for people to get a job. The Pensioners' Association was also concerned that many do not receive adequate dental treatment, and that it may result in both poorer physical and mental health and social isolation. When it comes to the point that the Council of State picks up, I would say, first of all, if you take away $30 million. I'll give you $10 million. kr back again, there is a terrible poor deal for the groups it might apply. The Dental Association points out in its opinion that the changes that are now being made to the State budget will involve cutting the benefits of those patients who need it the most. Instead of cutting off the support for dental treatment for people with a severely impaired ability to self-care in case of permanent illness through tightening of the conditions, the Dental Association asks that the necessary documentation be made easier to obtain, for the needs are there, based on the feedback I receive. Does the Council agree with the Dental Association that this is a challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1959	Helpho's thorough analysis of this suggests very clearly that this scheme has been used beyond what has been the intention of the scheme. If one after the new clarifications of the terms will be able to document the need that the patient has in a better way, then one will also receive coverage. But there is reason to believe that the clarification of the terms that we propose in the State budget will lead to reduced expenditure on this item. Some of the reduced costs are used to strengthen the supply of people with dental frights, for example. abuse and torture, where they receive a good offer from a team of psychologists. With the major needs of both the dentist and the other healthcare areas, I think it would be wrong to continue with a practice where these funds were used in addition to what was intended for the scheme. But if you can document the need, you'll also get the coverage of the expenses.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1964	The Council of State says that the scheme has been used in addition to the intention, and then it has been decided to redeploy the funds for other types of action. This means that today's government is comfortable with a situation there, for example. – according to the poor network of Norway – more than 100 000 people do not have the opportunity to go to the necessary dental treatment? From my point of view, it is still a significant challenge that there are some social distinctions between who can afford and who can't afford that kind of treatment, and that in the worst case, there is a challenge when we want to get as much work as possible, precisely because it is socially stigmatizing, and it also causes psychological burdens for those involved. Does this mean that the government budget has put forward an objective of reducing the level of ambition in terms of dental health, and does not, in any way, contribute to the widest possible retention of their teeth, including among those belonging to particularly vulnerable and vulnerable groups, and that the need for any extension is not seen in view of which state schemes should be included in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1973	Over the last four years, we have done a number of reinforcements in the dentistry field that help to provide better coverage for people with, for example: dental diseases and persons with significant dental challenges. It is necessary priorities that have been made. But I also think it is right that the legislation we have, and the intentions contained in it, are followed. If not followed, incisions are necessary. Some of the money saved by a greater relation to the legislation is also used to strengthen the supply of a vulnerable group. There may always be a need to extend protection systems and improve the provision of healthcare, but we may need to return to this in future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1983	‘The main cause of disability is mental problems among young people. The number of disabled persons aged between 20 and 29 has doubled in 10 years. Early efforts, lowthreshold services and well-coordinated high-quality professional services where people live are the right medicine. In recent years, record money has been allocated to several health sisters. But the money won't make it. How is the Council of State to ensure good low-threshold services in the municipalities when transfers are carried out in the ultimate direction to asphalt and not to prevent them?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e1990	It is true that mental distress and suffering are behind a large proportion of sick leave and disability statistics in Norway. It is not right that the money allocated to health and school health services does not reach. Longer sick leave can lead to poorer health for individuals and increase the risk of permanent exclusion from working life. Thus, the link with working life is both an important factor for improving work and a protective factor for disease development itself. Because in many cases work should be part of the treatment, many will need assistance from both the hub and health care to cope with or return to work. Therefore, the government is committed to continuing to develop good interaction models between health care and Nav and to continuing the action in the follow-up plan for work and mental health that expired in 2016. Thirty-eight million. kr has been proposed for action in the field of work and mental health in 2018. Measures such as jobmasters' follow-up, individual job support, rapid mental health care and the Faster Back Scheme have produced very good results. Among other things, people with moderate to severe mental health disorders have good opportunities to get into and stay in work when providing follow-up with simultaneous health and work-related rehabilitation — in close cooperation with health and labour services. In several places, the age limit for rapid mental health care is now 16 years. It is serious that more children and young people face mental health challenges. Therefore, the government has mental health and children and young people as a priority area. One of the many interventions has just been to strengthen health centre and school health services. In 2017, the service has been strengthened by a total of about 1 billion. SEK, of which 734 million. kr is in the municipal framework, and 251 and 29 million respectively. kr is earmarked for the service and for the development of the school health service in secondary schools. Another important measure contributing to better low-threshold services in municipalities is the requirement for all municipalities to have psychological competence in 2020. We now see clear results from the government's commitment to this service. The number of annual works has increased by 648 from 2013 to 2016. The entire 418 of these annual works came in 2015–2016. The results for 2017 will only be published in 2018. At the same time, we have also had a significant increase in the number of municipalities with psychological competence, from 95 municipalities in 2013 to 280 municipalities in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2005	I'm recording that it's been granted 1 billion. kr, and it's nice and nice. But when we were able to read this summer on the NRK's website that there was zero growth in new annual work for health nurses in four out of ten municipalities in the school health service and in health centres, I think this is a cause for concern, and you can therefore ask yourself the question about the money going to where they are going. My question is: has the Council assessed the effective instrument of ringing? Then you can also ask yourself, "When the smallest municipalities don't get enough money to travel with by the state, how can you sort buttons and glossy images when they aren't even earmarked?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2012	Earmarking is used. As I said, it's almost 300 million. kr of the one billion that has been earmarked. But we've seen that it's been very effective to combine free resources with a proportion of earmarked funds. One of the reasons is that there are actually municipalities that have done their job, that have invested in this service. Had one done as the Workers' Party suggests, and earmarked all the means, one had actually punished the municipalities that have done the job. We know from experience that often leads to poorer services. At the same time, it is also true that ringing means that a very often person in the municipalities experiences it as a temporary offer, and when the designation is phased out, the offers are also phased out. Therefore, the combination of ringing and free means is a system that appears to provide better and durable offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2019	You can question how durable and effective it is when four out of ten municipalities report something else. But I want to follow up with a binding minimum standard. The Storting has previously asked the government to issue a mandatory minimum standard in the school health service, and it has been announced that it will receive feedback from the government on just this during 2017. So my question is, when can we expect feedback from that investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2026	The mission was given to the Health Directorate, and the Health Directorate handed over its report to the Ministry of Health yesterday. They do not recommend a legally binding standard for school health and health care. They continue to recommend that an investigator further examine a professionally recommended standard, precisely because a legally binding standard will be able to lock services firmly to solutions that are not necessarily the best, and in addition, a legally binding standard will also be too intrusive to the municipality. So the technical recommendation of the Health Directorate is not a legally binding standard. The ministry will now review the report and provide our feedback to Stortinget on the basis of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2034	‘8000 children and adults in mental health protection are currently experiencing delays in the course and a waiting time of 50 days before health care can start. Approximately 30 percent of the referrals to adult mental health protection are rejected without the patient being examined. There is twice as much risk of rejection of mental health protection as of orthopaedic examination. When the Council of State now plans to introduce a package process in mental health protection, how should it ensure that the package process benefits all those who need it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2041	I share the concern of the representative Myrseth for both children and adults who have to wait a long time for treatment. That is why I have given a clear mission to the health regions to work for shorter waiting times and zero deadline breaks. The objective of avoiding time-limits is almost met for both children and adults in this field. I find that there are alarmingly large geographical variations in service provision. The variation in the proportion of rejected patients is an example of this. In the mental health strategy presented in August, Mestre throughout her life, the government describes a number of areas where there is a need for change and development — including: competence, the development of knowledge, the implementation of new working methods, interaction and professional management. These are areas of importance in relation to the questions raised by the representative. I'll come back to Stortinget about how we're going to follow this up further. The development and implementation of package trajectories for mental health and drug use is one key measure. The aim is to improve interaction between service levels and sectors, more standardised investigation procedures, more predictability and better user involvement. The first package runs have been out for consultation and will be implemented in 2018. It is a goal that all patients who need it should enter a package. An exact target has not yet been defined for the proportion of patients involved, but this is part of the work – which is now under way – to prepare the implementation of the package processes and the further development of several quality indicators in this area. It is precisely the challenges that the representative addresses, that the package process can be involved in solving – ensuring that patients receive help, that when the decision-makers feel that they are short on referencing the patient, they are actually seen and heard. We also have examples from healthcare where everyone who is referred to gets a meeting and is assessed by the specialist health service. So this isn't impossible, but it requires changes in the service. I am absolutely convinced that the introduction of the package sequence will be an important tool to bring about the necessary changes in this service, for the benefit of patients, especially children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2054	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am quite sure that the Council of State also reads the Medisin of the Day, where professionals all over the country despair and now report lost income at their clinics as a result of the conversion to an effort-driven funding in outpatient clinics for mental health protection and drug abuse. Børge Mathiassen, who is the clinic manager at the BUP University Hospital North Norway, says to Dagens Medisin on 5 November that he “must cancel 10 percent of the patients if the loss is not covered”. In particular, paediatric and juvenile psychiatric clinics are affected. How does the Council of State view this with regard to his allegations of good hospital economy and mental health for children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2063	The review of the activity figures by the Directorate of Health up to and including September of this year confirms the impression expressed in the Medisin of the Day. That means that the conversion that was made from 1 January is not budget neutral, as the intention was. Therefore, this will be corrected during the year. Health regions will be compensated, as they will otherwise in terms of effort-driven funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2068	The government now presented a weak hospital budget for 2018. The medical association also pointed out in its consultation input to the budget that the year’s operational allocation is not good for the full financing of an activity growth of 2 pst. In addition, all hospitals are required to improve their effectiveness. Can the Council of State guarantee that hospitals in the north will not be cut in their appropriations and that the budgetary agreement will not lead to further savings measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2073	The 2018 government budget proposal, submitted to the Stortinget, implies that one has proposed an activity increase of 2 pst. in hospitals. It is an activity growth at the level of what has been in recent years, and at the best that the Stoltenberg II government has ever adopted. What is important is, of course, that hospitals and health regions relate to the budgets adopted by the Stortinget. This is a budget that facilitates growth beyond demographic trends in the population. Sometimes hospitals or departments are unable to keep budgets and spend more money than they have been allocated. They will then have to implement measures to bring them back into line with the budgets. I expect the representative to agree that neither departments, hospitals nor health regions have the right to spend more money than the Stortinget has granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2083	‘In Rogaland, a good experience has been gained that the fire service, together with other etatars, is helping people who are heavily in need of help but who, for various reasons, are not being helped. In a series in Stavanger Aftenblad, there is a great lack of help for people with severe mental illness and major drug problems. How does the Council of State think that the various forms of assistance can cooperate better on a daily basis to help this group?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2090	I've read the series in Stavanger Aftenblad with great interest. It's my own locality, so I read it well! I think it's very exciting what comes out there about the significance and effort of the fire service, and the meeting with the individual. We also see in that series, unfortunately, that the overall service has been cut short for some users. Once a long time ago when I became a health politician in a municipality, I often heard from the administration of the municipality that we had some people who were hopeless and unable to help. My experience now suggests that it is not the individual human being who is hopeless, but sometimes our services are hopeless, organized in such a way that we are unable to help those who have the greatest needs. We see that one, among other things. have been provided by so-called FACT teams and ACT teams, where specialist health services and the municipality work in teams around the individual – and this is precisely in the user group that often has complex and major mental health problems and drug problems – providing very good results. A man able to live, a man able to get an activity, and a man able to be a part of education and work. It just tells me that many of these have experienced meeting hopeless services, which have been changed, and have again been given hope. So on Tuesday next week, I'm going to visit Stavanger and be with the Fire Service and look at their work, but also at the other work done by Stavanger Municipality with Health Stavanger in this area, to see if there are new things that we can learn from it and contribute to the further development of services for those of us who have the greatest needs, and who represent the greatest social inequality in Norwegian society. These are people with an expected life expectancy that is 20 years shorter than the population otherwise. Unfortunately, a significant explanation is that they do not receive basic assistance for their health challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2099	I share the sense of reality with the Council of State, and that's precisely why I'm asking questions about what one wants to do with it. For I have also read in Stavanger Aftenblad that the Council of State says that the critics are right that this group is being offered too badly today – as the Council of State also replied. After four years as the responsible state council for these highly helpful issues, the Council of State is somewhat opposed to taking responsibility, I feel. None of the regional health care providers has managed to achieve the government’s objective of prioritising mental health protection to the right of hospital treatment. In August, the Health Directorate concluded that there is no basis for concluding that mental health protection is a right priority than somatic activity in the healthcare system. Who is responsible for ensuring that the government achieves its own objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2106	I am responsible for achieving the objectives, but I am also of the clear opinion that the challenges in this area are so great that it is also not possible to correct them in four years. That is why I am happy to have the opportunity to continue working with this area. The priority of the area is very clear in the missions. I am also not satisfied with the follow-up of health regions. I don't think anyone in the management of any of the health regions in Norway is aware of that and is working to correct it. There have been improvements. I mentioned the opportunities offered by ACT and FACT team organisation, such as: Gives a 70 pst. reduction in the use of coercion. In 2016, 75 such actions received support for their work and in 2017 18 new teams have been established and are now participating in the training for new team staff. So here there's a need to continue and strengthen this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2113	The government presented a very low hospital budget for 2018. The Medical Association then said that hospitals have been underfunded for a number of years, and that today's budget is not correcting this. Can the Council of State guarantee that Health West and Health Leaders, to which I belong, will have a real increase in the framework in 2018, and that health professionals actually prioritise mental health protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2118	The state budget for 2018 provides for an activity growth beyond demographic developments, which means an increase in frameworks. So it is in the proposal that the government has promoted for Stortinget. Historically, it is a good hospital budget, in fact at the level of the very best government in which the Senterpartie Party was established. This means that strengthening hospitals’ economies has been a priority task for this government, and it also shows the budget for 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2126	It's a big thing for Norway that we've got a female foreign minister, so it's a pleasure to congratulate on it and ask the following questions: ‘Norway has a long tradition of going ahead internationally in the fight for women’s rights and against coercion. While Saudi Arabia has been given the seat of the United Nations Commission on Gender Equality, we experience that women in the country who oppose forced marriage are being imprisoned, abducted and disappeared, as we have seen earlier this year in the Dina Ali case and now last with Amna Al-Juaid. What measures will Norway take to put concrete pressure on Saudi Arabia to release these and other women affected by gender equality?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2135	Thank you very much for the congratulations, I appreciate that very much. I would like to stress that I share the concern of the representative, Mr Bøhler, about the situation of women in Saudi Arabia. In contact with and over time with Saudi Arabia, we have always actively promoted women’s rights. It is quite obvious that the inequalities in the position of men and women, and not least the position and position of women, in Saudi Arabia, are unacceptable. Saudi women have limited self-determination. It is still the case that religion, family and family are crucial for both choice of life, armstroke and opportunity, and there is a long way to go until universal standards and norms are met. My predecessor Burnde took up women's rights during his visit to the country and explained this in the Great Britain Question Time on April 26th this year. This is what Norway will continue to do: promote universal human rights in political talks with Saudi Arabia. In addition to contacts at political level, Norway also addresses human rights issues with Saudi Arabia in multilateral contexts, such as: by the UN Human Rights Council. Norway is among the countries that have made the most recommendations to Saudi Arabia in the context of the permanent reviews. Our Embassy in Riyadh follows the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia closely, reports home to the Department and also addresses individual cases with local authorities. We are in regular contact with Saudi civil society and human rights actors. The embassy participates in the hearings of human rights activists where possible. Our ambassador met the Saudi Minister of Justice by 22 October and communicated the Norwegian position on the use of the death penalty. In addition to public opinions and direct dialogue with authorities, it is important to achieve long-term results. Civil society actors stress that Norway and others should maintain dialogue with Saudi authorities in this area. With regard to the women Dina Ali and Amna Al-Juaid, these are the things that our embassy follows, and addresses with the relevant authorities. At home, we have just had a meeting in the U.D. with the Saudi ambassador in Oslo to ask for more information about the women involved and to express our concern about women's rights in general in the country. In the meeting, the U.D. stressed the need for greater transparency about the conditions of those institutions in which women, for example: are in conflict with their families, are in conflict. One conclusion is that a visit by the Saudi National Commission on Human Rights to Norway is scheduled for the spring of 2018 for a broad discussion on human rights, including the rights of Saudi women. It is proposed that the Commission should meet relevant Norwegian actors. I believe that the international attention on the situation of women in Saudi Arabia may have contributed to the careful decoration we see in some areas. Let me nevertheless stress that these positive, cautious signs of relief on some of the restrictions for women in Saudi Arabia are welcome, but they are far from sufficient. It's a long way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2150	I thank the Council of State for an informative response, a response that also mentioned many important initiatives taken by Norway. I am very happy that you say specifically that there are not only more general things you talk about, but that you have also taken up the situation of these women and asked for more information. It's going to be very important what answers that information gives. I myself tried to write an article with questions to the Saudi ambassador when he was out and spoke positively in the evening post, but got no answer then. That dialogue meeting in 2018 also seems to be a good procedure, so I think there were absolutely good things in the Council's response. It is very good that there are women activists who are now in Saudi Arabia itself, it is something new that they are initiating actions etc., so I want to ask: Does it mean that Saudi Arabia is now in the Equality Commission, has entered there, a platform for special initiatives that are stronger than before?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2159	This is a good opportunity for Norway and other countries to use the multilateral platforms we have. We see that, in my opinion, together with other international actors, we have used the UN Human Rights Council in a good way as an arena to promote recommendations in the periodic reviews. In 2016, our embassy in Riyadh organized a seminar with gender equality representative Hanne Bjurstrøm. It was probably some new crime work, too. But meeting with resource people in Saudi Arabia for conversations, for information and exchange of experience, is actually a very important part of the work we are doing on human rights. Clearly, the careful decoration we see is also from our point of view to be very positive, but at the same time we must not stare blindly at it and believe that it now represents a total change in Saudi society. It is therefore important to continue our dialogue and not least to continue both bilaterally and multilaterally.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2168	I thank you for the additional response with new information about the things that have been done. What I think it is important to be aware of is that, according to those who are active in the country and work for women's rights and human rights there, Saudi Arabia can also become more restrictive when active work is started in the country both by women activists there and internationally. They experience narrowing and that the signals given about driving and such things are more decorative, cocky-painful, and that what are the real intrusions are prisons of women who are active and who oppose this in a more transparent way than before, and criminal reactions that take place, among other things. to those active in social media. So it's important – and it's probably the Council of State aware – not to be blinded by what you say, and there may be a risk of double communication. What I want to ask is: does the Council of State see how much influence Saudi Arabia and their view of women has on Sunni Muslims around the world, also here in Norway through the funding of mosques, etc., and that it actually means something here in Norway too how we mark ourselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2177	It's obvious that different religious leaders are also exerting influence on other people around the world, except where they live. It is a challenge we see in many countries, and we are also taking it very seriously. I also think it's important to be aware that when we do our human rights work, we use, as I was a little bit into, a lot of different channels, but we also emphasize a lot of dialogue with those who are human rights champions themselves, because we don't want our work to make them more vulnerable than they already are. This is why, among other things, Our EU delegation in a meeting of Saudi human rights activists in Brussels just a few days ago. They were very clear that they wanted public attention. They also wanted us to maintain dialogue with Saudi authorities in order to contribute to change. That, I think, is also an important signal to take with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2193	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2208	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2216	‘The police are authorised to stop individuals and ask for identification. Such ID checks are usually directed at places where the police have experience of people without legal residence. In the absence of concrete knowledge, it will be the appearance that is the basis for whom the police control. The police have been criticized for arbitrarily controlling people with dark skin colour. How will the Council of States ensure that controls are not offensive or discriminatory?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2223	In order to detect persons without lawful residence, the police may carry out foreign checks. The control is provided for in Section 21 of the Foreign Affairs Act and the Police Directorate has, in circular 2001/021, provided detailed guidance on the exercise of foreign control by the police in the territory. One of the conditions for the conduct of a foreign check is that it should not appear to be arbitrary or discriminatory. The time, location and situation shall provide the basis for verification. In addition, intelligence information, modes and trends are part of the assessment. In addition, the purpose of the verification shall be communicated in a good manner. It is therefore not correct that the appearance is the basis for whom the police are controlling, which the magnificant uses in his question. Foreign controls are important to prevent and combat crime. Active crime control, including the prevention of illegal immigration and residence, shall take place throughout the country as part of the police's regular activities. This means that the police carry out foreign controls in connection with other types of controls in the police district, such as: control of commercial activities, public order, traffic control, etc. The basic training of police personnel shall enable police personnel to meet different groups in society with respect and tolerance, irrespective of age, gender, culture, outlook on life and perception of reality. Any check on persons shall be ethically and properly carried out, and foreign controls shall be carried out in a legal and professional manner. It is important for the police to maintain a good relationship of trust with the population also in a control situation. Discrimination should not occur, and the police are constantly working to raise awareness of this kind of issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2234	Thank you very much for the answer, but he did not entirely answer my question. I am concerned to know how the Council of State should prevent controls from working consistently and discriminatoryly. I am, of course, familiar with the agents the police have to run ID checks. The reason I ask the question is that Bergen's Official Journal has just done a survey in which they called all the police districts. It turned out that the various police districts are not logging ID checks, nor are they conducting statistics on ID checks, so neither the police districts, POD nor the state council have an overview of how many and who are actually being controlled. That is why I repeat the question: how can the Council of State work to ensure that the police's work does not seem offensive and discriminatory?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2239	The Directorate of Police's so-called territorial control circular sets out the various sources of control and sets out the approach to police control. It is clear from the Directive that records of incidents and checks carried out on suspected non-residents must be kept. The Directorate of Police has developed technological solutions, i.e.: hand-held units, for personal checks, which automatically record the check and the basis of origin. Parts of this will be used in 2018, and the Police Directorate will update the circular in line with this. I also assume that the Police Directorate will ensure that the police districts follow the circulars and the guidelines given by the Directorate, that is. keeping an inventory of the events.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2244	Thank you again to the Council of State. Of course, I am aware that the police have these homes, and that they are required to log in. The problem is that they don't. So my question is, what will the Council of State do about the police districts actually not following the circular they've been equipped with? We are facing a group of people, many of whom come from countries where they have very little confidence in the police. They can be refugees or asylum seekers, and they see the police in their home country as attackers. I'm worried that the ID controls, which are based on appearance, seem stigmatizing, and it also weakens the integration of this group. I have two questions: how is the Council of State supposed to ensure that the police do their job – logger and keep statistics? In addition, how does the Council of State expect the police to build confidence in this particular group?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2251	In my reply, I just explained that the circular should be followed, you should log, and I assume that the Police Directorate will follow up this year, and also when we now use digital tools that make control easier. The underlying legislation, when practised, creates a situation that should not be perceived as discriminatory or stigmatizing. I have great confidence that the Norwegian police in their day-to-day work is the basis for their work – we have a good training through basic training for the police, and it is also based on the number of complaints that have come, which are few, especially in recent years. So there is a good basis for saying that the police practice this legislation in a good and sensible way and do not lay the groundwork for citizens to feel stigmatized.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2261	This question, from Marit Arnstad to the Minister of Knowledge, will be raised by the representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2266	The question is: ‘Professor Trond H. Diseth and superior Stein Förde has demonstrated through investigations that teaching in many schools takes place using methods that give students considerable stress and have a common impact on bullying. In particular, they promote the widespread use of learning objectives and ‘self-evaluation’ as a reason for a growing number of students to suffer severe physical and mental distress that also leads to hospitalisation. Will the Council of State take action to reduce the extent of tests that make students ill?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2275	I am concerned that children and young people will be well at school. They must thrive and feel safe in order for them to learn and develop. There are very different and complex reasons why children and adolescents become stressed and develop mental disorders. Some of the reasons may be in school, but many are also outside the school’s influence. A new report commissioned by the Ministry of Knowledge points out that stress in school is due to an imbalance between demands and expectations on the one hand and support and resources on the other. It's about the expectations the students have for themselves, and the expectations they feel come from the school, the teachers, the parents and the community where they're going to work and succeed later. The amount of samples varies in school. National authorities require national tests on billing, English and reading to be carried out in steps 5, 8 and 9. These tests are not relevant to the grades of the students. There are also four mandatory screening tests broken down by 1st, 2nd and 3rd stages. These screening tests shall be used by the school and teachers to provide better support to students who need additional follow-up early in training. Students also have an oral and written examination after 10th grade in primary school. There is little reason to believe that the scope of these mandatory tests alone creates stress and mental distress in school. Trials may be stressful, but I would like to remind you that trials are also a tool to assess what students have learned, and to find out how the teaching can be adapted to individual needs. The school shall make demands and have expectations for the students, based on the students' own assumptions. Students have to face challenges that make them stretch. It may be felt like pressure, but it may also be necessary to perform and develop. If the students are subjected to long-term negative stress, they may have serious health consequences. Teachers and schoolteachers must take seriously students who show that they have a too demanding schoolwork day or who suffer from mental distress for different reasons. Teachers must use their professional judgement and decide what is best for the individual student. Schools can do a lot to combat stress. Variety of education that engages and challenges is important. Schools must also ensure a level playing field and help students to sort and prioritise. A socially good learning environment, where students feel safe, also counteracts stress. All those working with children and young people should have a conscious attitude about how demands and expectations are communicated in order to avoid negative stress. So we're now renewing the school curriculum. Public health and lifelong learning are one of three multi-disciplinary themes that go into school curricula. On this theme, we have, among other things: to provide students with competences to promote good mental and physical health. It shall help students to learn how to deal with access and adversity and personal and practical challenges in the best possible way. Finally, it is also essential that children and young people receive help when they need it. The Government has therefore proposed to grant more than 1 billion. kr to health centres and school health services in 2018. This is a continuation of the 2017 big bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2292	Thanks for the answer. Given the seriousness of the situation, I might have expected a clearer search of my own policies by the Council of State, for this question cannot be trivialised and dismissed. In addition to what I referred to in my question, there are several studies that all point in the same direction, and that show that the students pay a high price for testing, the use of learning goals and the pursuit of performance. Medical expertise points out that mental scars occur when six-year-olds, eight-year-olds and teenagers are required to set their own performance levels and label themselves with acidic face or by ringing around ‘high’, ‘medium’ or ‘low’ goals. This has consequences. Will the Council of State initiate measures to improve the system and remove the negative pressure?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2301	I suspect that the representative Knutsdatter Strand himself knows well about the school and what it is like to work in school. One of the things that I'm very concerned about, and that I think the Storting must also be concerned about, is to give the teachers confidence as professionals. This means, for example: that I as the Council of State cannot go in and impose some kind of pedagogy. It would be a very harmful way to run Norwegian school. I have some problems understanding what the Central Party really thinks about these questions, because they have thus opposed the level of competence that we have implemented for teachers. They've been talking a lot about that level of competence is a distrust of the teachers. Here I get questions about what I can do to override the academic judgement of the teachers. I believe – as opposed to the representative Knutsdatter Strand – that it is very important to give teachers the confidence they have as educated educators, but we should ensure that they have e.g.: a curriculum and a school that ensures that we have fewer skills objectives, but clearer objectives, such as: lifelong learning and the management of stress are an important competence for students to learn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2308	I do not feel that I get an answer to my question. It is clear that the Centre Party is in favour of competence in school, but when it gets retrospective and at the same time separates several thousand skilled workers in Norwegian school, we are critical. Now we have medical evidence – as I pointed out in my previous posts – that some interventions in Norwegian school make students both mentally and physically ill. Does the Council of State not believe that we politicians have a moral responsibility to follow up on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2317	I think we have a political responsibility to make sure that we have a school that equips the students for their everyday lives. When we received this report, we also received the results of a study on when the stress of the students has increased. Then, for example, we saw. that in 2009 there was a quite significant jump in the stress of students. In 2009, there were no new national tests. I believe the representative Knutsdatter Strand's own party was put in government at that time. No major changes were made in Norwegian school either. What came in 2009 was the iPhone. It became a public domain. That again means that the mission we have, and the renewal we now have of the school's mission, is to equip the students to handle a whole new time, which makes completely different and tougher demands on them as students. I think it's very important to have the level of competence that you're opposed to, because it also changes the way you teach, and the focus you have. But in addition, I am very concerned that we now need to have confidence in the school and the teachers, so that they can actually make sure that they do their job the best they can. I am absolutely convinced that the teachers in the classroom can do this much better than me, who is the Minister of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2324	Case No. So 3 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-08.ana.ud368e2338	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. I suppose none of the two here in the Chamber want the floor before the meeting can be concluded? - The meeting's been cancelled.
