ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-02.ana.ud540e2399	If no one has anything to object to, I will comply with the request.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-02.ana.ud540e2410	Then the President-in-Office will ask the secretary of the previous big business, Jette F. Christensen, to act temporarily as a secretary, until the Stortinget is constituted. From the Prime Minister's office there are three letters to Stortinget: The first letter dated 1 September 2017 reads: ‘Temporary Management Board of the Ministry of Knowledge State Council Torbjørn Røe Isaksen will terminate parental leave from 15 September 2017 until 26 November 2017. During that period, the Board of Governors of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen shall liquidate the parental leave of Mr Henrik Asheim to take over the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Knowledge.’ The second letter, dated 15 September 2017, reads: ‘Changes among the State Secretaries In the State Council of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on September 15, 2017 at 9.30 p.m. 11 a.m. is determined: Elsbeth Sande Tronstad is dismissed from his position as State Secretary for State Council Frank Bakke-Jensen. Lisbeth Normann is dismissed from his post as State Secretary to the Council of State Bent Höie. With effect from 30 September 2017, Tom-Christer Nilsen will be dismissed from his post as State Secretary for the State Council of Ketil Solvik-Olsen. Himanshu Gulati shall be dismissed from office as Secretary of State for Prime Minister Erna Solberg and Councillor Linda Hofstad Helleland with effect from 30 September 2017.’ The third letter, dated 29 September 2017, reads: ‘Changes among the State Secretaries In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 29 September 2017 at 9.30 p.m. 11 a.m. is determined: Mr Svein Arne Flätten is appointed State Secretary for Prime Minister Erna Solberg with effect from 1 October 2017. State Secretary Torkild Hebbert Haukaas shall be dismissed from office as Secretary of State with effect from 13 October 2017. State Secretary Vidar Brein-Karlsen shall be granted with effect from 9 October 2017 leave from his office as State Secretary to the Council of State Sylvi Listhaug, and shall be constituted from the same date until the State Secretary, Toril Charlotte Reynolds, is back from leave, as State Secretary to the Council of State Per-Willy Amundsen of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. Mr Torkil Åmland is hereby constituted as State Secretary to the State Council of Sylvi Listhaug in the Ministry of Justice and Defence of the time when Secretary of State Vidar Brein-Karlsen is on leave.’ The President-in-Office proposes that the letters referred to be annexed to the minutes – and considered adopted. The first alternate for Akershus County, Anne Kristine Linnestad, has taken the seat as a representative at the time the representative Henrik Asheim is a member of the government. Name calls will be made by the representatives. The President shall draw attention to the fact that the first representative of each constituency, or, where appropriate, the second representative in whom the first representative is not present, shall deliver the mandate of the Governing Council to the President as they are called up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-02.ana.ud540e2477	The President will propose that the last Rules of Procedure, as amended by the Stortinget on 21 June 2017, be put into effect. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. A number of permit applications are available: from representatives of Åsmund Aukrust, Sivert Bjørnstad, Anniken Huitfeldt, Nils Aage Jagstad and Mudasar Kapur on leave from 2 October to 13 October, all to attend the 72nd General Assembly of the United Nations in New York from the representative of Anette Trettebergstuen on parental leave for the period from 2 October to 31 October from the representatives of Sverre Myrli, Liv Signe Navarsete and Rigmor Aasrud on leave from 6 October to 9 October all to take part in the session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Bucuresti from the Workers' Party Group on the Permit of the Representative, Lise C, from 9 October to 13 October, and from 9 October to 11 October, and from 9 October to 11 October, both to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Hedmark County, Tone Merete Sønsterud, an application is made for an exemption from meeting in the Grand Duchy from 2 October to 6 October, under the leave of the representative Anette Trettebergstuen, to attend the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Andorra. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Akershus County: Mani Hussaini 2–12. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== ==References====External links== October. For the Province of Buskerud: Anne Helene Sandum 9–12. October. For Hedmark County: Tone Merete Sønsterud 7.–26. October and Per-Gunnar Sveen 2 and 6 October. For the State of Oppland: Stine Renate Håheim from 6 to 11. October and Hilde Kristin Holtesmo October 9th. For Oslo: Astrid Nøklebye Heiberg 2–12. October. For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Steinar Ness 6-9. October. For South Trondelag County: Little Harriet Sandaune 2–12. October. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Mani Hussaini, Kjartan Berland, Elisabeth Fanghol, Per-gunnar Sveen, Astrid Nøklebye Heiberg and Lill Harriet Sandaune are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-02.ana.ud540e2605	The Powers Committee shall then be chosen. The proposed members of the Powers Committee have been appointed by the Groups and the proposal has been distributed to the members of their seats in the Chamber. If no one has anything to object to, it is normal to vote for it. In the event of adversarial proposals being made, written voting shall be used. The issued proposal will then be used as a ballot. – No objections have been raised to this approach and the proposed approach will be followed. As members of the Committee of Plenipotentiaries, the following were unanimously elected: Une Aina Bastholm [[FRP]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-02.ana.ud540e2630	The acting President will request the newly elected members of the Committee of Plenipotentiaries to meet immediately after this meeting has been terminated. The meeting of the Committee will be held at the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee’s meeting room, Room S-407. Does anyone wish to speak under Section 54 of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
