ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e46	The representatives of Ingunn Foss and Liv Signe Navarsette, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: by the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representative Eirik Sivertsen on 15 and 16 May to attend the Arctic Parliamentary Meeting on Greenland, from the representative of Fredric Holen Bjørdal on parental leave from 15 May to 26 May by the Right-wing Group on sick leave for the representative Elisabeth Vik Aspaker from 15 May until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For More and Romesdal counties: Tove-Lise Square 15-24. May For the county of Nordland: Tone-Helen Toften 15–16. May For the counties of Troms: Regina Alexandrova 15 May and until further notice
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e121	The type of crime most people and businesses face here in the country are attempts at fraud and fraud on networks and digital platforms. The first time I remember hearing a lot about it was a few years ago when the so-called Nigeria letters came. They came from Nigeria, Ghana, and Côte d’Ivoire that they had won huge cash prizes, and they were to receive money that could be placed in banks, etc. The newspaper reported in the summer of 2012 that the Nordics had been cheated for 50 million. kr only that summer through these Nigerian letters. But after that, most people learned what these simplest versions of network fraud were, and what has happened is that the fraudsters have become increasingly professional and more inventive and advanced. I have seen that only my e-mail account here at Stortinget has received a number of enquiries with fake invoices, payment reminders, reminders, loan offers, various packages to post offices, travels – at the latest yesterday an invitation to a very strange conference in Paris – enquiries from friends who are in need of money abroad, etc. It's obvious that the networks involved in this business are increasingly connecting professional experts on how to get in, can hack in, and trick us all. One form that this has been given in recent years is that you're out to be from institutions and companies that we know, and that we trust. I have received enquiries of this type, which have also had media attention, for example. From the Tax Agency, where we were asked to pay tax evasion, get a refund of tax, and you had to go in there and there, and from the DNB, who pointed out that there was a very credible enquiry, because they had managed to copy the image of their side, so you should go in there to get a new version of Vipps, which many people use. We have received enquiries from NetCom, about the payment of a bill twice – we were going to go in to make sure we did not pay twice. We have been contacted by Sparebank 1, Danske Bank, Nets etc. whether we have to go in and update the card, otherwise the card will be blocked due to fraud attempts etc. There are many of these kinds of enquiries that it is not easy to be absolutely sure. I remember that when I was abroad, I was contacted by someone who appeared to be from Visa Norway, that there was someone who had tried to go in with my bank card and had typed wrong three times, and if I went in with that card, it would be blocked. It was a pretty credible address they had designed, and then you can scratch a lot in your head, even if you can be obs. I managed to avoid printing, and my card continued to work, but you can become unsure of these enquiries, and some go on the limb. There are also examples of them being able to hack known websites that we trust, and if you've been in there just when that happened, you've run a big risk of being stolen important ID information. These trials have become increasingly advanced, and it has been done quickly. Many people may have done it – we know that someone has done it. The national safety authority told them that they had only received 45000 enquiries in one year from companies that had been exposed to such advances, and here companies and customers go in one place, because when an enterprise is exposed to this, their customers are often the victims. I think it's important that we understand that this is not just a small problem, which is about less serious crime. I've talked to a person who's been exposed to these things, and there are quite a few thousand in Norway who are exposed to ID theft every year, and those who are in that situation -- I've talked to some of them -- are in a very desperate situation, because you live in uncertainty. We know that fake bank cards are produced when they get such information, and are sold online around the world. We know that they can take over the PC without us knowing it, and operate from it. We know that they can produce passports. We know that they can empty bank cards quite slowly, so you don't notice it so fast. They can try to borrow money on it, etc., they can take over an e-mail account – at all, make us unsafe for months. It's a very uncomfortable experience, a great strain, that many people have struggled with, and it's a very big attack on our privacy. I'd say it's the biggest organized attack on our privacy that goes online from these forces that operate professionally on this, and that's just about stealing IDs and acquiring personal data and operating in the name of others. We cannot have it as a continuous attempt at burglary – pocket thefts or what we are going to call it, ran out of ID – online without being able to get a better grip on it. We can't have some kind of legal space here with little risk of being taken. But the fact is that when we report such cases – I made an attempt myself just to test it, when I sat in the Justice Committee, and submitted a report – you get the same answer, which also the media refers to that others get, that there is no capacity to investigate this, and that the case has not been addressed. Fortunately, there was no discrimination between wholesalers and others, so the answer came quickly that the case was not dealt with. It's okay that there's no discrimination, but I wish these things weren't just sent out to local police stations, as they do now, where you don't have the skills or resources to investigate them. According to the media, the same answer to lack of capacity is given to the Tax Agency when they have reported these estimates against them, which then affects all of us who use the Tax Act. The same answer is given to DNB, to Nordea, to the Scandinavian Bank, etc. the lack of capacity and the fact that the case cannot be investigated, and is closed. The NRC reported in a notice dated 3 April that of the cases that had been brought to the central Oslo police district, 40 out of 44 were hospitalised last year – and the year before: 30 out of 33. In the same look up at NRK and in the previous look up, among others. in connection with my report, Kripos encourages both people and companies to report these cases. They say they want an overview, they want to get the number of reviews. In my opinion, that is all reason to do it – and take it seriously. The Business Security Council says that only 1 pst. of these matters are reported, so we really don't have a picture of how much is going on. One of the reasons why it is not reported is that people experience, and read, that there is nothing done about the reviews – they think they just have to live with it. That situation I think we can't continue to have, then the problem can grow over our heads. More and more of the functions in our society are being digitized, more and more of our lives, more and more of our services, of everything we do, of all the ways we handle our lives, are being done through digital solutions, both at home and in all the ways we communicate, to get us what we need to live, not just in terms of payment systems. So if we don't manage to attack this in another way, it can have major consequences for our social development. National safety authorities have estimated that looking at attacks on businesses, on customers, on people, the estimate of social losses is 20 billion. kr in one year. So it's a big question we're talking about, and not just a little trifle of things that people have to live with, I mean. It will always be said that these operate internationally. They can live in the neighborhood, because it's obvious that they know which store a user is, by the way, sending special gifts from that store as fake enquiries, but they can operate via international servers, etc. So there needs to be international cooperation; there needs to be increased skills. I believe that the reports need to be gathered at a police station, either one place at Kripos or one place in the police districts – not at local stations. I'm excited to hear the Council of State's assessment of how we're going to tackle this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e153	Initially, I would like to express the fact that ICT crime and the fight against it are very important to the government, and I also thank the representative for his commitment. The definition of ICT crime by the Ministry of Justice and Defence includes, inter alia: crime in which key elements of the course of action are committed using computer equipment and/or computer networks, as is the case in the case of network fraud. Internationally, ICT crime is reported to be as high as all other crimes combined. It is therefore important that public authorities, businesses and the media go out to provide information on new methods and new forms of fraud. Individuals also have a responsibility to protect themselves against fraud and fraud, for example. by being critical of websites that place different offers on the market. Unfortunately, many people are fooled and transfer money to criminal networks. Statistics for 2016 show that more than 14 000 general frauds and more than 1 400 serious fraud were reported. The notifications cover a number of different forms of fraud aimed at individuals, enterprises and the public. Reported fraud on the Internet forms part of these issues. Criminal proceedings include significant amounts. So-called dating fraud is one of several categories of web fraud related to individuals. Estimates based on Ecokrim’s receipt of enquiries from companies show that in 2015 more than 280 million were made. kr transferred by bank to fraudsters abroad. The corresponding estimates for 2016 were at least 205 million. kr. In the 2016 survey of the police, fraud is reported to be one of the types of events for which respondents are most concerned online. 29 pst. respondents respond that they are very much, or very much, concerned that this should happen to them. The same study shows that 7 pst. respondents report having been exposed to ICT crime or other crime on the Internet. The number of people surveyed for several years indicates that they are reporting ICT crime and that there are large numbers of people in the dark. In the case of fraud against enterprises, invoice and catalogue frauds are a stable but serious threat. These frauds are also largely committed via networks and e-mails. In the last few years, we have also had frauds in Norway where employees in companies are led to pay money on the basis of fake e-mails that appear to come from the top manager of the company. The success factor for good police action also in this field is a good knowledge base, good competence and capacity and well-functioning cooperation. Police action against online crime must be knowledge-based. The implementation of intelligence doctrines in the new police districts will contribute to this. Another action is the development of the threat assessment for ICT crime, which is one of the actions of the Ministry of Justice and Defence strategy to combat ICT crime. The follow-up of notifications is important. Although a case is closed, it may contain information that may help to strengthen the police’s knowledge base, including the police’s ability to prevent and investigate ICT crime at a later stage. It is therefore important that all network frauds are reported to the police. Researching ICT crime is often resource-intensive because research also requires a multidisciplinary approach. Close police reform will enable the new police districts to have a larger professional environment, which will be better able to deal with this type of crime as well. In 2016, in order to increase the police's knowledge and competence, Kripos took the initiative of setting up a specialist council for digital police work. It will contribute to knowledge sharing and empowerment across police districts. The Ministry of Justice and Security strategy to combat ICT crime from 2015 contains measures that will improve the police’s capacity and competence to investigate the issues raised by the interpellant. One of the measures concerns the establishment of centralised statistical reporting. The Directorate of Police has commissioned Kripos to make a selection of crime codes and modes to be included in a central statistical reporting on ICT crime. Another measure of the strategy is the establishment of a pilot project in the Oslo Police District. The main objective of the project is to describe how police districts can develop their response to ICT crime. In order to ensure a recommendation with the utmost relevance, the project team plans to visit seven-eight police districts. The final report of the project will be available at the end of the year 2017-2018. There is reason to believe that a large part of online crime is cross-border. Kripos has extensive cooperation with the police authorities of other countries as regards ICT crime and its fight against it. Europol and Interpol are key partners. Information on intelligence and criminal matters is shared, and links between countries and criminal groups can be seen through a joint analysis. It helps to prevent, clarify and correct ICT crime both in Norway and abroad. Cripos has several examples of such cooperation resulting in convictions of a principle nature, including: as regards data attacks against key societal actors and targeted attacks against the financial industry. Cooperation with the FBI has also resulted in the extradition of a target from Norway with subsequent criminal prosecution in the United States. The prevention of ICT crime is a high priority. The establishment of the Kripos network patrol has led the police to have a presence in the digital space. This has proved to be effective in interaction with the public, especially with a view to preventing ICT-related crime, but also as a tool for intelligence and investigation. Non-police interventions are important and necessary to prevent crime, as elsewhere. Two good prevention measures shall be mentioned: Netvett.no provides information, advice and guidance on ensuring the use of the Internet for individuals and businesses. Swindling online is one of several themes on webvet.com. For companies, the alert list.no is a useful self-help tool against invoice fraud and similar unfair promotions. alertlist.no is a cooperation between the NHO, Finans Norway, Accounting Norway, NSR, Working Party and Business Federation. The police also provide information and advice to prevent fraud, both on the website and in other ways. Examples of this are that in March this year, Økokrim issued a warning about e-mails with fake invoices, and More and Romsdal police districts reported a case of dating fraud and gave preventive advice. As my review shows, Norwegian police are doing a lot today to improve the investigation and increase the risk of detection. Now that we've got twelve more robust, skilled police districts, we're better equipped than before to fight fraud and online fraud.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e196	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good report, which shows that he takes this seriously and has an overview of a lot of things going on in the field. I have a couple of issues that I think it is important that we look at. One is that when the Council of State reviews the number of fraud reports – one question I had in the Interpolation text was the need to code these kinds of cases, data fraud, data fraud, that type of crime, on digital platforms, and the Council of State also describes how widespread it is internationally – there is a weakness in the figures of the Council of State that he cannot say how many reported frauds, frauds, online we have in Norway, because frauds can also be other things. So I want to ask, when we see how widespread, how serious and how big this form of crime is and can be in the future, whether it should not be a separate coding, so that you get a better overall overview, a better picture to analyse – and can build up knowledge based on it. It is also an important message for the Council of State when he says that he wants everyone to report, both audience and businesses. Then you need such an encoding to be able to use it for something – even if not all things are researched – because it will allow you to see lines in what's happening, and to select things that it's possible to go on with. I also want to ask for the organisation of this. Governments mentioned a council or meeting and exchanging knowledge. My danger for the moment is at least that the cases – the individual notifications – are sent to local stations, where you do not have the skills and resources to investigate them, and where the result is the answer that I referred to, that you do not have the capacity to deal with or do anything about the case. The question is whether it should be organised in a different way, at least that one has a common place in each police district – and possibly at Kripos. This is going on digitally, across Norway and across the world, and it is Kripos who is responsible for international cooperation. It would have been nice if the council would go into some of the more operational aspects of the case, in addition to the good analysis and assessment he contributed. There may also be questions of making it easier for people to report or report these cases, and that it can happen quickly, because it is a matter of speeding up the information that this type of attack or this kind of push is now taking place, so that the audience can become aware of it. Then it could be that a police reporting point, where you could pass on these enquiries, could simplify this very much for the audience – because here's the thing that can come to tens of thousands, not to say hundreds of thousands, of people at once.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e209	It is a fact that throughout the Western world we see a decline in most types of traditional crime — call it crime in the analogue space — with a very clear exception for assault, sexual crime. At the same time, we see a clear and clear increase in digital crime. We see that crime is moving – from the analogue to the digital space. As a society, we need to take the consequences of building the police, when we implement the police reform, which is an important and fundamental change, which needs to be put in place to better deal with crime in the digital space. I think it is an important function in the police reform that we are enabling the police to build these professional environments, to gain the skills necessary to combat crime in the digital space. I agree with the interpellant that coding of matters needs to be organised in order to be able to identify online crime in a better way. I see it as the work is going on, and it's important to be able to have good statistics, to have good knowledge. I also agree that it is necessary to facilitate an easy way of making the police aware of attacks. Online notification is an important point that you work to get in place, in the broadest sense. So I share the view of the interpellant in most areas. I think that we now have to look at how we build up these professional environments, so that we get the most rational adaptation possible, which means that through the combined impact – through the police, through the environments of competence we build – we are able to equip ourselves so that we can combat this type of crime as far as possible. It's competence-intensive. That's another way of working. It requires other professional environments – it is not the local loner who can investigate web fraud. It is also an important premise of police reform that we should facilitate this. The police will also need more effective instruments when it comes to combating crime in the digital space – but that is what I expect us to be able to come back to a little later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e222	I'm sure you will.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e227	On my way up to the pulpit, I got a text message from someone who said he was my bank and asked me to go in and confirm with an ID number. It may be quite right – I shouldn’t mention the name of the bank – but it also says that when you can no longer trust that the requests you receive are legitimate, it creates trouble for normal communication and lowers the usability of the amazing tool that being able to use digital solutions is also. I particularly thank the interpellant for raising an important question. I understand by reading the interpellation text that he has also reported. He was so restrained that he did not share with the Storting all his experiences in that regard. In general, I also have to say that you have to be quite concerned that ordinary people in their everyday lives experience that they can report a scam or an attempt to cheat, and then it does not get the follow-up that you can expect. We have a number of sentencing orders. Some are subject to unconditional public prosecution. It's because society says this is so strong that you shouldn't be able to leave it to insult yourself to not follow up. But here it seems like you're at the other end of the scale, almost by reporting here, not because it's going to happen especially in the case, but because you're interested in getting better statistics. I am deeply concerned that so many people feel that the authorities are waiting – yes to some extent passive – for something that is a violation of the penal code. So I would like to ask the Council of State more specifically: how many things are planned in Norway? How many people are in charge of this? So you could say it's an international cooperation. I noticed the response of the Council of State, which also needs to be interpreted to mean that it is especially in the case of attacks on institutional users – social critical infrastructure and the financial industry, of course – and you can understand that. But then you should not forget that you also have a job to do with the individuals who are exposed to this. Many of us are also in the situation that you don't even follow so much in society – I think of older users of the web – and there's something to look through these after and after the fraud attempts. This gives us information in good faith. So, in addition to the reorganization efforts and reforms that are being carried out, something must also be done in this area, where technologists and police authorities come together to build up what I want to say, namely digital privacy – that we can have our privacy in peace even when we are online. Of course, you also need to spread knowledge about how to view the web, and about what you shouldn't be lured into. But I don't want to say that this is so much prevention – just as it's not prevention, I think, in a valuable sense of the word, to leave to people to go to self-defense courses as a prevention measure to be assaulted corporatively. We're going to have a society where you can move out into the physical space without fear, and those who violate us physically have to answer for it. This logic has to be transferred to the digital society. Once again, I would like to thank the interpellant for a very good initiative, and I hope that interpellations like this can help boost the important work of the justice authorities to make everyday life safer for us all, and build stronger protection of the digital personality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e244	I would first like to thank the interpellant for raising a debate on a very important area of crime development. The Progress Party looks at developments in Internet fraud with concern, and is therefore pleased that the government is betting on the police and providing resources to combat crime in this area. There are numerous forms of fraud, and the use of the Internet and e-mail has led to a growing prevalence of fraud. In fact, there are now three times as many opportunities to be cheated online as being stolen from the wallet. Web fraud is the fastest growing form of crime. Most frauds are dealt with by local police districts, while ecocrim investigates the more complex and serious issues. It is important that the police take this seriously and that police districts build up more self-sufficiency and capacity in this area, as the Minister of Justice also mentioned in his reply to the inter-pellant. The progress party has noticed that through the network patrol, the police have been working to get closer to scammers in order to prevent and prosecute fraud. We believe that this work needs to be expanded and become a nationwide system. Unfortunately, many Norwegians have lost considerable amounts to international fraudsters, and many are not even aware that they themselves can be prosecuted if they are fooled, as they may have unconsciously participated in the financing of terrorism and other organised crime. The traditional Nigeria letters were sent for several decades from Nigeria and/or from persons of Nigerian origin residing in other countries to addressees in Norway. This was a letter that attracted great profits, and many were deceived by it. Yes, there are enough of us who have been tried to cheat in this way. After the Internet became available to most people, there was also a tool that the fraudsters used to get victims, and there was an increase in the number of scammers. Translation programmes sent out thousands of e-mails in Gebrokken Norwegian. Further reference was made to websites that were fake or copied from real banks and companies, where the fraudsters had put in their own contact information. In recent years we also see more frequent use of telephone calls or SMS messages to catch people's interest. With new technological solutions and better tools, fraud is becoming more and more advanced. Another serious challenge is that organised crime groups such as this can often also be active in drug trafficking and trafficking as well as in counterfeit trade. Unfortunately, it is not only economic gain that is presented as a provocative thing for the victims. A trend that has emerged in recent years is online dating. There is a risk of being contacted by both women and men in Africa, often Ghana, as well as Asia and Russia. Through online contact, a relationship is initiated via the media. A person would like to send pictures of the person he is in contact with, but there may be random images that the scammer himself has found online. In some cases you can also be left to another person without notice, who would like to be paid to continue the contact. The goal will be for the other party to trick the victim for as much money as possible through different stories and explanations as to why money has to be sent. It could also end with threats and extortion. Other ways in which fraudsters try to obtain victims are the sale of animals, brand clothes, vehicles, the purchase of vehicles and the rental of holiday items. Common to all frauds is that the victim does not necessarily understand that it is a fraud until it is too late. In all of this, it becomes more difficult to perceive fraud by the fact that they today often operate with Norwegian addresses, and they can call from Norwegian phone numbers. Police in several European countries are actively working against this kind of fraud, in particular England, Spain and the Netherlands. The Progress Party believes the police have a huge job in preventing web fraud. The effort is important, and it is important that those responsible are taken and punished, but it is also necessary that each of us make the most possible possible to protect the information about ourselves online, while at the same time considering what we are doing, and what choices we are making ourselves. Finally, it is important to say that we must all report fraud when we discover that we have been subjected to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e269	I've had the pleasure of visiting the Oslo Police Department's Data Crime Department on several occasions. There are at the top of twenty very competent and dedicated men and women dealing with a large number of issues that go right into the heart of what this interpellation is about. In 2011, they dealt with 69 000 cases with digital tracks – and only in Oslo police districts. It says something about the violent, the colossal, extent of this crime. And that was in 2011, it's starting to be a few years ago, the number certainly hasn't been reduced since that time. The importance of this interpellation and this theme is also underlined by the darkness survey, to which the Council of State also referred, as published annually by NorSIS. The last obituary shows that 9 pst. by the enterprises in the survey notifying data crime – 9 pst. That is, there is a large number that does not report, even if it goes straight into the business area and on the bottom line of the enterprises. So there's no doubt that this interpellation is important, and I want to thank the interpellant for the theme going on. The same NorSIS eventually gave back an analysis of what they called the data security culture in Norway. There are especially two findings where I want to draw out. The first is that in that study, 40 pst is equal to 40 pst. by the respondents that they believe the police are unable to help them resolve data security breaches for their part – 40 pst. It's a large number -- an overnumber. It says something about us having a job to do here in the hall and in the police, because this has to do with trust in the police's work. The second thing found in the analysis that I think it's important to highlight is that 40 pst. believes that cyber-activists have a role to play in combating cybercrime. It is defined as groups like Anonymous and other types more or less – I would say – smaller, legitimate activist groups. They think I don't have a role in this picture at all, because it's an emergence of a kind of digital civil protection that's just as suspicious and unwanted as any kind of other civil protection. We have to stop that. We can't accept that. This is why the police's efforts in this area are important. The interpellant has correctly addressed the question of whether it is correct to report, but the answer is, of course, yes. We have to report at any cost any crime involving cybercrime, as is the case for any crime of any kind. It helps to give the police an overview of crime and thus a better basis for combating it. In terms of surveying, the international analysis shows that data crime globally amounts to 15 million dollars a year — 18 zeros — and that crime is expected to double in just six years. This is a machine that's so huge, it's growing, and it's generating and financing new crime, which underlines the importance of strengthening our efforts. I'm very pleased with the Council's response. It shows that the government is active, conscious, takes action, deploys resources and focuses. It confirms the importance of the close police reform to strengthen police efforts in the neighbourhoods and police districts. I also want to say that something that characterizes data crime is that victims and practitioners are often in different parts of the world, crossing national borders. It is a task for us as legislators to ensure that we take the necessary initiatives to ensure that jurisdiction is in place across borders, to face this crime internationally. Thank you for the interpellation, and thank you to the Council of State for your answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e293	I would like to contribute to magnifying the bouquet of flowers to the interpellant in order to address this theme. Net crime is a social sin that we not only need to fear will grow bigger and bigger, but a threat we unfortunately also have to expect will increase and increase to an extent – and from a very high level, as the Council of State and others have documented. It is a form of crime that can affect anyone, almost at any time, for example. on the way up to the pulpit of the Storting. This is, of course, a situation that is very uncomfortable for all of us, as the interpellant was about. It is therefore timely that we constantly ask questions about what measures can be taken to prevent the frequency and extent of drug use and to increase the percentage of drug use. Today’s interpellation debate — important as it is — can in any case be no more than a taste of a major problem, both in scale, depth and not least in complexity. It has to be followed up, also in Stortinget, and I assume that the Council of State finds a good form to do this at a later stage. Interpellation is concentrated on the tools to be used to ensure that as many web browsers as possible are taken. Clarification of crime is a task of the police. It is therefore essential that the police are well organised and have the necessary top expertise, sufficient experience and, in particular, good computer systems – areas in which today’s government has provided and which will remain a high priority area for this government. The fact that there was a broad majority for police reform is important in this context. It gives the police predictability to develop their processes on a planned and long-term basis. And the action of police reform to reduce the number of police districts will create more powerful investigative environments across the country – a necessity for the detection of the methods and tracks of network offenders. As important as strengthening crime detection efforts are efforts to prevent cybercrime by making it more difficult for web browsers to succeed. Here, broad mobilisation is important. Both public authorities, private institutions and – I want to emphasise it – each of us has a responsibility to contribute to this. Interpellant and I belong to the same generation – a generation that has grown up without mobile phones, the Internet, PCs and online banks. We belong to a generation that probably has a greater need to get help to avoid losses, than those that are a few years younger than us, in our daily work. But our generation is far from the only one who needs such help in our online everyday life to make such crimes more difficult. It is therefore important that the government ensure that the theme is high on the agenda in many areas of public administration, so that we are all better equipped to resist crime and feel somewhat safer. A very important area is the financial industry. High attention and good interaction between the Financial Supervisory Authority, Finance Norway and individual actors in the financial industry have been and will continue to be able to make important contributions to the fight against this type of crime. Banks, insurance companies and other financial actors not only have a natural obligation to build up as safe systems as possible, but they are also incredibly important intermediaries of knowledge to each customer about actions we can contribute to. The fight against web fraud is not a battle that can be won once and for all. This is an eternal struggle in which we all have a responsibility to participate – internationally, nationally, at company level and at individual level. Most importantly, we provide the police with the necessary predictability and financial resources to face up to the struggle. Increasing the clearance rate also increases the likelihood that the number of attacks will be lower than they would otherwise have been.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e314	Like many others, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important question that poses a major problem for many in our country. ICT crime can be as great as all other crimes combined, said the Council of State in its statement. It says something about the extent of this type of crime – 14,000 reviews, large numbers of darkness and large sums. The representative, Mr. Werp, said that the money that comes in can also be used for new crime, which can also give us a big challenge. The Police Directorate, in consultation with the National Attorney General, set up in April 2011 a working group to identify the police’s work on ICT crime, electronic tracks and online police tasks. This group was to assess how further work was to be done on these areas in the future. The working group found, among others: police districts did not make systematic efforts to get an overview of what is happening in ICT crime, in addition to what is reported, of course. Now, when we ask the police, it seems that little has changed since 2011, that there is still no systematic work in the police districts to get an overview of what is happening in ICT crime. The group also found that little data crime is being investigated and clarified, and that is still the case. The representative Tetzschner also mentioned this in his statement, whether it is more important to have statistics than it is actually to go into all the notifications and challenges we have, and not least to clarify the offences that are taking place. Online attempts at fraud and fraud are the most increasing forms of crime affecting most of the population in Norway. These are still new forms of fraud. Of course, we each have a responsibility for how we protect ourselves against this crime, both in terms of the use of computers, networks and telephones, and not least in terms of opening up emails and all enquiries we get where there may be a suspicion that there are not the right senders who are asking for your services. There are many who are seriously offended by this in connection with the economy, and, not least, who were also inside here, in terms of dating pages, where one pays large sums to others around the world. The police reform is now taking place in all twelve police districts. It shall ensure a stronger professional environment and better investigation. I know that the Council of State also agrees, and we want us all to be better, but I'm concerned that it should not go exactly as we intended when we agreed on the agreement on police reform. I can't see that it's being added to a data crunch in the districts, which is one of the areas we talked about. Although the Council of State constantly claims that there has been more money for the police, and that everything is so much better than before, the Council of State cannot avoid taking over the concerns and criticisms of the police in the districts. They experience a demanding resource situation. In Oslo police districts, which was also attended by the representative Werp, many employees work well. But then it's about digital tracks and not how we're going to fight online crime and work against the notifications that come. They feel that civil positions remain unoccupied, because the only places where police officers have the opportunity to cut in positions and in budgets are in these areas. This could be done, for example, by: for computer engineers. Then we all realize that we have a big challenge. In particular, interdisciplinary and multi-disciplinary competence in this area is very important in order to achieve this. The number of users of the Internet is increasing, and they are getting younger and older. Even though the police need all the policemen they can get, they also need civil positions. They need researchers who have different backgrounds, such as: computer skills. I think one can ask any of the country's police officers, and one will get the same answer. They don't have the money to man up against a real bet against data crime. They give enough priority to someone working with the electronic tracks – that’s good, and it’s needed – but that’s not enough, especially in criminal cases, including the use of drugs. One does not have the resources to mannounce against data crime, such as drug addiction. fraud and fraud or other serious online crime. If the Council of State disagrees with my description of reality, I would ask the Council of State to share some figures with us, figures on how many in the various police districts are working on researching online crime, and then I mean not those who are working to secure electronic tracks, but actually data crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e335	I was very pleased with the contributions here today, for the commitment and content of the contributions of the representatives of Tetzschner, Thorheim, Werp, Helgerud and Asphjell. It was a real will to go into this from the Biggest side that is very promising for how we can work on this together in the future. These were important examples that Thorheim's representative gave us, what we can be exposed to – that gives us insight. What was also mentioned is that without knowing it, it can contribute to terrorist financing. Your ID can be copied, bank cards issued, etc. You can have comprehensive systems – and money can go that way. I was very surprised when I spoke to someone who is operating in the nightlife settings in Oslo for a short time. One of the people who was active there told me that his specialty was online fraud and business. We need to be aware that when traditional organised criminals, among other things. In the rest of the world, the threshold here is the lowest – unfortunately, that kind of crime is never or almost ever taken for, and you have the impression – all criminal, professional criminals, who analyse what they can do most, can move into this field. So the warnings from the Storting that this can get bigger and bigger, there's every reason to notice. I'm glad that everyone says that this has to be reported, will encourage people to report. The Council of State said it, and all the representatives said it. And I'm glad the council said these things have to be coded so that we can get an overview of them, that they're not inside a pool where you can't use the knowledge that the reviews give. This would lead us to realize that here a completely different kind of effort is required resourceally, because it's clear that if everyone reports here, the extent will explode. The representative Werp mentioned that the last one was that 9 pst. by the enterprises reporting such a situation, they said in the past 1 pst. There are at least very large numbers of darkness, and there are even more huge numbers of darkness among the customers, people who are being attacked. So that will lead to discussion about resources and where to deal with it. Ecocrim – which was mentioned here as a central body – takes in very few cases, so it is not a suitable place to deal with these issues. I am very pleased with what the representative Tetzschner said that we can't have the situation that people feel that nothing is happening here, this is where the penal code is broken, and you just have to accept that nothing is happening to the reports. It creates an attitude toward crime that we cannot live with. I have also met older people – the representative Tetzschner also mentions that – who feel quite defenceless about this phenomenon. So I'm happy for the debate. It promises well for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e348	Let me first start by getting a receipt of what I see as an attack on the government, which was a little wrong in this context. There has never been as much effort on the police as what is done under this government. Actually, we've increased the budgets so far by 2.5 billion. kr, and we put all the records this year with new additions, new year's work, in the police. Only today the government is clear that you're going to add 100 million. kr extra in the pot to purchase equipment for the police districts. This debate goes into the big discussion about how to connect the police for the future. What we do through the police reform is an important foundation for solving this type of crime and is a premise that is important in terms of the professional environment, competence, building the environments we need. It answers organisationally, but also technologically, many of the challenges we face in the field of digital crime. It will shortly be a special body investigation – a NOU – that I think will be very interesting in how we will organise that part in the future with a view to the police reform. There's a lot of focus on this area at all – turning around to adapt to the new reality. There will be a big message about ICT security before the summer. So I think we also have to raise the question about police methods. To combat crime online, and to combat crime in digital space, the police will probably also need more methods – effective ones – to combat this type of crime. IP storage is a topic that was discussed in Stortinget yesterday and to which the Committee will come back at a later stage – there is a proposal for a representative there. However, it is an example of a type of action that is probably needed just to have effective means of combating this type of crime. I thank you again for raising this question, because it is important. When we discuss much of what is the premise for the adjustments we are making in the police now – the changes that follow from the reform, this is an important foundation and basis for us to make those changes – I note myself and reflect a little on who is not participating in the debate here today. Those who are opposed to us implementing a reform we need to combat digital crime, nor do they want to participate in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e359	So the debate is on case No. 1 a.m. The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e389	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e400	I would like to begin by thanking the members of the Committee for a constructive dialogue during the work. The issue we are now going to debate is important to many foster parents, and I feel that the members of the committee have a genuine commitment to foster parents and their everyday lives. A good foster home system in Norway is important to ensure that children and young people receive the care they need to develop their abilities and become independent adults. The government is committed to providing good and predictable, professional and financial framework conditions for families who assume the important responsibility of being foster parents. When, last year, the Minister for Children and Gender Equality presented a report on foster homes to the best of children, discussing challenges with the foster home system and presenting proposals for solutions, the Stortinget decided to ask the government to initiate an investigation into the foster home system. In 2015, the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family developed an overview of issues related to tax and social security rules that could affect the overall financial environment of foster parents. The Government has recently appointed a public body to develop a NOU in the foster home area. In this work, the sample will also look at the framework conditions of foster parents and issues related to social security benefits. The Committee points out that today there are families who are losing to being foster parents. To this end, the Committee urges the Government to ensure, as soon as possible, that no one experiences a net loss of social security benefits by assuming responsibility as foster parents. Foster homes are the most commonly used option for children and young people who cannot live with their parents. Nursing parents carry out the care assignment in their own home, and many work alongside them. Being a foster parent is more in line with taking care of your own children than normal pay. Thus, the financial compensation for foster parents shall reflect the efforts they make by assuming responsibility for society. It is important that the Stortinget puts children's growing-up conditions on the agenda. Children are entitled to safe growing-up conditions. In many cases a foster home ensures this safety. It's challenging to recruit foster homes for the kids who need it most. That's why it's important to work for more adults to take on this mission on behalf of all of us. There must also be increased efforts to provide guidance for foster parents, but also training for the best interests of the child. At the same time, it is necessary to take care of the child’s perspective and to regularly supervise foster homes. Foster homes are not only about quantity but also about quality. Norwegian child protection has a central role to play for children who are victims of injustice and care failure. This is why the government has taken substantial steps to strengthen the quality of social worker training, but also by launching work on creating a new child protection law. Article 3 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child has clearly underlined: ‘In all acts concerning children, whether by public or private welfare organisations, courts, administrative authorities or legislative bodies, the best interests of the child shall be fundamental.’;» This Article of the Convention on the Rights of the Child is also binding on Norway. When child protection in Norwegian municipalities is working to protect the rights of children, we politicians are not always as good at supporting this work. We should get better at that. When social workers are exposed to threats in a work they do on behalf of all of us, we politicians must take action to ensure their working day. Good foster home work requires interaction between politicians, skilled social workers and families who take on the important task of opening their homes to those who need it the most. Therefore, as a society in the future, we need to invest in good social work in Norwegian municipalities. It deserves our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e441	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers behind these two issues. Thanks also to the case rapporteur, who has contributed to the prompt request by the government of a unanimous committee for a transitional arrangement for foster parents with social security benefits, so that they do not risk losing their money on the important task they have undertaken by being foster parents. It is difficult enough for child protection to recruit good foster homes if the state itself is not to poke heads in the wheels of these families when they take on the challenging task of opening their homes to children and young people who have bad experiences behind them, who often have deep traumas to process, and who, not least, have a great need for love, security and stability in their lives. The biological principle stands strongly in Norwegian child protection. It takes a lot of time before the state enters and takes care of a child. The children who eventually come to foster homes may have lived with care failure and abuse for many years. First, it often takes time before someone at all discovers and responds to that everything is not as it should be. In addition, children are very loyal to their parents, in any case. Many who suffer at home, where they were supposed to be safe, do their best to hide what they are exposed to. Secondly, as a general rule, relief measures at home should be tried first, before the protection of children goes to the step of taking a child out of the family. In the cases that happen, the children are often injured for life, they may have lost all confidence in adults and are reluctant to connect new bands, because they have failed so many times before. It takes time to build new trust. Stability is essential for these children and for the foster parents. In many cases you can't do it. Some children experience shifting between institutions and multiple foster homes. Then it should not be the State that is the triggering cause. foster parents make a great effort for the nation's children. Yes, because it is the state that is responsible for them when parents are deprived of care. Then it becomes almost absurd when, in some cases, the state itself shortens social security benefits against foster home allowances, so that the family economy forces foster parents to resign. It's the kids that get the most hurt, but also good foster parents that look at these kids as their own. It's not a job, it's a lot more than that. The direct prelude to the two representative proposals we are discussing today is the NRK Rogaland lookup from a very little Christmas night last year, about a foster father who had cancer. He lost his right to work clearance and risks a claim for a refund of NOK 200000. When such matters become known, it not only affects the individual family — it also affects the possibilities of recruiting new foster parents. The matter we are dealing with now is a victory, both for reason and for justice. The case from Rogaland is, as far as I am aware, under review. Neither gamblers' representatives nor state councils can intervene in such cases. They have to go their own way. But I actually assume that Nav is following what the Storting is doing, and is making sure to waive this requirement on their own initiative, because they have full access to it. Unfortunately, this case is not unique. There are a number of examples of similar situations for foster parents who become ill, ill, ill, long-term or unemployed. For example, foster parents who become unemployed may risk moving or commuting in order not to lose the right to a day’s allowance, even if in the circular on real jobseekers, exemptions have been made from the removal requirement for reasons of gravity related to children in the immediate family. foster parents have signed an agreement with child protection on stability and often also on geographical proximity to the place of origin of the foetus; But if they tick the message card that they can't move, they're at risk of losing the right to a daily allowance. But not all, for there are different practices in such matters from the Nav office to the Nav office. The Storting has dealt with this matter before and asked the government to review the legislation for foster parents. It happened a year ago. It was only the Right Party and the Advance Party that voted against. When, in today's letter of reply, the Council of State refers to the development of a NOU where the legislation is to be incorporated, we do not believe that it is necessary to wait for it. The matter has been well investigated by Bufdir in connection with the foster home message last year. The minority, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, are impatient and suggest that the government bring matters up now. It would also be left in its original proposal. But it is to live with, if we immediately have a transitional arrangement that brings an end to today's unfair practices, as a unanimous committee has suggested. Nevertheless, I would like to address the proposals promoted by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e460	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e468	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for handling matters well through the Committee and for ensuring such broad agreement on the most important issues. I would also like to thank the representatives who have promoted these two issues, because they address an important issue, because if we take good care of foster parents, it will once again help them to take good care of foster children. The Progress Party has had a strong commitment to particularly vulnerable groups throughout all years. There's little doubt that foster children are such a group. That's why we've been working every year to make foster children as secure and stable as possible. I myself, in my former role as a local politician, have looked closely at the need for good and safe foster homes. There I have also seen the job they're doing, and the challenges they can face when they're faced with a time-long square code. Therefore I will use this opportunity to give honor to all those who choose to share by themselves, their home, their family and their time to be foster parents. Without them, many children would have had it even harder. To the matter: It is still the case today that some foster parents experience challenges in addition to dealing with vulnerable children. In today's debate, we particularly look at cases where foster parents become ill, divorced or unemployed. I'm glad the government has started an investigation into foster care. It is quite natural that foster homes experiencing disease, permity or unemployment become part of this investigation. I am myself – and I know that the government is also – concerned to see it all in one context. It is not that a performance with its requirements, assumptions and effects can or should be seen separately. The arrangements must be seen in the context. Responding to the minority’s proposal for a decision could easily result in unintended negative consequences. Therefore, I think it is best to find a transitional arrangement until the investigation has come and a permanent arrangement can be put in place. It must also be allowed to come with a little heart attack. Based on the opposition's comments and rhetoric, it almost seems as if the issue is completely new and has arisen recently. Let me then point out that this is not new, and that the previous government had the full opportunity to get hold of it, but they did not. In conclusion, I would like to point out that I believe that we all share the same motives at the heart of the matter, as we also heard from the representative Lise Christoffersen. We want vulnerable children to grow up under safe conditions. We will make the threshold for becoming foster parents the lowest possible, and we want public welfare schemes to function properly without unintended, negative consequences for foster children or foster parents. Then we're dependent on seeing everything in a context, and I'm therefore very happy that until we get this in place, we're going to have a transitional arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e487	I would also like to thank, first of all, the Norwegian Foster Home Association, then the proposers, and not least the case rapporteur, who has a heart for such matters. I really appreciate that. foster parents are a foundation of child protection when we are in the situation that parents and relatives do not have the power to provide their children with security. I want to underline the last. foster parents carry out care tasks in their own homes, and many have undertaken income-bearing work alongside the role of foster parents, either as maritime workers or as employees; The financial compensation that foster parents receive shall reflect the efforts they make by taking on a care mission for society, which they have experienced. We are in the situation today that there are families who lose their parents because they get curtailed social security benefits as a result of their nursing work as foster parents. This legislation raises doubts and uncertainties about the foster home system, and it is incredibly sad that the foster home system is so central to improving the provision of child protection. I will be brief: the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV ask in the proposal that the government return to the Stortinget with the necessary changes. We believe that there is sufficient distribution, and that there is such a broad consensus that this must get its legal, regulatory anchoring without any further delay. However, when we do not get any answers to that, we are pleased that we are going to have a consensus on a transitional social security scheme for foster parents that ensures that they do not lose money on being foster parents, and that the system will apply until a new legislation on foster homes is in place. This should be a good solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e499	Today, we are going to make an important decision for all the families that the Left believes are doing one of the most valuable jobs, all of the 11,000 families in Norway who have taken on a public parent on behalf of the state. These are families who want to care for those kids who, for various reasons, cannot live at home with their biological parents. Also, many of these kids should never move home again, but have grown up with the new family. The aim of child protection for these foster children is to make it possible to create new and lifelong relationships, to give the foster child a new family to whom they can contact even when they are adults, to establish a new and good connection in safe, predictable and long-term foster homes. That's what we want the state to facilitate. Many have been angry and upset about Nav for years. Already in 2014 left-wing representatives raised several written questions about Nav's practice of an unfair law. The left has even asked for a separate staging message to review the terms and clean up where needed. Let me just briefly say a little bit about what Left has challenged the government councils Solvency Horne and Robert Eriksson on, back in 2014. Then it was a lonely foster mother who was injured after a traffic accident, and after the traffic accident she could no longer work. Because she had a foster child living, Nav reduced her disability to 80 pst, and it seems, of course, completely unreasonable. Last night we were informed from this foster mother that her case has still not been resolved. The kid still lives with her, but it pays off financially for her, as a mother, to send this kid away, and today they live below the poverty line. The kid gets to live there because the mother doesn't want her to move, but Nav makes the situation difficult. We don't want to have that, and we expect Nav to clean up, and that both her case and similar issues will be resolved. We had initially believed that the rule change to Nav had cleaned up for those who were permanently dissatisfied and who were also foster parents, because it is possible to be a good parent, provide care and provide security even if one of the different reasons could not be at work. This applies either to the disability or to the receipt of a daily allowance or redundancy allowance. The direct reason why the Left once again put the foster parents' situation on the agenda is this family from Rogaland that several people have talked about. There is a cancerous father who has received a claim of almost NOK 300000 because the foster home allowance should have led to a shortening of work clearance. Since he got sick, he should have received less compensation as a foster father – or sent the kids away. No one can understand that we have a code that makes it difficult for the kids and for the parents – who want to do, and who do, a good job on behalf of the community. We know that relocations are unfortunate, and that this legislation, as practised today, is unfortunate for the recruitment of foster homes, for which there is a great need in our society. I am pleased that this unfair practice is now over. This is a victory won by individuals, and then it's extra happy that we can adopt this today, because it describes the individual's victory over a rigidity and an unreasonable Nav system. And although there are individuals who benefit from this rule change, it is an important victory for all foster homes in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e520	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for a good and thorough work on an important matter. This is a matter that means a lot to those involved – a lot. That families with care open the door and invite children and young people who need security in a new home, into themselves, is important to society, but it is absolutely vital for the individual. Then it is important that when helpers themselves need help, the community has to set up. Cuts in benefits to ensure the economy in the event of sickness or job loss can force a choice that wants to make, namely to stop being a foster parent because the economy is shaving and the alternative is to sell the house. Therefore, it is gratifying that we in layers correct this injustice by saying that there should be a transitional arrangement as soon as possible to ensure that foster parents do not lose social security benefits. I would like it to be possible to go further, be clearer and say that it is not just a transition, but a duration we want to get in place, that we could stand by it, that we could establish that there is no doubt that foster parents are exempt from the requirement of moving in the event of loss of work. But it's not going to take away the joy of what we've actually managed to agree on. I would also like to thank the Foster Home Association and courageous individuals today who have given this matter a face. Then I also have to say that there are paradoxical times for kids who need the public to provide care and security. We have a blue-blue government that says it doesn't matter who's doing a task, only it's being done, and there's no difference between welfare services and other services. It means that there are good times for those who want to make stores of vulnerable children. The result is that while child-restraint workers barely have time to eat their food package, the Minister for Children has no idea how much and how much money has been allocated to the child-restraint barons. It is paradoxical that while foster parents have been called upon to provide social security benefits, a Cologne foster home king has run hundreds of millions, as VG has documented. It suggests a system that is out of control, where the market is put over people in an ideological blind track that makes stores of vulnerable children rather than ensuring that every single penny goes to the most important, namely the kids. For exposed infants, 100 pst is required. They require 100 pst. Attention and 100 pst. love, 100 pst. Of the money the community has set aside for exactly them – because they deserve it, and because they need it. It does not do child protection barons and foster homes. How we establish well-being, how we use public funds, how we safeguard the community when people are exposed to care failure and abuse, are important choices for the future, and it is vital that we have strong communities to secure those who do not have care and security in their homes. That is why I am pleased that foster homes and foster parents today are also going to have security of social security benefits – without shortening. I would like to join in the call from the representative Christoffersen that Nav should follow the debate and refrain from claims that there is actually no majority or basis for requesting. Today we gather that foster parents too are to be safeguarded by the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e535	First of all, I would like to say that the commitment of the proposers to good foster care and good framework conditions for those who take on this important work is an commitment that I fully share. It is important to have good and complete foster care and that it is always at the best of children. The government is committed to providing good and predictable, professional and financial framework conditions, guidance and support to families who assume the important responsibility of being foster parents. Last year, the government submitted a large-scale report on foster homes to the best of children and has now appointed a public body to develop a NOU in the foster home area. The mandate for the work of the panel shows that the framework conditions and issues related to social security benefits of foster parents should be taken into account, inter alia. in the case of sickness, disability and unemployment. The selection will provide a NOU at the end of 2018. The financial compensation received by foster parents shall reflect the efforts they make by undertaking a care mission for society. Part of the allowance foster parents receive from the municipality is regarded as pensionable income and is taxed as remuneration. This has also been important for the Foster Home Association. This has the advantage of giving wages and salaries for pensions, redundancy payments and other social security benefits. As for others who receive wages, income usually leads to a reduction or shortening of social security benefits. The Norwegian Foster Home Association has worked for a long time to ensure that the allowance for foster parents does not lead to a curtailment of redundancy payments and daily allowances. Being a foster parent has a primary character of idealism, and the task is considered more in line with taking care of your own children than with wage work. I understand that many people can react to the fact that foster parents’ pay leads to a shortening of e.g. day pay and redundancy pay. I agree that the economic situation of foster parents who receive benefits or redundancy benefits should be improved. My department has therefore already started work on assessing changes in the rules on the curtailment of redundancy payments and the daily allowance for foster parents. This will require both financial appropriations and regulatory changes. The government aims to return to Stortinget with proposals for how this can be done, already in the state budget for 2018. The requirement for geographical mobility to fulfil the conditions for receipt of daily allowances implies that the whole country is considered as a single labour market. Beneficiaries must be willing to move or commute to work where they exist. Exemptions from mobility requirements may be made where serious social considerations related, inter alia, to: care responsibilities for young children, so to speak. Because of the care situation, foster parents may benefit from this derogation in line with biological parents. In practice, therefore, foster parents are treated in the same way as biological parents when assessing the requirement for geographical mobility. Both unborn children and other children may have special needs that make it particularly burdensome for a caregiver to leave. This has to be assessed in concrete terms on a case-by-case basis. It is important that foster parents receive good information about the rules and rights that apply to them. At a meeting earlier this year between my department, the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion, and the Norwegian Foster Home Association, several challenges were addressed by the members of the association. In order to improve information, the Directorate of Labour and Welfare has launched a review of circulars and information material to ensure that the rules on foster home allowances and Nav benefits are consistently and clearly displayed. From January this year, users are explicitly informed that foster home compensation is to be included on the notification card. Following the meeting, the departments have received useful input from the Norwegian Foster Home Association, which will be followed up. in the current public body. The selection will provide a NOU at the end of 2018. However, regardless of the work of the sample, the government will come back to the Storting with proposals that will improve the framework conditions for foster homes, already in the context of the state budget for 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e560	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e567	I was actually going to ask the Council of State when she thought she would be able to put in place that transitional arrangement a unanimous increase is now going to ask for, but then the answer came in the post – it comes in connection with the state budget for 2018. However, in the meantime, before it is in place: Norwegian Foster Home Association has shown that there are different practices from the Nav Office to the Nav Office, and that in some places there is no possibility to make exceptions, for example. from moving requirements. My question is: Will the Council of State clarify to Nav and refer to the practice of individual Nav offices today, and ask that it also become the practice of the other Nav offices, so that we can get equal and fair treatment until new rules are on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e574	Yes, I can confirm that. Nav is well aware that there have been different practices, and is now reviewing its circulars to clarify this. When I said this with the state budget for 2018, it is also to emphasise that the proposal is about finding a transitional regime as quickly as possible and, as I mentioned earlier and have informed the Committee, this desire, which we agree is now to be implemented, both the need for legislative changes, with the processes it requires, and it requires appropriations. That is why it is so natural to come back to Stortinget with it already in the 2018 budget. But as I mentioned, Nav is now reviewing his circular and his information material to make sure you get good, clear information for the users and a consistent Nav practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e579	Thanks for the answer. It is clear that appropriations must be made available, but hopefully this will lead to a corresponding reduction in expenditure in the budget of another department because everyday life is improved for some foster homes and for some foster children. But the last question I had intended to ask was what I referred to in my post that there are now some complaints in progress where people feel unfairly treated. I pointed specifically to the case from Rogaland, and I also pointed out that we can't go into that kind of case, but I'll still ask the Council of State if she might be a little careful to think of reminding Nav of the possibility of turning decisions on its own initiative, because it would seem very unfair for those who now have complaints, and perhaps even experience having them rejected, if we've already decided here that we want to change practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e585	Yes, I'm concerned that Nav is going to use the action space Nav has, but at the same time Nav has to deal with the legislation that is, that we've decided, and the framework that exists. To the extent that and in the areas where Nav has a room for action within law and regulation, they should of course be able to use it, but you can't encourage Nav to break any law or regulation until the law and rules have changed. But now we're working on bombs to put in place a better code that's better for foster parents than what's real today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e590	I thank you for your answer. I feel a need to say that I am not standing on Stortinget's pulpit and encourage Nav to operate a violation of the rules. I'm actually standing here and encouraging the council to whisper Nav in the ear that there's a room for action, that they're going to use it, and that where you're going into a complaint handling where the room for action isn't used, it's the law for Nav to say that uff, it was a little silly, we're doing a change on that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e595	Yes, I think we can agree that we are using the space of action that is, and when we see that the law and regulation are against good work, it is of course our job to change it so that the agencies can do a good job towards the users who are dependent on help and support.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e600	Moving is often a bad relationship with foster homes, because many have had to move because you could not live at home or because the foster home has gone into disintegration, but we also know that unemployment requires many people to move – the so-called mobility requirement. Obviously, there's a difference between having to move. If you are alone and free and free and free without care, you are in a different situation than if you have obligations and people who depend on you. Since our proposal does not get a majority today, I wonder if the Council of State can still give a guarantee and assure foster parents that no one should have to leave if it goes beyond the important mission of foster parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e605	Here the same applies to foster parents as to biological parents, as I also said in my main response. There are exceptions to the mobility requirement today when social and weighty reasons suggest that no move should be made. In many ways, it may well be said that the exemption may even apply more frequently to foster parents, precisely because foster children may be in a particular situation. Many of them may have had many movements, may be vulnerable and need extra stability. I feel confident that the department uses good sense in these kinds of cases, that you use the exception that, after all, is there. It's as much for foster parents as for other parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e610	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e632	The President read out a slightly different interpellation than the one I delivered, because my interpellation was to the Prime Minister. The background for this is a previous interview – it was 13 June 2014 – where I took up the frightening outlook on the labour market at the time. It was before the great oil price fall, but the clouds threatened the labour market already at the time. At the time, the Prime Minister answered the interpellation. Yes, she even thanked me for raising an important debate at the time. Since that time the unemployment rate has increased, the employment rate is falling, and employment is actually falling. So anyway, the Prime Minister chooses to refuse to answer the question this time. It fits in with the image that the Prime Minister is pushing away from politically difficult issues and wants to be able to operate his marketing without having to be responsible for his political results. The reason why the interpellation is addressed to the Prime Minister is this time, as was the case last time, that if one is to have full employment as a general objective, all departments must have the overall objective of working in their fields. The Prime Minister agreed in 2014, but does not want to discuss it with the Stortinget now. We must then be able to take into account, once she has chosen to let the Minister of Labour answer, that the Minister of Labour is prepared to respond in all areas affecting the development of employment. Since the 2014 interpellation, the fear of increasing and high levels of unemployment has increased. No one has ever blamed the government for the oil price drop, which further contributed to the labour market challenges, but the government is responsible for meeting the challenges of active action. That is what distinguished Norway from the rest of Europe when the financial crisis hit in 2008 and 2009. At the time, we had a prime minister in Norway who went ahead and led in the fight against the challenges. All government councils were told to submit plans to meet the vacancy. Close cooperation was established with business partners in order to obtain good action. Consultations were held across the country to find answers to the needs of businesses. Yes, there were even meetings with representatives of the opposition in Stortinget to listen to advice on how we could jointly meet the challenges. This time the attitude was waiting-and-see, or, as the Prime Minister said, follow the situation closely. Cooperation with the parties is no longer as effective as under former governments with alternating composition. And instead of being the leading force in the fight against increased unemployment, Prime Minister Solberg has had to be pushed from chance to chance to take action. For the first time, we saw that the government proposed — and was adopted — to reduce the number of places of action, while at the same time notifying them of high levels of unemployment. For the first time, we experienced that the government tightened the law of the permit, while notifying them of increased leave. The Minister of Finance even said in Stortinget that it was important not to take early action. It had to go wrong! Many from the government have said that this time the crisis is different from the crisis in 2008 and 2009, and then we say: Yes, exactly. That is why we have also proposed measures to address this crisis with other measures. In order to meet short-term unemployment, efforts must be directed towards the sector(s) in which the economy is low. When oil companies tighten up their activity, it is less to do for the supplier industry. But then it is time to do some of the things that are being put at risk in times of high pressure. Therefore, we have proposed increased allocations to the Petroleum Authority, to ensure that it is not pinched on maintenance, but rather focused on maintenance at a time of low activity. That's why we have arranged to increase the activity by studying oil wells, which are nevertheless to be studied, and do so when there is no capacity available. That's how we can create activity for those who have little to do. Many of those who supply to the oil industry are affected by reduced activity. That is why we have, for example: proposed to invest more in elves, so that the small-scale shipyards, due to low activity in the oil sector, can use their capacity and develop their competence in other areas. This allows systematic counter-cyclical policies to meet the challenges and mitigate the impacts and help people and businesses through the low economic cycle. But the government has opposed it. The situation we have today is very serious. Unemployment has stabilised at a high level in the Norwegian context. Although the total number of unemployed fell marginally on the last survey of the Central Statistical Office, there are still 124 000 unemployed, and youth unemployment is high. But even more serious is the trend in the employment rate, which is reduced to 66.8 pst., the lowest in several decades. And worst of all: The number of employed in Norway is also falling according to the SSB figures in April this year. And the government's own figures, the 2016 national accounts, show that employment in the private sector is falling. I am afraid that this debate from the Council of State will also be met with the usual points of speech from the Right-wing PR department. It is claimed that although the SSB documents the opposite, it is now increasing employment. That we're dealing with black paint is words that go back – one of the fixed formulations. And that business needs now, it's not tax incentives, it's one of the talking points that are repeated. But the development of rhetoric does not help the situation; policies need to be developed. When Vice-Chancellor Jan Ludvig Andreassen of the Eika Group emphasizes as a comment on the development that «Norway has a problem», I hope we can get a less eloquent debate on the way forward. The billions of tax haven't given any dynamic power. There is once again evidence that there is no increase in employment but an increase in differences. But there are many political decisions in this house that affect the opportunities for increased employment in the future: The municipal economy is crucial for the ability of municipalities to invest and create activity, in addition to the well-being produced in the municipalities. Agriculture policy, which we have just discussed here in the United Kingdom — and fortunately the government suffered defeat — is, of course, crucial for agricultural activity throughout the country, but it is also crucial for thousands of employees in the processing industry, such as the processing industry. is fully dependent on import protection. Fisheries policy is crucial for managing or owning a few of our common resources, but provides a basis for value creation across the country. The call for tenders for major transport projects will determine whether it is possible for smaller Norwegian contractors to participate in the competition. The mineral wager to which the previous government provided may provide a basis for new value creation if it is recovered from the drawer. Travel life activities can generate growth in an important food industry throughout the country. Stronger efforts on green technology, as we propose in our budgets, are important for climate and the environment, but it can also bring new value creation. Education policy, with a common school for all, improvement of vocational training, more apprenticeships and, above all, opportunities for lifelong learning and updating, will determine whether we can reduce the number of people outside. Family policy is essential for people's ability to participate in the labour market. Labour market policy will determine whether we can stop the increase in the number of people outside. Today, when we have this debate, three years after the interpellation of the Prime Minister when he chose to respond, the results are discouraging and the challenges are greater than three years ago. Unemployment is higher, the employment rate is lower, employment is falling, more are under-employment, the number of young people under-employment increased by 37 pst. From 2013 to 2016, and as far as I have come with it, the most recent figures show that the increase is still this year, more are long-term unemployed, more depend on social assistance. That is why I invited the Prime Minister to a discussion on how to jointly and in all departments to find measures to reverse the negative development of the country, to re-enter the target of Europe's lowest unemployment and perhaps to gather some measures to achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e701	Let me start by thanking Andersen, the representative, in this interview, for addressing one of the government's most priority areas, namely to facilitate new growth and increased employment in Norway. The labour force is our most important resource, and we have to use it well. The main objective of the government is to have as much as possible a safe job to go to. Work gives substance to life, social community, income and security. The fact that many are at work is also a prerequisite for our public services and services. High employment is the very foundation of the welfare society. The employment rate increased in the high economic cycle up to 2008, but has fallen from 72pst. in 2008 to 67,3 pst. in 2016. The number of young people out of school and working increased sharply from 2008 to 2013. The growth has then slowed down, but the number outside has continued to increase. The demand for labour has developed slowly, first because of the international financial crisis, then because of the oil price drop and the large oil conversions. After the fall in oil prices, it has been important to avoid a high level of unemployment, as it did in the 1990s. That is why the government has pursued a strong economic policy, we have strengthened labour market policy, and unemployment is falling. Given the efforts made by the government in research and education, transport and infrastructure and tax relief, it is good to claim that this is marked by ‘wait-and-see’. Nor has it been the case that there have not been any more employed in recent years. There have been 139 000 more persons employed since 2008, and 43 000 more since 2013, but at the same time the population has grown more. High population growth due to high levels of labour migration and an increase in the number of refugees contribute to the fall in the proportion of employed persons. There has also been an increase in the age of the population, and it also reduces the total number of persons employed. Employment among young people has fallen, but at the same time more young people are under education during this government. Education is an investment for the future. In Norway, we have been used to low unemployment. We've also had a high real wage growth for a number of years. Among other things, we did. due to high oil prices and a favourable external trade trend. Such happy circumstances cannot be taken for granted in the future. The perspective communication raises a number of challenges for Norway in the coming years. One of the most important is that the population is getting older. This means that a smaller proportion of the population work, and expenditure on pensions and health and care services will increase. The fact that many people of working age are out of work reinforces the problems. This is a major, and common, challenge in Norwegian policy. The Communication of Perspectives indicates that sustainable development requires us to facilitate low unemployment and high employment. When life expectancy increases, the average age of retirement from work must increase. At the same time, more people have to find their place in the labour market. A workforce with the right skills and a tax and social security system that makes working profitable are key prerequisites for high employment. The government's policy therefore follows up the line of work by ensuring that there is always more to be served on the job than to receive a benefit from one of our income insurance schemes. Several proposals for changes to the AAP scheme to contribute to less than today's passive social benefits are now being addressed in the Stortinget. The government’s comprehensive review of living requirements for entitlement to benefits and the specific refugee schemes are also on the Stortinge Table. In the last four years, the government has pursued an active policy to facilitate new value creation, growth and jobs. High wealth growth requires an economic policy that facilitates innovation and further development. And we need, not least, more jobs in the private sector. The government’s work on reforms is part of an offensive strategy to secure Norway’s future. The tax reform, the municipal reform, the regional reform, the rail reform, the police reform and the establishment of New Veier AS are key examples. Key elements of our strategy to increase the ability to convert are lower taxes, better infrastructure and simplification of public regulation. It gives companies a good starting point for creating new values. Government's commitment to innovation, research and development will also in the long term contribute to increased profitability in enterprises, increased competitiveness in industry and increased value creation in the Norwegian economy. In order to address the consequences of the decline in oil-related activities, the government is stepping up its efforts rapidly to support employment and activity in the most vulnerable areas, at the latest in the 2017 government budget. The 2017 budget contributes to stimulating activity in the economy and, as in 2016, includes a targeted package of measures to combat unemployment, mainly in the South and West countries and in the most affected sectors. This is just some of the grips we've taken. Some of this will be stronger over time, such as tax relief for increased value creation, investment in research, development and education, and regulatory simplification. Others of the government’s actions work quickly, such as the South-West action packages and a reinforced effort for the unemployed. Now we see that the policy is producing results. The registered unemployment rate fell in 2017. In April, there were 7 000 fewer unemployed than at the same time last year, and in 17 of the country's counties, there is less total unemployment in the last year. Not only does the government expect the 2017 labour market to be better than in 2016. Nav's business survey 2017 of April shows that businesses are more optimistic this year than last year in terms of employment. This applies not least in the Western counties. The SSB and the Bank of Norway expect growth in the number of persons employed to rise this year. The government's offensive policy, not least its fiscal policy, discouraged the increase in unemployment more than it did when international economic and oil price falls hit Norway. The decline in the krona in recent years has led to new growth in competitive business. The social partners have taken responsibility and reached agreement on moderate settlement which helps to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian business and secure Norwegian jobs. The cooperation of the parties in the individual workplace is also very central to the transformation that a lot of our business life is in the middle of. This government's investment initiative for the future in, inter alia: education, research and transport, growth-enhancing tax incentives, and a series of measures that strengthen the working line, provide the basis for high employment and low unemployment in the future. Although it is now brightening up for the Norwegian economy and more people are coming to work, there is a major challenge ahead of us. We need to ensure that more people can take part in the growth of wealth and that more people contribute to financing benefits through their work. The decline in the employment rate over time is a common challenge – for authorities, for political parties and for social partners. Coming back to the high employment rate that we had will require more of us than before. The population is increasing and ageing, and the number of immigrants in need of increased access to Norwegian labour market is increasing. There are features in the Norwegian labour market that will require other measures and solutions than those we have implemented. We can't just do more of what we've done before. We will be able to achieve better results if cooperation with the social partners is actively geared towards new objectives. This is natural for the parties to be invited forward. Let me end with a summary: The main goal of the government is that as much as possible should have a safe job to go to. The government has followed this up with a wide range of concrete and powerful interventions in a number of policy areas – to curb the increase in unemployment and to facilitate a competitive and innovative business, a skilled workforce and high employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e739	Thanks for the response from the Council of State, which was so much feared and to a small extent an invitation to dialogue on the many policy areas that need to work together to achieve the goal of full employment. I am sure that more people will come up with examples of this in the course of the debate. Governments referred to the employment rate. She chooses a few special years and finds that this is something that is really a problem they've inherited from the previous government. Let me then just underline a fact: from the previous government in 2005 until it resigned in 2013, the employment rate in Norway increased, despite the financial crisis in that period. Governments say that more people are coming to work. I'm here with the printout of the statistics from the Statistical Central Bureau for April this year. I will be allowed to refer to three numbers: the labour force in Norway is reduced by 25 000 – that is, people stop looking for work. In the case of employed persons in Norway, we are minus 14,000 compared to one year earlier, i.e. employment is falling. However, although employment is falling — the number of people entering work every day in Norway — it appears that unemployment rates are being reduced because of a decrease in the labour force. The labour force is reduced by 25 000, employment is reduced by 14 000, thus reducing unemployment by 11 000. Then I almost have to ask: does the Council of State actually think that these are happy numbers, when several leading economists say that now we have major challenges in our society, which require a coordinated effort from all departments to get employment up again?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e748	I don't think any of us should be particularly happy that the employment rate is reduced. After all, there is no doubt that the employment rate has been reduced from 2008. Two thirds of the decline in employment was before 2013, i.e. before the fall in oil prices, the remainder afterwards. Much of the employment is due to immigration and an ageing population. We would like to discuss when the employment rate began to fall, i.e. In 2008, and when most of the case took place, namely before 2013, but the challenge is the same. The employment rate has fallen, and it is a major challenge, regardless of its reason and regardless of when it occurred. We now see — in addition to ageing population and immigration — that more young people are withdrawing from the labour market, among others. to take education. We're going to be glad, because we know that many of the young people who lost their jobs at the time of the downturn had not even finished high school. Several of them need education. As I said in my main post, the main task of the government is to secure jobs and create more jobs. I think we've been too oil addicts for a long time, we need more legs to stand on. It even said the perspective message to the previous government. However, too little has been done to convert Norway into a new era. That's what the government is now putting a lot of money into, among other things. through industry-oriented research and innovation, through knowledge and education, through infrastructure and the development of transport, and through an economic policy that businesses also call for. Now we see the results. We see that the outside cabinet has increased, but it has slowed down considerably compared to the previous one. We see that the time off is going down, and we're going to be happy for that. But we still have a job to do to get the employment rate up and unemployment down further. We now see good signs of light. Everyone who tries to predict a little bit in the glass sphere says the same thing. We see that the unemployment rate is falling, and that the companies report increased optimism. I feel confident that the policies we pursue and the measures taken will contribute to further reductions in unemployment and further job growth in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e761	In Norway, we have had slight differences between people. We have had small wage differences, good and redistributive welfare schemes and a tax system that has helped balance those who have the least, and those who have the most. It is not the result of chance, it is the result of political will and the choice of political solutions. Now the differences are increasing, not much, but enough that there's reason to be worried. Differences are increasing between people, differences are increasing between regions, and differences are undermining our social structures. This is mainly due to the fact that fewer are working and that more have received large tax returns. More people experience extraterrestrials and insecurity. In the interior, we've lived for a long time in what someone calls the oil shadow. We have poorly cut many indicators, such as lower employment demands, more on social security benefits and lower average levels of education. The same applies to income. At our national meeting four years ago, we decided to develop our own strategy for the country. We followed it up in the government by putting down an inland selection, a sample that the Solberg government chose to continue, after a long pause of thought and a little pussy on mandate and composition. Many wise people spent time and effort analyzing, discussing and finding solutions. The result was a report that gives good advice on what to do with more domestic development. But the report was, as you know, put in a drawer, and there it is. It is now said from the government that things are going well in the country, as opposed to the West. The crisis is just regional. Long-term mobility has been one of the government’s response strategies. People have to move in order to get a job – to the interior, where the time off is low. Unemployment in the home country is still low, but employment is falling. In Oppland, 94 753 were employed in 2013. At the turn of the year there were 93 131 – over 1,600 fewer in work in three years. The figures for Hedmark show the same trend. The share of work is low compared to the rest of the country. Business has challenges in making money and contributing to innovation. So it's not right, as the government says, that everything is going well in the country. We need a government that sees opportunities in Uppland. Unemployment is low when employment falls. The country has a lot of opportunities, but then we need drag help. We have world-class Raufoss environments, but they didn't come along when the government distributed new development funds through the GCE system. We have bio-environments in Hamar, which are also world-class, but we didn't get any support to establish centers there to contribute to development. We have a space industry and a research environment that the government planned to build up. Fortunately, the Storting turned around on it. When the government does not contribute directly by means of funds, it is the county that must contribute. However, cutting regional development funds reduces opportunities. What does the Council of State intend to do, and what measures does she want to take to facilitate, in order for the country to be recipients of those who have lost their jobs elsewhere in the country, when mobility is to be one of the strategies for action? We have received a revised national budget today. I am very aware that we will discuss this later, but I have to say that I am very surprised at the government's lack of action. The revised national budget says that we need 170.8 million. kr less because there is a ‘reduced need to finance the planned level of action’, as it says. I have to ask the Council of State: does this not mean that it has not been possible to implement the measures and appropriations made available by the Stortinget to compensate for unemployment? It says that they ‘received and made fewer reimbursement demands from the action organiser’, I do not expect that they have worked for free. With a powerful hub you should be able to use the funds for other things. If we look at the calculations made by the government to facilitate 500 new action sites now, there are 2 500 sites that were not used in 2016. It's quite serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e780	I was glad that the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, came with this interpellation. It's obviously an important topic. That is why the disappointment was very great when I heard his comments. The rhetoric is not new, despite changes in the labour market. Not a dime is changed, not a decimal is moved, not a dot is gone -- it's completely equal, no difference. Andersen did not go to his head when he was going to make this post. He walked into the drawer he had in the office, and then he rushed together some old posts he had kept. As usual when the Workers' Party is talking, they take up a lot of themes, without anyone going to the depths of any of them. I think that's how they think they win debates -- by being substanceless mitrals. Otherwise, I see that the Workers' Party has finally found out the AKU numbers from April. It was not a moment too early after they were bluffed when it came to the holiday film they sponsored on Facebook. The question to be asked when discussing this important issue is: When did the employment rate break? Yes, it came in 2008. That was in connection with the financial crisis. It may not be surprising in itself, but it means that every time the Workers' Party talks about how well they managed the financial crisis, we should take it with a pinch of salt. That means that every time the Workers' Party talks about how many more jobs were created under the red-green government, we have to take it with a little pinch of salt. And why? Yes, because it turned out that there was largely non-resident labour force. How long have we been talking about low employment rates among some groups in our society? I am talking about young people with low skills, some immigrant groups and people with disabilities. We've been talking about it for years. Actions have been taken, a lot of resources have been used, agreements have been made – we still see the same challenges. It's serious. That's why this government was just trying to do something about this, just to reverse this development – and you'll see what the government is doing. Take, for example: vocational training, how we now raise the professions, and how vocational training has almost become a non-debate because of the policies of the government. The apprenticeship grant is one example. It has been cancelled at NOK 20 000 per contract. And on the other hand, The fight against crime at work in order to attract more people to choose the professions: a strategy has been developed in cooperation with the social partners. It's important, absolutely! Cleaning up the Youth Guarantee: You remember the guarantee that was supposed to help young people out of work, but that turned out to be just a guarantee of a warranty breach. Let's clean that up now. We're setting up a real youth guarantee. Review of the Nav action system: There is quite a lot we could talk about here, but let me say it this way – we can call it a trust reform, where we have to rely on the professional assessments that can be made in Nav, and politicians have to rule and decide less. We are to avoid the queues – or remains, as it is called in the bureaucracy language – that were created during the implementation of the Nav reform, which meant that three Labour Ministers from the Workers' Party had to meet before the Control and Constitution Committee. It also looks at how we prioritise the best-functioning measures: wage subsidies – an action that everyone has agreed that more attention needs to be paid to. Yeah, now there's more to bet. Now more people are going on salary subsidies than they were before. And not to talk about a responsible economic policy, with lower taxes on work, lower taxes on jobs. I remind you that the option is a higher tax on this. You have to ask yourself, ‘If you are not willing to change policies and develop policies when society around you looks different, when the labour market is changing, what kind of alternative is you put up with in an election campaign? ’ The employment rate is an important challenge, and we will continue to solve it even after the autumn elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e809	Had it not been unparliamentary, I would have said that it is rare that I have heard a post in connection with an interpellation that is more full of flukes than the representative Dag Terje Andersen held here today. The representative said that it is the Right PR department that must have written the article to the Council of State. It will then be interesting to see if the remaining representatives from the Workers' Party come with a completed script or not. The Andersen installation and interpellation are characterized by a long time ago, and initially there is hardly a post; there is more than a collection of campaign rhetoric and speech points. Things are going well in Norway. Norway is a good country to live in, things go in the right direction in Norway. Yes, we have challenges, which we are addressing, and there are things that need to be improved, but the ten-minute interpellation effort can give you the impression that the Black Death has come back to Norway. Unemployment has now fallen five months in a row. It clearly shows that the policies of government and the majority of the population have actually worked. We have made sure to build and equip a business and a working life for the future, and we have ensured greater flexibility in business so that the needs of the individual enterprise and not least of the individual employee can be better met. We have a working party that wants to go back to the 1970s, where you think everyone is the same, and everyone has to fit into a box. We have a government that not only wants to address the acute situation of those who are now unemployed, but we also have a government that wants to secure all the jobs we have, and make sure that they are actually secured and can be developed further. That's why we have a government that has the bets of time on the road and that spends far more money on it than the Workers' Party has ever wanted. It is good for short-term unemployment, but it is not least good for us to create a more mobile labour market – it is easier to get away from work any longer. Similarly, when this government has pursued a health policy that has led to 80,000 fewer in health queues, I can say that more people can come back to work faster, rather than at home and wait for an operation. Differences have also been brought forward in this debate. Indifference can be a problem if it gets too big. That's why we have a government ready to raise the weakest, the most challenging. Based on the figures of the Statistical Centre, there has been no increase in poverty in Norway if we take away the large immigration we have had. In fact, the main factor of inequality in Norway is the Labour Party which is behind them when they want uncritical immigration to Norway, and when the Workers' Party believes that it is better for those with weak economies to increase taxes and charges dramatically in Norway. Persons with a strenuous economy will really mark both the tax increases and, in particular, the tax increases to the Workers' Party. We also know that the tax arrangements for the Workers' Party will put more jobs at risk. But it is obviously not so important for the Workers' Party, because the focus of that party and the representative Andersen is more to come with election campaign rhetoric. Unemployment is serious for individuals and for society. Yes, I take unemployment much more seriously than I take seriously the full text of the Labour Party's campaign script. The unemployed also deserve a policy that actually works. We have a government that has now conducted a policy for four years, and we see the results. Despite the greatest oil price drop of 30 years, we now see that unemployment falls in Norway, and then I find it a pity that the Workers' Party cannot enjoy it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e823	First, I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing this important issue. After all, the high unemployment rate in the South and West has been our biggest and most acute economic challenge during this major period. For individuals, unemployment means — or may mean — loss of quality of life because of the loss of the community. For families, it means uncertainty and a difficult everyday life, and for society, high unemployment means the loss of resources that could have been used to create values. The Christian People's Party has therefore followed the situation closely, and in several budget rounds we have contributed to a fiscal policy adapted to the recession. We have prioritised targeted responses to youth unemployment with a sharp increase in the apprenticeship grant, more action places and more places of study. Last year's Christian People's Party received a total of 400 million. extra for exceptional maintenance of construction and infrastructure in the municipalities of the South and West. It has meant the difference between leave and work for many in the region. The Christian People's Party has prioritised maintenance measures because it works fast and provides employment in the private sector and saves us for expenditure in the future. Now there are several positive signs in the Norwegian economy. The mainland economy has grown weak in 2016 and mainland investment shows growth. The floor may have been reached for the Norwegian economy. That's good. When the oil price has been so low for so long and the economic cycle of our trading partners has been weak, it is not only due to active countercyclical policies and targeted measures. A lot of the drag help has also come from our own currency. It has fallen in value, making traditional industry and travel more competitive internationally. The improvement in competitiveness has been maintained through moderate wage settlement. It shows the Norwegian model at its best. On the other hand, it is likely to take time for the economy to be freshly informed. It is worrying that total employment in the economy continues to fall. The proportion of persons employed in Norway in pre-age employment has fallen markedly since the financial crisis – from 72pst. in 2008 to 67,3 pst. in 2016, the lowest of 20 years. Half of the decline in employment is due to the ageing of the population and the growth of the immigrant population. Fewer home workers and fewer early pensioners and disabled people are only slightly up in a positive direction. The fall in employment cannot continue. Getting as much work as possible is essential for the individual’s quality of life and for Norwegian value creation and welfare in the long term. The Christian People's Party will protect central workers' rights and strengthen training and labour market measures so that everyone can be given opportunities in the face of globalisation and new technologies. We also need to ensure that more people can stay longer in work as their life expectancy increases. Norwegian training and wage subsidies must be given priority in order to get more non-Western immigrants to work. Vocational training must become less theoretical and more practical, so that fewer falls away. The apprenticeship grant should be increased to the same level as the support for a high school place. We need to ensure better consistency between education provision and the qualifications of business and working life demand, inter alia. by strengthening the real subjects. Last, but not least, we are dependent on creating a stronger entrepreneurial culture to ensure the establishment of new businesses in the future. Today, we have a low rate of establishment and a low proportion of fast-growing enterprises if one compares with the OECD and the EU. It has to be sniffed. Entrepreneurship training should be better integrated into school and studies. Universities and colleges should provide strong incentives for the commercialisation of research results and cooperation with industry. We must continue to invest in public seed funds for business in order to bring research results into the market. We need more active ownership with skills to develop new businesses. The company tax must be reduced in line with the tax settlement. The Christian People's Party will also reduce the taxes on wealth on working capital, i.e. shares and means of operation in the form of everything from industrial machinery to tractors and fishing boats. This tax affects companies that are in deficit and it may impede access to capital for small enterprises in the districts that cannot access an international capital market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e840	I want to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic. The debate will show two different realities. The Red-Greens want a new direction, greater safety in the labour market, and the Right and Advance Party believe that we have the right course. The representative Heggelund, and not least the representative Wiborg of the Progress Party, said quite clearly: things are going well in Norway. Norway is heading in the right direction. The basis for what we're going to talk about is a profitable business in a tough international competition. I want to link my article to three main challenges, three necessary headlines: Firstly, a strategic enterprise policy is needed, in order to develop more of our renewable natural resources, profitable natural resources for skilled young people, i.e. a green shift. Timotei, cod, spruce and foxpower are key words for resources that need to be processed through profitable framework conditions in Norway. Secondly, we must go from the free movement of labour across borders outside the Nordic region to regulated labour immigration. Finally, we need to strengthen the Working Environment Act so that the protection laws of the labour force can be streamlined. As far as industrial policy is concerned, we need a strategic enterprise policy. Norway is in a special situation. We've had an economy completely out of the ordinary due to oil and gas. It makes our challenges work less, but they're bigger than many like to believe when we look at our commodity-based economy as well as the high and ever-increasing level of debt of private households. We therefore have greater migration challenges than most European countries, and this again calls for greater political leadership. There is a need for interaction between private owners, trade unions and an active country to enable us to have profitability in a business that can meet challenges to come. We need to invest now – while we have profits from the oil industry – and build a bridge from the important basic industry further into mainland Norway’s industry. In this way, government efforts are needed not least by a strong state-owned green investment company that can promote the commercialisation of new technologies for the processing of our renewable natural resources. Furthermore, the EU enlargement to the east in 2004 and 2007 led in Norway, especially after the transitional arrangements, to an enormous supply of skilled workers who were willing to, and willing to, work far cheaper than what is needed for long-term workers living in Norway, at our high cost level. This is a huge problem. The elephant in the room is called the EEA Agreement. That elephant won't talk about the EEA trailers. You have to ignore it. It's sad. The impact of this policy leads to higher unemployment, increasing downward pressure on pay and working conditions in more and more sectors. And we're getting a seamly lower employment rate among the working-age population. The EEA Agreement must be replaced by a trade agreement and, within the current EEA Agreement, we must regulate labour immigration outside the Nordic region. We need to be required for permanent employment, Norwegian pay and working conditions and residence in Norway. We need to further strengthen the Working Environment Act, the law to ensure a well-organised working life. The centre party has been a rock for the 1977 Working Environment Act, where we were clear on the content of temporary employment. Therefore, we now need to define fixed and temporary employment in the Working Environment Act. We must prohibit employment contracts that have a fixed-term content without pay between assignments, and we need to repeal the Working Environment Act § 14-12, second paragraph, which provides a general opening for the use of manning companies regardless of whether there is temporary or permanent work carried out by workers from the manning companies. I want temporary workers to be temporary workers. The centre party only received support from SV in Stortinget’s vote on 5 April 2016. It is quite natural that the Progress Party, the Right and the Left are against such a tightening of the law. I hope, on closer thought, that the Workers' Party can also be with us at this important point. There are, therefore, two policy directions in this area – between a red-green direction, which gives security, and a blue direction, which continues that course more and more today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e863	I would like to thank you for raising an important debate. The Minister of Labour tried to confirm the case by saying that work and employment are one of the main priorities of the government. It shows a screaming need for a new majority. For what has this government done? Indeed, economic development has been cut short, regional development funds have been cut, which could provide jobs where people live, and employment. Increasing unemployment is encountered with hands in the pocket instead of providing an active enterprise policy where the unemployed face unresolved tasks. The Minister of Labour said in his speech that the government ensures Norwegian jobs, but it is completely impossible to understand how this happens. Is it through increased competition? More people are going to work, says the Minister of Labour. Then I wonder why in the world there is a policy that takes the jobs away from people. Because we see a centralization policy that moves people and functions, based on an idea that the largest is the best, regardless of whether we're talking about municipalities or offices, based on an idea that science and proximity are detached from each other, and that it's better that the fishing office lies wall-to-wall with university than at the quaikant, near the sea and struck, based on an idea that employees in the Coastal Radio don't need to know the waters to be served. There's little use in decorating jobs that move out of Oslo, when the multiplicity is moved from districts to the capital. While coastal communities are exposed to the resource, the number of employees in the Directorates is increasing. The government's employment strategy is far too far-reaching – it's about red tape. It won't last. It doesn't last if work for everyone is a goal. It does not last when the youth is out of work, without action and without follow-up. I have met young people who have been waiting for follow-up almost as long as this government has been sitting. The differences are increasing, and it's serious. The big money goes to those who have the most, and not to the big tasks, while ordinary people have to carry the cut and the insecurity through a working life where permanent work is increasingly removed for many because of temporary employment, because of contracts that do not say anything about how much position you have, or what kind of salary you should have, because of multiple callers and because of the growth of the recruitment industry. We have a government that doesn't seem to understand the problem, that doesn't understand how demanding and serious it is, and what unpredictable life such a working life actually gives. The representative of the Party of Advancement spoke of lifting the weak. Then I miss the good example. Did you promise the weak when you cut off the child supplement for the poorest, or was it when you removed the holiday pay for the unemployed? How in the world does this government promise the weakest? On the contrary, the strong, those who are basically able to stand on their own, are weakened by today's government, and this is done through a brutal competition policy, such as: when they chose to tender all the cleaning in the defence. I have met several of them, including in the garrison of South Varanger, GSV, where I met well-adult women with tears in their eyes who did not know what to bring tomorrow, who had given their best years and their best health to provide clean floors and secure the country's operational service. Thanks from this government are competition. Thanks are the loss of pension because there is some money to save on postponing the job. Privatisation is pure ideology, because when government employees do a job, it's a clean expense line, while when private employees do the same, for less pay, for less retirement, for worse employment, yes, then it's value creation. Employment is not carried out by centralisation. If the differences are to be reduced, the big money has to be spent on the big tasks, and a redistribution policy is needed, not a policy for increasing differences where those with the least get the least.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e880	Very important challenges are addressed in this debate. The unemployment we see is one of the greatest challenges we have as a society. We're not paid unemployment, the individual is not paid unemployment, we're all losing on unemployment. It is our common task to facilitate that we can have low unemployment and high employment. It should be a government's top priority and the greatest task to ensure that unemployment does not get caught up. As pointed out in the debate, not one State Council alone should focus on unemployment and employment. If employment is high and unemployment is low, a government must have a common focus. Then the Prime Minister’s response to the challenge of high unemployment helps little when she answers that they should follow closely. There is a need for stronger lye than just ‘to follow’. We actually need a government that's concerned about the situation and that settles down to do something about the situation. Today’s government has shown an attitude of ‘wait and see’, and they are to ‘follow closely’ – and the kind of expression we can call ‘flakes’. It won't last. There's been a big tax cut for Norway's richest – 25 billion. kr. This would be so-called growth-promoting tax cuts, tax cuts that would provide more jobs. This has not been shown to keep going. Even the Ministry of Finance cannot indicate or confirm that these tax cuts have significantly increased the number of jobs in the country around it. In Eastfold, according to the last Nav figures, there is a registered unemployment rate of 4,405 completely unemployed. 1 302 of these are young people under 30 years of age. It's a small disaster that society is going to notify all these young people in Eastfold that we don't need them. It's not a good start. It is by no means a good start to tell young people who are ready for work, ready to contribute, pay taxes, take care of themselves, that we don't need them. It's unforgivable. It can't be like that. We can't accept that. Eastfold has to get up in the next few years to stand around 6,000 jobs if we're to keep pace. It's a challenge. Today's government doesn't have enough pressure on this. I miss the whole effort on this. After all, we must make sure that today’s young people in Eastfold – and, to some extent, in the rest of the country – believe in the future. We must jointly ensure that they can actually benefit in society – because they want to, and because it is in the interest of all of us. But then the focus must be on creating work – not on providing large tax cuts that do not contribute to creating these jobs. For Eastfold, the Right and Advance Party charging policies have removed more jobs than it has created. The business community in Eastfold, together with the employees, is ready to work hard to create more jobs, as the NHO Østfold Annual Conference made clear, and something LO in the Eastfold County Conference also made clear. They want to create more jobs. But then the overall policy must ensure that it is put in place and that today's government fails.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e895	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising an important topic. As the Council of State said in its statement, it is to facilitate new growth, increase employment and create new jobs, the highest priority task for this government. When the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, claims that the government has been uninitiative and has had a waiting-and-see attitude to the challenges of working life, it is both false and misleading. From the day one, the government has been busy getting to a development that doesn't make our economy so dependent on oil. The new jobs and industries to raise Norway in the future must come in the private sector and compete and create values in a low-emission future. That is why this government has invested a lot in research and innovation. New climate technologies will enable us to develop new green products and services, which help reduce emissions and create new safe jobs. Very exciting is happening in this area now. The Labour Party should rather take self-criticism at how difficult the research had the eight years they crashed. The current Minister of Knowledge, Djupedal, said, "There's been a break in the research." – What is the future trend? As explained by the Council of State, the government has pursued a strong policy to combat unemployment and increase employment. Economic growth is now on its way up, and optimism is back. But it seems that the Workers' Party is not able to enjoy this. Everywhere they try to blacken the labour market situation. Now that's the employment rate they're talking about -- not the unemployment rates. Is it because the government's policy is working and the unemployment is going down? Last Saturday, Jonas Gahr Støre had a chronicle in Today’s Business with the title ‘An Uncomfortable Truth’, where he focuses only on the falling trend in the employment share, not on the joy of falling unemployment rates. It is true that the proportion of people working has fallen since 2008. Everyone agrees that this is a worrying trend. Half of the decline is due, as many have said here, to increased immigration, increased movements and more elderly people. However, what the Labour Party fails to say is that two thirds of the decline in the employment share in the period 2008–2013 actually occurred on the Labour Party watch. The proportion of young people outside school and working life also increased sharply between 2008 and 2013. The growth has stabilised afterwards and has slowed up, but it is still high. There's an increase in the number that's out of work, and we all have a responsibility to do something about it. The economists say that unemployment is a much better measure of policy because you compare apples with apples. It gets confusing for people when you suddenly start using new measurement concepts – as an ‘employment rate’. I think we're going to start talking about leave numbers and how we can get the leave down further. That's 15 billion. kr in increased taxes, as the Workers' Party adds, a bad tool for creating new jobs. The government is looking at new solutions that we know work, and I refer to training measures that fill the skills of those who have low skills and are out of work, and the obligation of activity of social welfare recipients who have health to work. Temporary employment has also proved to be effective by giving more people the opportunity to work. Wages and salaries subsidies are mentioned here, and not least to have this guarantee for young people under the age of 30, to which this government has also contributed. Government policies deliver results. The high unemployment rates are on the way down. We're doing well, but of course we're not on target. This perspective message points out, we have a major common challenge in facilitating sustainable development with low unemployment and high levels of employment. We must then pursue a policy that will take Norway in the future – not have old solutions that will put us in reverse.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e923	Given that everyone agrees that this is an important topic, I think that the position from the right that we see in the hall today is very helpful. Representatives Heggelund and Wiborg repeat the old rebuttal that now everything is going so much better, and now we have to take it easy and stop criticizing. It is true that the unemployment rate is now declining marginally – it has been referred to in the last five months. In the same period, we've also seen that the oil price has risen. We know that very much of the competitiveness we've seen in parts of the industry is due to currency conditions. That's something we need to bring with us. We are far from the danger zone in terms of the setback in competitiveness, and therefore also in terms of the risk that once again unemployment can increase strongly in industry. We're in a situation where the time off breaks down to a high level. It's a geographical distinction, and it's a professional distinction of the vacancy. Then, in my view, it would be pointless to refer to the kind of measures that are known as growth-promoting tax reliefs. The only growth we've seen as a result of these tax cuts has been growth in the inequalities in Norway. They do not have a measurable impact on employment or industry. An absence that bites itself is bad especially for those who go out, their families and communities around. But for society as a whole, this is also bad. It is dangerous for future competitiveness, especially when high unemployment is combined with right-hand labour market policies, which are about weakening workers' rights, which are about making jobs more unsafe, not safe jobs, as the Minister of Labour says is a goal. Because when you change the Working Environment Act so that you get an increase in the number of temporary jobs, it doesn't become safer jobs, it becomes unsafe jobs. There will be a bit of uncertainty that will also have long-term effects. Let me do one example, which I've used many times because it's close to me. In 1992, I was an unemployed carpenter throughout the year. I was one of those who went free through the dark period of the 1990s. What we saw after we got a recovery and the solidarity alternative started to work was that the threat that the workers got when they started was that either you accept worse conditions, or you don't get a job. That's what we were met with when we were going to try to get back to work. The result in the construction industry has been that it has been difficult to recruit people. Unskilled labour has had to be used. What we see is that the construction industry in Norway is a place where productivity development has been particularly summer in the last 20 years. This is the legacy of a rapprochement policy led by the industry itself in the 1990s, and which, in the situation we are in now, this government opens up to be conducted at the general level. Look at the petroleum sector, where we have lost both capacity and competence in this industry because the government has not taken any action to keep up the activity, as the representative Andersen pointed out, in order to do the tasks that have been exposed through times of economic upturn. It gives us concern now when we get a little boost in some contracts that come at the same time – to my home country and on Stord: Do we have capacity? Do we have competence in this? How are we going to solve this? It is solved by ad hoc solutions that do not provide any long-term reinforcement of competitiveness but, on the contrary, undermine what has been achieved through conscious and party-driven efforts to strengthen competitiveness. We see the same thing on the maritime offshore side. We'll see the same thing on the maintenance page. There's nothing done. The Government does not take any initiative in this respect. What's happening now is that we're undermining our competitive power for the future – against what's in the rhetoric from the right. That's why a new government is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e938	Just a little comment to Erlend Wiborg, like at the very beginning. I don't have a written script, but a lot of little patches, and I hope I can keep track of them, so there's going to be a thread in what I'm saying. I want to start where the interpellant started, that this was an interpellation addressed to the Prime Minister, precisely because the questions we are discussing here today are about the responsibilities of many departments, and it's about the responsibilities of those departments in the context, so that one can use the resources in the direction that gives the best results. The Prime Minister has chosen not to come to the Stortinget and answer. She chose instead a chronicle in the VG today, and we can read it, and have fun with it. The Prime Minister is pleased that the government's policy is producing results, and that one is doing very well. I'd rather say that it's a little bit different to the eyes that look, because instead of 25 billion. kr in tax cut – and that’s not a one-off sum in tax cut, it’s 25 billion. kr every year – it could be valuable billions to create new jobs and combat poverty. Instead, you choose to give e.g. Norway's 50 richest in average over 20 million. kr each in a tax cut, and then one in a way subverts the fact and says rather that the tax relief benefits all layers of the population. Right up there, I don't think there's so many. But to stick to the so-called dynamic tax policy: there are many people who have asked the government to document their claims that tax cuts to the richest are increasing growth. The answer has not come, rather on the contrary. Prime Minister Erna Solberg stated – also in the VG – in February this year: ‘It is difficult to measure in the short term how much we have grown on it. It takes years for us to see this in research. I don't have a number now on how long it takes before we see evidence of it. We have also not started any research in this field." But the truth is that we know that the so-called dynamic tax policy doesn't work, it hasn't worked anywhere. Right Theories have been tested in quite a number of countries, and in the United States, tax cuts are one of the most important things for the Right Sister Party, the Republican Party. And there's actually Congress, the investigating office there, looking at the relationship between economic growth and tax cuts to the richest in the entire period from 1945 to 2012. The conclusion was crystal clear, that the tax reduction for those with the highest income does not seem to have any connection with investment and productivity growth. It doesn't seem to have any effect on the size of the economic cake. Or you can go to the Statistical Central Bureau and listen to our own experts, who say the same thing, that if you're going to use tax cuts to create jobs, you should rather look at the possibilities of using public funds either to buy goods and services or to use them directly into employment, because you do the latter, you get 16 times as many jobs as you can expect when you use tax cuts as a method. This was said by the Statistical Central Bureau during the financial crisis in 2008, and it has been repeated quite recently. I then registered that the majority parties, or at least the government parties, chose to label the SSB's experts as someone who was bought and paid by the Workers' Party, but that was not the case. They had come up with these numbers on their own. There are many things that could have been taken up. What may be an important point to include in the final analysis is that the proportion of long-term unemployed is soon to be one third of the unemployed. Erna Solberg today says there will be 500 new action sites. It doesn't amount to much for those who are now losing their daily allowance. In the last half minute, I want to pick up the thread from the Questionnaire yesterday, because there I got some strange answers from the Council of State, which is present to respond to the interpellation here today. When I showed that the tax fixation is going to continue if the Right Party and the Progress Party continue against assumption in government, the Council of State said that ‘large parts of that tax fixation are the Workers' Party itself, through the tax settlement and other matters’. It might have been interesting if the Council of State in its last post could elaborate that statement a little bit more, because that we didn't realize very much of. We have a completely different policy from what the government stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e960	First, I have to disappoint both the position and the referee that I have not completed a written post, because it is actually that while I have been sitting here, I have also looked at the revised budget, which has been presented today, because I expected the solutions to be there. But it doesn't seem like they do. Yes, measures are being put in place, but as the post stated, it does not seem that you have taken seriously the high unemployment rate in this country. Then it becomes a bit striking that you should stand on this pulpit and try cheap political rhetoric and try to add the Workers' Party's position that we don't have. Just to be quite clear: for every unemployed person who comes to work, I think the Workers' Party is more happy than anyone else. So there's no doubt about it. You just have to admit that employment is going down. In fact, it is also in the document that has been presented today. The government also acknowledges it, because if I read correctly, it looks like they're also adjusting in revised terms to the fact that there's lower employment. So it's a recognition from the government, and I also think that the big business representatives should take over. So to the interpellant, Dag Terje Andersen: This is an important point that is being taken up, and an important matter. And to those who think it's an old post that's been picked up -- yeah, it might have been, because it hasn't gotten any better in the last two or three years, so the same points could have been said so far two or three years ago, but they do apply today more than ever. Is unemployment on the way down? Yeah, let's hope so. But if we look at the unemployment rate among young people, the figures show something else. They actually show that more people have to agree to take more education than they might want, because they don't get a job, or leave it to register with it. So that's all reason to think that those numbers are not correct. I have to say that it upset me this morning when I was on the bath and heard the Political Quarter, because our finance minister said that she was happy that the unemployment among young people was unchanged. Is there anything to rejoice about the fact that 70,000 young people under the age of 30 don't have a job to go to? It's not much to enjoy. It's better to take it seriously and try to do something about it. It is regrettable that the government does not take this matter more seriously than they limit it to one minister who has to stand and defend the government. The point of this interpolation was actually to have a width: what can we do together to increase employment? Because it's incredibly important that we look at it. We are now in the process of implementing a national transport plan – a major effort in the years to come, we agree on that, but it is important that we also focus on employment there. During the hearing, it became clear that there was a great deal of concern about what is going on in the NTP contract strategy. The basic document presented by the trade unions a year ago made it clear that tasks had to be triggered and facilitated by both small and large players in order to ensure good competition. But in the big message that came to pass, this is unless, unfortunately, contracts are not mentioned to a significant extent. Let's hope it's just a forgetfulness that there's nothing said about it. There is no doubt that the Minister of Industry has expressed the importance of facilitating the participation of smaller suppliers in these competitions. At the same hearing, the Entrepreneur’s Association of Construction and Construction also showed how important it was to facilitate Norwegian entrepreneurs, because it is not least about jobs. They had a table showing that when you compare Norwegian and foreign entrepreneurs, there are big differences. The value of an investment of 1 billion. kr is, if you get a Norwegian entrepreneur, actually 740 million. NOK 232 million. kr is taxed, and you get an employment of 860 annual works. If it becomes a foreign player, the surveys show that the value of Norway is halved: 360 million. NOK and only 421 annual work. So here it's important to think widely when you think about employment and when it comes to grips, so you get Norwegian players on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e975	First, thank you to the interpellant for putting our main national case on the agenda. In the Workers' Party we say that everyone is going. We are a party with ambitions on behalf of workers in order to strengthen the power and influence of trade unions, and in terms of working conditions and safety. The working party is at the forefront in ensuring the safety of work for all. This government has built up the power and influence of trade unions and has not had political ambitions to secure work for all. It is a real political choice. Where the Workers' Party says that everyone is going along, we see that this government deprioritises those groups that need the most action and return to work. In Agder, long-term unemployment increases, we have a large share of reduced working capacity, and many women are out of work or have part-time jobs. The message of the right-wing Party government to these has been: move! It's not a crisis all over the country. In criminal matters, the guarantee of return has been removed. Where the Workers' Party had ambitions to move Nav staff into prison, this government's approach is to move Nav staff out of prison. Rehabilitation in prisons has become worse. 242 zones in the Netherlands, with no possibility of qualifying schooling or work. Women in prison receive systematically poorer job-qualifying measures. The right-wing Party government presented in spring an escalation plan against violence and assault. It did not respond to vulnerable groups, such as the elderly, mentally retarded and women who break out of violent conditions. Women who have taken it sometimes dangerous and often dramatic steps it is to break out of a violent relationship, have low work participation. Research, carried out by Kjersti Alsaker in 2014, shows that only 45 pst. I was working, and half had experienced being refused to go to work or apply for jobs. Ensuring economic independence for women is important. Every adult person is himself responsible for his or her living. The difficult starting point for these women leads many to choose to move back. Creating schemes that allow them to get housing, an alternative social network and economic independence is, in my view, an important political task. It was strange, therefore, that the plan of escalation against violence and abuse did not contain measures to ensure that these women were able to live and work. I would like to ask the Council of State to say something about the reason why this is not part of a plan that should concern this group of people, which is subjected to the most serious violence that exists, namely those who are unsafe in their own home for their closest ones. The Crisis Centre Act obliges municipalities to provide a crisis centre offer. The offer will also provide for those who have broken out of a violent life, assistance for establishment – the phase that will be fixed for the new life – and this is where the lack of assistance to get into work comes in. Because today, those who break out and who do not have a job do not receive automatic priority and extra help from Nav, although we know that the consequences of not getting out of work quickly are serious. As I mentioned earlier, research done by Kjersti Alsaker in 2014 shows that having a violent partner has a strong influence on the job situation, and research illustrates the need for measures that help those who want to break out of violence but who do not have a job, and who therefore cannot afford to leave a violent partner. There needs to be a much more offensive attitude from the government than what we see today. I would also like to ask what concrete plans the government itself has to help those who are subjected to violence and who need a job in order to be financially independent and move on in their lives. A little bit to the debate: 'Black paint' is what the government parties call the mention of this worrying situation. It appears that they are more concerned with the explanation of reasons and opinions from 2006–08 than with describing the instruments that they themselves believe work. The fact that the crack came in 2008 is of little importance. The important thing is what measures were put in place to prevent the crack from having the serious consequences that we see today. At that time, the Labour Party had other political instruments than this government has had, and we see that there is a difference in unemployment. Finally, I have to make a little guess: I'm not going to be disrespectful, but when it's about the completed script, I have a feeling that I've heard Wiborg's and Heggelund's mention of completed script quite many times from this pulpit. But I imagine that after a long growing-up period it is probably good jobs to get in the literature reviewer industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e1003	Thank you for a good and broad debate. What is the main point – despite the fact that it is the day the revised budget is presented and many are busy with other things – is that we are just told that there are many sectors that affect the overall development of employment in Norway. To some people’s sluggish comments – unfortunately, I have even heard the Prime Minister say in the past that employment is something we are concerned about when there are elections – it’s just to remember that the starting point for this debate is an interpellant debate in 2014, which was not an election year, and then it was a follow-up to our alternative budget for 2014, which we discussed in the autumn of 2013. This is a question that the Working Party is constantly concerned about. I do not overlook the fact that the Prime Minister refuses to participate in a debate that follows up her own previous debate on the same matter, may have something to do with the fact that it is election year. I think that's closer to the truth. It's a matter of direction, and part of the Right's communication strategy is about to tone down the differences where they know that the differences are big. When the government says we're on the right track, let's make it clear: No, we think we're on the wrong path. In this question we want a different course. In 2013, when the government took over, Norway was in third place in the OECD survey of employment rates in the population. Now we're down in the ninth place, and we think that's the wrong way. In fact, only in Greece and Spain has the employment rate increased faster than in Norway. Among the unemployment data: The decrease of the labour force by 25 000 and employment in the last year, according to the SSB, which is government statistics, has decreased by 14 000 from April 2016 to April 2017, which means that the unemployment rate has fallen by 11,000. But I wonder if the Council of State thinks it's the right way when we look at the reason for that number. Experience has established and demonstrated that the large tax reliefs granted to the richest do not provide more employment. No, employment in Norway is falling, but there are greater differences. It is true, as the Prime Minister writes in the VG today, that the policy is working. But it works in a different direction than we want. I hope the Council of State will comment on the tax question. Moreover, my conclusion is that we have invited the government to participate in a discussion about taking the spoon in another hand. I note that for the autumn we must make sure that the event is in the hands of someone else if we are to reverse the development.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e1017	I would first of all like to thank you for an inter-pelling debate with great commitment and clear political dividing lines. There are some articles that I would like to comment on. I would like to talk about the elephant in the room, the EEA Agreement. There is no doubt that the EEA Agreement, including its shortcomings and weaknesses, has been a great strength and a great advantage for Norway, not least in view of the debate we now have, namely on jobs and employment. This agreement ensures just access to the main market for Norwegian enterprises, and I think it is – I guess not to say ‘maybe naive’ from this pulpit – difficult to imagine getting another agreement that could ensure Norwegian jobs in a better way than the EEA Agreement. We agree that the country must use its resources. This also applies to the labour force. More must be at work. The alternative will be tax increases and welfare cuts, and I don't think any of us really want that. The government knows that new economic growth and new jobs do not come of their own. The new jobs must come from a profitable private business. When the oil price fell, the government realized that this was not a temporary setback, but would require major structural changes in the Norwegian economy. New jobs need to be created in industries other than the oil sector, and jobs in the private sector are now also being created. We have arranged for Norwegian companies to have the best possible framework conditions to grow and grow. They are calling for tax relief, competence and investment in infrastructure, and that is what the Norwegian company receives from this government. We have submitted an industrial report – the first in 25 years – that has received good reception far into the ranks of the trade union movement. We have presented a travel report, a sea strategy and a maritime strategy, precisely because we have an active industrial policy. We all agree that the employment rate is too low. As I said in my main post: Two thirds of it fell before the oil price fall, the rest afterwards – but it doesn't do anything better. The case is too big, and it's a common problem to be able to solve it. I'm even most concerned about the alienation of young people. It also escalated from 2008 to 2013. It has continued to increase, but not as much as before, and there is a background for the government to put forward more measures to strengthen young people’s opportunities in the labour market – through initiatives in Nav, but not least in the field of the Minister of Knowledge. To the representative of Bergstø, one should almost think that it was the previous government that moved state jobs out of Oslo. It wasn't; it's this government that does it, just to strengthen the districts and regions outside Oslo. Then we have to make sure that the state workplaces and the new offices also have the skills and resources to do their tasks in a good way. I want to thank you for the debate – I think it has been interesting, I think it has been useful. We should regularly debate precisely these kinds of questions in this Chamber, because it is so important for both the people living in this country and society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e1034	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over. Before we go to voting, state councilman Anniken Hauglie will convey eight royal propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e1062	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's – the proposals No 1-3 by Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to come back to the Storting as soon as possible with proposals for the necessary changes to ensure that foster parents do not receive social security benefits on the basis of the foster home allowance if they become ill, ill, ill, long-term or unemployed.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to follow up the recommendations of Bufdir in the report Fosterhjem – delopdrag C of 2015.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the exemption of foster parents from the requirement to move as a condition for being regarded as a true job seeker and for receiving a daily allowance, which must be considered as incompatible with the assumption of the place of children in the foster home.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e1136	There is no voting theme in case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-11.ana.ud108e1201	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
