ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e80	Honourable co-representatives! Former coroner Karin Cecilie Kullmann Five passed away on 19 February, at the age of 65. Kullmann Five, of all Norway known as Kaci, was elected to the Stortinget from Akershus from 1981 to 1997 and Minister for Trade and Shipping from the Syse Government from 1989 to 1990. As a proxy, she was a member of the Finance Committee for the first period, the next three of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Kaci had a number of central positions in the Right, from she became active in the Young Right around 1970, until she joined the Party in 1994. She began her political career in Bærum, among others. as a member of the local government from 1975 to 1981. She had her national political breakthrough as a 26-year-old, when she represented her party together with Erling Norvik in the NRK's traditional party leader challenge before the 1977 Grand Prix. Kaci became the first female leader of the Young Right at the end of the 1970s. She was a pioneer in many ways. As the Young Right Leader, she made a strong contribution to putting environmental protection, development policy and equality on the political agenda, both in her own party and in society. She became the Right's first female leader, first as the working leader in 1988 and then as the elected leader from 1991 to 1994. Kaci was an enthusiast, with great energy. She was knowledgeable, with great care for others, a person with a clear head, a large, warm heart, and an impressive working capacity. While Kaci was the first female right-leader, she represented a new generation. Through her efforts and actions in politics, she went up a path for many who have come after her. In all its works, Kaci was characterized by factuality, personal kindness and care for others, qualities that contributed to her having many friends across party boundaries. After she left politics, Kaci had several key roles in business and society. For a number of years, she was the head of the SOS Children's Town Council. Since 2003 she has been a member of the Norwegian Nobel Committee and from 2015 the chair of the Nobel Committee. Here again, Kaci was given jobs for peace, democracy and human rights, which she was passionate about throughout her socially active life. We remember a strong and warm community builder.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e103	Representatives Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Hans Olav Syversen, Ingvild Kjerkol, Karianne O. Heavy and Svein Roald Hansen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Tove-Lise Torve For Northern Ireland: Tone-Helen Toften From the Workers' Group there is an application for the extension, under the leave of the representative Eva Kristin Hansen, of the convening of other alternates for the South-Trøndelag County, Gunn Elin Flakne. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Gunn Elin Flakne is present and will take the seat. Two permit applications are available: by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on the leave of the representative of Mr Inbjørg Amanda Vogskesen on 15 and 16 May to attend the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Helsinki from the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative of Ingrid Heggø from 15 May until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For East Agder County: Lene Langemyr For Sogn and Fjordane County: Tor Bremer
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e183	Tor Bremer is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e190	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Council this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Øyvind Halleraker. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker is considered unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e225	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e234	As the President said, the Committee has examined the two drafts of representatives together. In the examination of the national health and hospital plan, the Stortinget concluded that there should be a decentralised hospital structure to ensure an equivalent health care for the population. Geography, housing patterns, distance between hospitals, weather conditions and recruitment shall be given great importance in the design of the future hospital. The majority asked the government to ensure that hospitals with emergency surgery should continue to have it when patient care requires it and the quality and patient safety are taken care of. The majority of the population was aware that hospitals are in continuous development as a result of medical-technological development and changes in communication and travel patterns. It's the patient's best, regardless of place of residence, disease, injury and age, which is the most important thing about how we organize the hospitals. The size of the budget conferred on the government a special responsibility for actively following up health businesses in the course of their further work. Transparency and thorough analysis were required and all real alternatives discussed, so that the decisions could be justified. It was basically six hospitals that had to perform the emergency functions. It was Flekkefjord, Stord, Volda, Namsos, Lofoten and Narvik – plus Odda, who was described as being in a special position because of geography, weather conditions and long distance to the nearest major hospital. At the business meeting on 24 April, the emergency function was clarified for all, with the exception of Odda. In the work of the Committee, all parties, with one exception, have contributed constructively to the best possible solution for Odda. Odda shall be an emergency hospital with a standby level similar to today, on a daily basis, with surgeons physically present in Odda, and competent measures and regular training shall be implemented in order to enable the hospital to handle situations of acutely seriously ill and injured patients, also known as trauma patients. Never has the population of Odda Hospital had greater predictability of preparedness and security. It is broad both political and professional anchoring, at the very top of the department. The Professional Environment of Odda Hospital will, in cooperation with Health Fonna and Health Vest, develop the specific development plans. There has been a strong local involvement in all seven hospitals. The Committee has received 21 consultation sessions, all of which have been the basis for the work on the two proposals we have now considered. But what matters most is the lack of trust between small and large hospitals. The Committee points out that the management model for hospitals imposes high management requirements in order to manage continuous migration as a result of the development of new treatment options and requirements to ensure equivalent health care for the population throughout the country. This requires, inter alia: good division of work between hospitals. In the examination of the national health and hospital plan, it was also decided that local management should be the general rule and part of the leadership group of the health business. Real management and responsibilities can be exercised in a good way, for the benefit of patients, employees and undertakings as a whole. The local manager should also have a title that gives authority both externally and internally. Voss Hospital, responsible for approx. 30 000 inhabitants, have had a hospital director for many years, while we hear that elsewhere operate with titles as manager and unit manager. It should be cleaned up. Flekkefjord has recently signed an agreement. In the case of Narvik, which is the largest of the three hospitals we have now treated, the majority points out that the proposed changes should not weaken the offer to patients in the reception area and specifies that available gastro-surgical competence should be available if it is best for the patient. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that all three hospitals mentioned in the case – Narvik, Flekkefjord and Odda – will have politicians who will closely follow up on the further work of concreteising preparedness, developing other treatment services – which may be the largest volume in local hospitals – and good recruitment plans, which ensure stability and quality. I would like to thank the Committee on Construction and the Minister for Health for their cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e262	Today we are discussing Document 8 proposals on hospital services at Odda, Narvik and Flekkefjord hospitals, and I am pleased that we can today say that there will be peace around the hospitals. The decision now taken provides for good recruitment and, in particular, for the stability of hospitals. Because there has been a lot of unrest around the hospitals and a lot of commitment, and there have been discussions, not least related to the acute surgery offers. This has created uncertainty. When examining the national health and hospital plan, the Committee discussed whether a hospital offer could be too small and too vulnerable and whether the same quality requirements should be imposed on all hospitals. The ongoing specialisation imposes greater environmental requirements and requires them to be able to handle complex situations. Therefore, Stortinget concluded that hospitals should be divided into regional hospitals, large emergency hospitals, emergency hospitals and hospitals without emergency facilities, but hospitals should cooperate more and not compete with each other. The majority of the Stortinget specified what an emergency hospital should contain, and decided that hospitals currently offering emergency surgery should continue to do so when the patient so requires. Geography, housing patterns, weather conditions and distance between hospitals must be included in the assessments of the maintenance of hospital services. All hospitals were to develop development plans, and Stortinget provided guidance on how these were to be developed. The right is concerned that good processes in these development plans create security and predictability, and that is important for calming down. It is understandable that changes create uncertainty, but the Stortinget decided in the National Health and Hospital Plan that no hospital should be closed as a result of the plan. We're going to have a decentralised hospital structure in the country, and the majority stressed the need to develop all the hospitals and also a good organisation of emergency preparedness. In the wake of the Minister of Health and Care’s conclusion at the Enterprise Meeting on 24 April, there has been a need to clarify how the Odda Hospital offer can ensure closeness to hospital services and security for the population. I'm glad the minister confirms that Odda Hospital is still going to be an emergency hospital. It shall not be reduced but strengthened in many areas. Emergency preparedness with 24-hour outpatient clinics will be tailored to local needs, including: as a result of increasing tourism both summer and winter. Odd hospitals have special challenges because of them. its geographical location and risk of closed roads. The Council of State says that the overall preparedness of the population of Odda Hospital should be at the same level and provide equivalent security as today. The hospital shall handle situations of acute and serious illness or injury to patients and be able to stabilise for further transport. An emergency plan shall be drawn up with measures to address different scenarios, including closed road situations, and the emergency plan shall be drawn up in cooperation with the Odda hospital staff and with the municipality and other actors. In the case of Flekkefjord Hospital, the Health South-East Board pointed out that the requirements for processes and documentation applicable to cases when emergency planning is required. It is good for the Minister to agree with the Health South-East Board that the present investigation does not provide the basis for a decision on the future operating model at Flekkefjord Hospital. There is a need to ensure predictability and tranquillity at Flekkefjord Hospital and around the further work on the development plans. I am therefore very pleased that the emergency services at Flekkefjord Hospital will continue. In the case of Narvik Hospital, it is supported that the process and decisions in Health Nord have been in line with Stortinget’s leadership in the treatment of the National Health and Hospital Plan. Narvik hospitals shall continue to be an acute hospital with assessment and stabilisation competence and the orthopaedic activity shall be strengthened. Gastrosurgery is to be continued as an outpatient and day surgery offer, and I am pleased that the minister will ensure that the University Hospital in North Norway follows up the board of Health Nord's request to evaluate an outpatient day surgery offer beyond normal opening hours. Today is a happy day. The structure is now being laid down in Norway. There can be peace around hospitals, and not least Odda and Odda’s population – some of them have been here today – get a good review in the Stortinget, and that ensures their offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e281	Security is so incredibly important to all of us, and therefore I understand very well that many – or most likely all – who live near a hospital, get up and get engaged when there are suggestions to do something that could lead to a poorer offer. But the whole purpose of setting up a national health and hospital plan was just to ensure that all citizens should be sure that they get the help they need when acute illness or injury occurs. This applies whether you live in Odda, Flekkefjord, Narvik, Trondheim, Akershus or Oslo. Of course, it can be challenging when you see how our country is, with long distances, fjords and mountains and some places, not so many people either. Therefore, it is so important to ensure that we have a hospital structure and emergency functions around the country that provide a good offer when you need it. On behalf of the Advancement Party, I would also like to stress that I am satisfied that calm is now being created, and that the uncertainty surrounding the structure of the hospitals is being put to death. The party to the progress is also very pleased with the conclusions that have now been drawn. They clearly show that the health plan has been followed up by the fact that where the assumptions contained in the mission document and the plan were not followed up in a good enough way, which is one example. then in Flekkefjord, the result was that the emergency response and trauma preparedness at the hospital continued to be as it is today. At Flekkefjord Hospital, there has been a great commitment locally, both among my party colleagues in West Agder and perhaps especially in Kvinesdal and Flekkefjord, among all other local politicians and not least the population. These were therefore very pleased when the Minister of Health clearly concluded at the Enterprise Meeting that there will be no changes in the current structure. It is also very pleased that Narvik Hospital remains an acute hospital with assessment and stabilisation skills and trauma preparedness, in order to ensure that its citizens can both feel safe and receive good treatment when they need it. The exposure has definitely been large also in Narvik. In the case of Odda, it is a hospital that has lived for a long time with a ghost around it, and with a very uncertain future. That is why I and the Progress Party are very pleased that Odda Hospital will continue to have emergency functions and planned surgery in the future. The hospital shall be forward-looking and further developed in accordance with the national health and hospital plan. It shall be sound, predictable, secure and an important part of the preparedness of the people of Odda and the municipalities around it. It can be clearly stated that the commitment has definitely been great local politics, among all who live in Odda and the municipalities around it. I believe that the work that has been done and the decisions that have been taken show that it was very right to put in place the first national health and hospital plan after the hospitals were taken over by the regional health companies, from the county municipalities. The structure has now been laid down and no hospitals have been closed as a result of the national health and hospital plan. The clarifications have been made. With the changes that the Minister has made, we are sure that we have a structure with good emergency hospitals that will ensure that all citizens are given a good offer, regardless of where they live in the country. The smaller emergency hospitals should also be involved and play an important role in the hospital structure of the future to ensure that people, whether living in the city or in the country, are assured that they will receive emergency assistance when they need it. Finally, I have to make a little comment on the proposal of the Centre Party to ensure that patients have access to emergency hospital with trauma in 45 minutes. I think everyone agrees that the wish is good, that the thought is very good, and that that is something we should wish for. But we've asked Stortingen's investigation section to investigate how many new hospitals with emergency functions that need to be built if you're going to a hospital with emergency functions in 45 minutes, or how many have to be moved. The investigation shows that if you want to reach 90 pst. of the population — with some assumptions — one must either build or move seven hospitals. Maybe I'm a little bit unsure if the Center Party wants to do that. It's good to know that as many as 84,8 p.m., according to the calculations and assumptions in the investigation section, reaches an emergency hospital in 45 minutes. That's very good. That means you have a good structure, and then of course you have to keep seeing if you need to make changes to further strengthen it. But I think the Minister of Health's national health and hospital plan is a very good document to ensure that the citizens of Norway have a good and proper offer, so that people can feel safe wherever they are in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e300	First, I would like to thank the committee and not least give tribute to Ruth Grung, who has been the case rapporteur. Everybody's been fighting to get a solution. We have come a long way, and we have contributed to the fact that both Odda, Narvik and Flekkefjord are in a different situation. Things would look different without this Document 8 proposal in Stortinget. The matter had not come to Stortinget. I must also make a comment to Mr Bård Hoksrud: it must be a goal that the 15 pst. Which does not reach the hospital within 45 minutes, should actually be able to do, and we have to work hard for that. Then we don't have to lay down the hospitals that exist and do a good job. If smaller hospitals are to be able to treat and have broad competence, they must not treat only small kidney disorders. They have to get a broader portfolio, which means they actually have the width of the day they need the emergency surgery, and the breadth of competence to be able to help when it's said about life. It ensures a good preparedness throughout the country. It is important for the Christian People's Party. Because there is an internal context in a hospital between surgery, anaesthesia, radiology, internal medicine and laboratory services, and it is precisely this whole that makes it good healthcare for patients. That's why the Christian People's Party has been extremely concerned with maintaining emergency surgery. In the Christian People's Party, we are delighted that the Health South-East business meeting decided that Flekkefjord hospitals should maintain their emergency functions according to today's model. The Christian People's Party would want exactly the same words that were said about Flekkefjord to be said about Odda and Narvik. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to secure the population of Ofoten a hospital in Narvik with full acute surgery readiness. Continuous emergency surgery at UNN Narvik is essential for the hospital itself to function as a whole and not least for the community. The Christian People's Party is also concerned that if there is competence on the house, it should just be lacking that they should not be able to use their skills after midnight. 16th@item: inlistbox It's absurd that we're going to start sending patients around when there's help getting into a hospital. I think that's not exploiting the resources. In the case of Odda Hospital, the Christian People's Party believes that the emergency surgery and trauma function that Odda has had has been well prepared for internal parts of Hardanger. There you can be sick or in a trauma – the road is closed, the helicopter cannot land, and it is not possible to get out by boat. Those who have been in such a situation know what it's about. The Christian People's Party is concerned that we must protect about these. It's about people's security, and it's also about the total security of a society. It's not about building down, but about expanding and seeing the possibility to ensure that more people get into the hospital in 45 minutes. Acute surgery is the key to a hospital. I know there are a lot of other treatments that are important, but yet this is about being able to stabilize and treat. Although the Christian People's Party would wish it had been a tighter decision, I would like to say from this pulpit that what has been done in the committee, to make changes, to move the largest parties, has been a victory. I want to thank the big parties for showing the will to actually say that they are willing to go a path to ensure the preparedness of the whole country. Together, we have helped to make the future of Oddas and Narvik look different, that those who work in these hospitals can actually trust – because it is said from this pulpit – that we must now build and maintain the emergency surgical preparedness that is. We've listened to the people, and we've listened to the employees, who have gone long and many guards to keep their readiness where they are. They are willing to use all the means to care for their hospital. I hear someone say that we should not control the hospitals in detail. I respect it. Nevertheless, I believe that the times we have to say something about the preparedness of the whole country, we as the owners of the hospitals must be allowed to say something from this pulpit. The Christian People's Party will thereby promote its proposals, because this was the starting point for the whole debate. That is why we are promoting these proposals. But when they fall, we think that what the majority has come up with is a very good subsidiary decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e319	At that time, Ms Bollestad, the representative, has promoted the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e324	Today we have a discussion in Stortinget that we should have had a year ago when the Stortinget adopted the National Health and Hospital Plan. At that time, the proposal of the Center Party to maintain the emergency surgery in local hospitals such as Narvik, Odda and Flekkefjord was tuned down by a broad majority of caverns. This has led to several resource-required distributions in healthcare professionals, a lot of time and a lot of health resources have been used. This could have been avoided if we had received a health and hospital plan that was as binding and clear as the Right promised in the 2013 election campaign. Two years ago, Minister of Health and Health Bent Höie said in his annual hospital speech that half of the hospitals in Norway were too small to have emergency surgery. He and the government met with great popular and professional resistance. Centralization proposals have been pushed back one after another. When the National Health and Hospital Plan arrived, there were five hospitals on his list again. It was Narvik, Flekkefjord, Volda, Gravdal and Stord. In addition, Odda came, who was to be looked at especially. Thank you to the Christian People's Party, who has brought this matter before the Greatness. It is quite clear that cutting in emergency preparedness and resolution of emergency surgery is a significant change in our hospital supply. Of course, the Storting must and must be responsible for such changes in our welfare. It also introduces health insurance laws through Section 30, which deals with this very thing. Minister of Health and Health Höie himself has come to the conclusion that last year's proposal for the Central Party on Flekkefjord was a good proposal, he now says. The preliminary meeting of Health South-East on 24 April concluded that ‘the emergency functions of the day at Flekkefjord Hospital will continue’. Congratulations to Flekkefjord. It would never have been the case without the involvement locally. Now, the Storting needs to be answered whether this means that the decision to require new development plans on emergency supply in 2018 has also been rejected. But Minister of Health Höie did not mean the same thing about hospital services in Narvik and Odda. Here he confirms the decisions of the decommissioning or the cutting of emergency surgery. The Centre Party cannot accept this. For Narvik, there is much confusion about the decision. The clearest thing is that emergency preparedness is being weakened. Gastrosurgery as a daily activity shall be abated and passed on as an outpatient and daily surgical supply. Narvik hospitals should have daily standby for planned orthopaedic operations, but what does this really mean? New emergencies for emergency hospitals are introduced only in part of the day. Gastrointestinal surgery shall only take place during the day. As a general rule, orthopedededics do not apply to acutely ill patients. The hospital shall be prepared for surgical evaluation and stabilisation, but it shall not have day-care surgeons. How does this fit together purely professionally? The impact on prehospital supply should be assessed, but only after the decision has been taken. Is that not your order? Narvik hospital should be an emergency hospital with assessment and stabilisation competence. The problem is there's nothing called it. The National Training Service for Traumatology, in its letter to the Committee, has warned against introducing such new practices that do not cover the professional environment and that this cannot compensate for the closure of emergency surgery in Norwegian hospitals. It's the same with Odda. There has also been a new transformation. Hoie has done well in writing to the Committee on the preparation of the emergency plan. The problem is that the answer is unclear, it can be interpreted, and it is uncertain whether the decision of the Enterprise Meeting to close the emergency surgery in Odda is established. It is unclear whether there should be an operating team on standby, whether there should be anaesthetic and surgical nurses, and it is unclear whether the surgeons should be able to apply patients, or whether there is only a question of stabilisation for further transportation. The centre party has asked for answers to these questions in the process. We have not received an answer to them. Then we're referred to as a non-constructive party. That's what I thought was unfair. We have also asked LO in Inner Hardanger his questions to the Council of State, which we got answers to an hour ago. It says that these questions about whether the emergency surgery decision is terminated or not, we're told in the further processes that are going to take place in Health Fonna. So the fight isn't over. On the basis of this information, we propose today to ask the government to make sure that both Odda and Narvik hospitals are further developed by establishing today's emergency services, so that emergency surgery and trauma function are maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e341	The things we handle today, highlight a temporary line that Storting not only in the name, but also in the benefit, has taken it back over the specialist health services and health care providers – a happy day. The left was one of several civil society parties that made elections in 2013 with an explicit objective of introducing and adopting a national health and hospital plan, a plan in which the Stortinget determines the framework and governance signal. And perhaps most important of all: through such a plan, we who have overseen responsibility for hospitals, the Stortinget, have once again received a duck. There is no longer any doubt as to who ultimately decides, no longer is there any doubt as to who should correct the protests. To illustrate with a practical, real case: Does anyone believe that the huge, impressive mobilization we have experienced from the Odda community in the last weeks, with the 1st May train as "all hour high", aimed at us big-time politicians, had the same shut-down exit in the previous big-time? At that time, the rule was that a pushed health care professional was in front of him, «toa his hands». ‘You don’t know what you’re talking about’ was the answer from one of the red-green party leaders to her who stood up for her local hospital, without either party leader or party following up with political action. Although this is a pleasure day for which very many should be legally honoured, I have to state that it needed a civil plurality to put in place a framework that made it possible. What was the case with Odda four years ago? There was a hospital where, after many years, audiences and local politicians, the last eight with red-green plurals, with insecurity and gradual draining of functions, remotely controlled from Haugesund, were both worn and frustrated. For Odda, the pre-treatment reform has led to the fact that a small hospital has been even smaller, a development that, if she had now been reinforced by a less acute surgical supply, there is a great danger of wanting to saga even more of the branch of the hospital dormant, and to intensify any recruitment problems further rather than improving them. There is a great deal of respect for the fact that one of the parties that took the lead in this policy, the Labour Party – and in particular the Hordaland Labour Party with the case-speaker Ruth Grung at the head – has really contributed constructively and heavily to the solution that is now on the table. I have followed the process closely on the inside, and I am really impressed by the job that Grung has done. There is also reason to highlight the Minister of Health, despite the fact that a business model naturally depends on a minister. He has our very solution-oriented and active influence on the outcome for the benefit of Odda Hospital. Then, unfortunately, I have to agree with the case officer that I am not as impressed with the Center Party. Instead of spending time and effort in the cousins to achieve concrete results and improvements for Odda and other local hospitals, they find it more useful to continue the protests and then doubt whether this is good enough. Voting and electoral campaign are more important than contributing to actual change for the benefit of hospitals and communities around – doing the rough work. Indirect beggars also the Center Party, by sitting on the sideline and criticising, to argue to those in healthcare professionals who are still looking for arguments to weaken the acute surgical supply at local hospitals. The party that advocates a trust reform has zero confidence in others than itself. The left could also have chosen to skip the plurality of this case and vote for a decision that uses even clearer words than the minister's letter. But what would we have achieved with that, as long as there are in any case multiples in the Chamber for the formulations and the choice of words the minister uses, other than weakening the contents of the letter and creating unnecessary, new uncertainty? If there's one thing that's now important to hospitals that's lived too long with the feeling of having the knife on the throat, there's just peace and security, cross-political agreement. I feel confident that during this process healthcare professionals have learned to take the Storting seriously, and that the Stortinget, when it has now introduced a health and hospital plan, means something about it. And if I were to expect that, take it wrong, the way is pretty short for the Left to use the instruments and the power that's here in the hall again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e364	The issue we're discussing now is security, it's about proximity, and it's about equivalence for all parts of our long-range country, where there's so much mountain and fjord and weather, and where there's therefore a different kind of hospital structure than in many other countries, if we're to have a good offer to the whole population. This applies not least to internal Hardanger and Odda, who have been fighting for years for their hospital. I hope this will be the day that crowns the people in the inner Hardanger's fight for their hospital with victory. Emergency surgery in Odda must be ongoing at today's level in order to provide security to the people of inner Hardanger. When the Workers' Party, the Left and the Government's parties now say that they agree, I choose to hope and believe that it implies a continuation of today's Odda model, and take them by the word. Something else would also be a very clear breach of the promise given to thousands of oddries on 1 May. At the same time – and therefore I react a little to the rhetoric from someone here, not least from the representative Breivik, whom I otherwise agree with in this matter – that it is not such that it weakens a decision to ask questions and try to find out what it means. It is also such that it would have been possible for the Workers' Party and the Left to form a majority together with the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party and to have an actual decision made in the Storting today, which would put crystal clear leadership for the further treatment. We still believe that such a decision would be the very best solution. The Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Christian People's Party will therefore continue to vote in favour of this proposal in the Stortinget later today. Now we're going to follow closely the process that the health minister and the health business are going through. The promises to Odda must be kept, and that also means that we want to get answers to the questions that still exist, which are about, for example. why the same formulations that have been used around Flekkefjord could not be used around Odda and why the letter from the Council of State does not state that it is the Odda model to be continued. We have a strong desire that it must be clearly stated that this should be a hospital with trauma function and an emergency surgical response in line with what it has today. When it is said that the Storting has taken power back, there is a truth with modifications, for this case is an example of the type of quasi-control we have received, where there is still a refusal for clear and direct decisions, where there is letter writing back and forth, where the Storing interferes more than before – and that is good – but it illustrates the need for us to have clearer lines and more direct power. If, at the end of the day, power is to lie here, it should also be made clear. We should also be able to make an explicit decision on this today. The people of Odda have fought for their hospital. They have been heard. I hope this is the day they win. So it is, just as the representative Breivik said, up to Stortingen to follow this process carefully. We're going to follow closely what the health minister and the health business are doing. If the promises are not kept, proposals will have to be put forward again in Stortinget. Deterioration of acute function is also a theme in Narvik. There are many uncertainties about the situation in Narvik. There's confusion about readiness in the evening. There is no doubt that the decision that has been taken is a weakening of preparedness at night. This is also an area of great distances, a lot of weather and a hospital where people have long felt insecurity for the future. I believe that the uncertainties that still lie around Narvik Hospital and what kind of preparedness that will now be there suggest that the Stortinget should also be there with clear leadership. That is why the Socialist Left will vote in favour of the minority proposal by the Committee on Narvik, as well as the minority proposal on Odda.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e381	We all need to feel secure that we get the necessary health care in case of acute illness. Therefore, proposals for changes in emergency functions in hospitals always create a high level of commitment. Through the National Health and Hospital Plan, the government has clarified which emergency services the population can expect in different types of hospitals. These clarifications were endorsed by a large majority when the plan was discussed at Stortinget. On 24 April, there was a business meeting for all health regions, and I stressed that the emergency functions of this meeting were clarified, in order to ensure predictability and tranquillity around the further work on the development plans of health businesses, to be completed in 2018. At the company meeting, I made decisions about the emergency services at the hospitals in Flekkefjord, Odda and Narvik. In the case of Flekkefjord Hospital, the Health Board of the South-East pointed out shortcomings in the process requirements and documentation applicable to matters where a change in emergency functions is planned. I therefore agree with the board of Health South-East that the present investigation does not provide a basis for deciding on the future operating model at Flekkefjord Hospital. There is a need to ensure predictability and tranquillity at Flekkefjord Hospitals around the further work on the development plans. I have therefore decided that the further work on the development plan for Sørlande Hospital should be based on the continuation of today's emergency functions at Flekkefjord Hospital. In the case of Narvik Hospital, it is my opinion that the process and decision have been in line with the Stortinget leadership in the treatment of the National Health and Hospital Plan. I therefore confirmed the ruling decision in Health North. Narvik Hospital shall continue to be an acute hospital with assessment and stabilisation competence and trauma preparedness. Orthopaedic activity shall be enhanced. Gastrosurgery shall be continued as outpatient and day surgery, but shall be discontinued as daily activity. I want to make sure that the University Hospital in North Norway follows up the board of Health Nord's request to assess an outpatient and day surgery offer in addition to normal opening hours, in dialogue with the staff at Narvik Hospital. This should lead to a gastro-surgical offer even afternoons/evenings. I have also confirmed Health West's decision on the framework for the development of Odda Hospital. Odd hospitals should still be an emergency hospital. It shall not be reduced but strengthened in many areas. Emergency preparedness with 24-hour outpatient clinics will be tailored to local needs, including: as a result of increasing tourism, both summer and winter. 1 May we all saw that people in Odda are burning for their hospital. Odd hospitals have special challenges because of their geographical location and the risk of closed roads. That was the background to the letter I received from the Committee and the rapporteur. In response to the Health and Care Committee, I have therefore described the leadership I will now give Health Fonna and Health West in their plan for implementing the decision. These will be given to Health West in a revised mission document. I would like to thank the majority of the committee – and in particular the rapporteur – for their good cooperation in this matter. Among other things, I hit insist that the overall preparedness of the population of Odda Hospital should be at the same level and provide equivalent security to that of today. The hospital shall be able to handle situations of acutely serious illness or injury to patients and stabilise for further transport. An emergency plan shall be drawn up with measures to address different scenarios, including a closed road situation. The emergency plan shall be drawn up in cooperation with the staff of Odda Hospital, Municipalities and other actors. The fact that overall preparedness is to be at the same level and provides equivalent security as it is today means that there may be changes in the organisation in order to make the offer more forward-looking. It is precisely to be clarified in the process that begins after Health West has received the revised mission document. In this work the employees, Odda Municipality and other stakeholders should be invited. I will start that process as early as tomorrow when I visit Odda Hospital together with the management of Health West and Health Fonna and meet with the trust-elected and the municipality of Odda. But the people of Odda will be sure that the plan presented will be assessed by me as well, and I will make sure that it is in line with the leadership given in this matter, to which I feel that the majority of the committee has also joined. After a year-long conflict with threats of closure, the government and the Stortinget are now creating peace around the emergency hospitals in Norway. The closure ghost disappears, and one takes a clearer political responsibility for having a decentralised hospital structure in Norway in the future, with emergency hospitals all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e407	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e412	Perhaps one of the most important things we have seen when working with the three hospitals in Narvik, Flekkefjord and Odda is the absence of a good relationship of trust between the smaller hospitals and the major hospitals, and it is absolutely vital if we are to meet the challenges of changing the treatment supply – something to be distributed in other ways, which is also to be transferred to the municipalities for the benefit of patients. We know, and it's often emphasized, that Voss and Bergen are two of the hospitals that have done this in a good way. Change preparedness and management are essential to achieve this. The right has also said that they are concerned with the conversion. Perhaps the hospital sector is the area most concerned with migration, and requires the highest level of good management in order to achieve the necessary transitions. What considerations does the Minister of Health make when he has seen the result of the work, especially made visible by the three hospitals we have dealt with in the matter? What does it take to improve it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e419	I fully agree that when you look at these processes, they have been different, and there have been different levels of trust between the parties. We also have to take into account that hospitals and health regions are in a completely new situation. After the treatment of the National Health and Hospital Plan, the mission has changed significantly, saying that it is now a task to ensure that the larger hospitals contribute to underpinning the role of the smaller hospitals, their functions as emergency hospitals and just that hospitals will work clearly in teams. I do not believe that this process has been optimal for the first time, but I hope that the starting point we have now is to help a greater extent cooperate across the board, because the safety of patients depends not least on large and small hospitals being able to cooperate well and have confidence in each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e428	Tomorrow, the Council of State is going to Odda. There he is certainly well received – I was when I arrived on 1 May, so he can enjoy it. But what will he say to the people of Odda, to the employees, to the rapporteur and the hospital operation? Is the hospital in Odda now saved, or what does the Council of State think?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e433	I have already met parts of the Odda people outside the Storting today, and I have had a lot of contact with the rapporteur, including other local politicians, not least from my own party in Odda. I believe that we can say very clearly the same thing as the case-rapporteur Ruth Grung has also said to the media, that Odda Hospital has never been safer than it is today, precisely because it is a very clear lead that Odda Hospital should not only be an emergency hospital in the future, but it should also develop like an emergency hospital. This means that it will be a clear mission for Health West and Health Fonna to look for tasks that can be added to Odda hospitals to support their role to ensure that the people of Odda experience the same security as they do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e438	The hospital debate is marked by veils, as is the case in this debate, with ever-new medical new words, now ‘prepared for surgical assessment and stabilisation’. This gives rise to concern, because people experience that preparedness is centralised when medical new words are used that have no professional content. That's why it's important to go to the sources. LO in Inner Hardanger has asked seven professionally very precise questions in a letter dated 9 May. The Health Council responded today at 5 p.m. 11, an hour before this debate, that he will not suspend his decision at the business meeting on 24 April to terminate the emergency surgery in Odda. The council said this will be clarified in the process that will start after Health West receives a revised mission document. The veil continues, unfortunately. I have one specific question that LO in Inner Hardanger asked: Will the Minister of Health, through his letter, continue today's model with 24-hour emergency surgery with trauma function at Odda Hospital? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e447	I record that some parties, especially the Center Party, have their own desire to create uncertainty and confusion. I think that was very clear in the committee position and in the debate we have had here today. There are very clear leads for the preparedness in Odda Hospital in the letter that Health West receives in the revised mission document. The letter is public and sent to the committee, and it is going to be repeated in the mission to the Health West. Then a number of questions are asked about how this is to be organised internally in the hospital. The Odda model has been developed in Odda, and neither in the Stortinget nor in the Ministry of Health and Welfare. I think it's wise that you solve and organize this task with the leaders I've given, also evolve in Odda and not in this room, precisely because you have to bring with you the trusted ones and the municipality and create confidence in the solutions that are being created. This trust cannot be created here, it can only be created in Odda.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e456	The representative Ruth Grung was in on it with confidence between the actors. Health Fonna and Health West have presented a model that the Odda community has not agreed on. One question is, how will the Council of State ensure that what we are actually imposing on the Council of State is being followed up? The second is: from the representative Lighthouse it was said that we can only get a decision in Stortinget that this should be the case in Odda. It is a fundamental question because it is the Minister of Health, and not the Stortinget, who in principle owns hospitals in Norway. Has it happened before the Stortinget has taken such a decision, and what would it mean for the governance model we have, that the Stortinget should take a single decision relating to one hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e463	First of all, I have come to realize that there was a lot of uncertainty in Odda, that there was a pretty big X in the corporate meeting's decision on how to maintain the preparedness. It was a plan that was not developed, and no one knew the contents of it. The letter I sent to Stortinget has now provided very clear guidance on what this plan will contribute to, and that the employees at the hospital in the municipality will be involved in developing and meeting those requirements. I think that will create just predictability and trust in the result. Regarding the second question raised by the representative, I do not know that Stortinget has ever made a specific decision on the content of a single hospital, and I think that is wise. Very quickly, the organisation of services and the organisation of services are closely linked to the question of whether a service is appropriate. Responsibility for the adequacy of a service is always with local management. If the Stortinge assumes that responsibility, you move at the whole division of responsibilities. It can affect patient safety and quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e472	I would suggest that the Council of State and those behind the majority solution should not be offended by questions, but merely try to inform us when we ask questions. The decision of the health care company, as I understood this, has not been lifted. What the Council of State will do now is to tell you how it will be followed up: then I understand that the Council of State will not give an explicit guarantee that today's Odda model will pass. Now there's a dialogue about how to do this. But just to make it clearer what attitude the Council of State is taking into this work, can he describe what is the difference between the stance of the Council of State now and that of the Council of State three weeks ago, when he confirmed the decision to close the emergency surgery?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e479	The main difference is that now Health West, in the revised mission document they receive from me in June, will have a mission that will give them clear leadership for the development of the offer in Odda. This means that they are given a guide to deal with situations of serious illness or injury to patients and trauma patients that can be further stabilised for transport. This applies to both serious medical and surgical conditions. They are provided with a guide for the overall preparedness to be at the same level as today and are given instructions for a surgeon/orthoped to be able to treat patients and harm them in outpatient clinics and to be available to the hospital on a daily basis. The same shall apply to anaesthetic and medical consultation. They also get clear leads for training, training, so that the rest of the medical staff at Odda Hospital can handle the kind of situation that I perceive Odda's population has been very concerned about: there should still be security in the hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e485	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e492	I am pleased with the clarifications made by an overall health and care committee in the comments on the future of hospitals in Odda, Flekkefjord and Narvik. The size will today be in favour of important measures to strengthen and develop the health professional competence, including the emergency preparedness of UNN Narvik, measures that need to be followed up by enterprises. It has been decided that UNN Narvik should have a 24-hour trauma team, and the Stortinge considers that this team should be able to handle selective surgery whenever necessary and for the benefit of the patient. The hospital shall have an emergency response but, with the latest decision in Health North and UNN, has been limited by night time. On this basis, however, the hospital’s emergency services need to be further developed, and there is room for that. It is important to stress that, in addition to providing a better range of services for day-to-day surgery and out-of-patient treatment, it will be possible to use the professional resources to treat acute events within the extended opening period. In this way, the use of professional resources is more flexible and more sensible. Thus, the hospital also has an emergency surgical response, but this preparedness shall have an assessment and stabilisation competence in addition to being able to handle acute events. I believe that when the hospital is going to have a 24-hour, continuous soft-surgery watch system, soft-surgeons should also be able to perform necessary, acute gastrointestinal operations at night when they are able to operate on the basis of a professional assessment. For the Workers' Party, it is important that the total resources now allocated to UNN Narvik with trauma teams, extended opening time for day surgery and outpatient services, food departments and several planned orthopaedic operations, together will provide better emergency services and better services for the general population. The working party is concerned that hospitals should establish flexible and functional working time arrangements to achieve this, which is of particular importance in the new hospital to be built in Narvik. Finally, I would like to say a little bit about local management. In the Workers' Party we are concerned that hospitals should have local management. There may be different ways, different models, but there must be a requirement for local management to be effective and for responsibility to be clear. A new position shall now be established at UNN Narvik and given the title of ‘operator’. Here, there is a need for political governance with what becomes the content of these new local managements created at hospitals and for it to have a real function.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e503	When the Minister presented the National Health and Hospital Plan, there were reactions. In particular, the reactions were particularly strong with regard to the scenarios presented on an indicative population limit of 60000 to 80000 in order to maintain acute functions, including the inclusion of five to six hospitals on a list, which would lose their emergency functions. We from the Workers' Party were early very aware that we had to ignore these scenarios, and the Stortinget then gave its leadership for what the emergency functions would contain in the future through the treatment of the hospital plan. From the Labour Party we have always been very clear that it was the Minister's responsibility to follow up. On 24 April, the flag was hoisted in Flekkefjord when the minister took this responsibility after a clumsy local process, but with an incredible local commitment. There I would like to thank the Minister for taking that responsibility, and that he is now ready to continue the emergency functions in Flekkefjord as today through the new development plan that runs until 2035, and that provides the expected peace and security. It is also good that the Minister, on request from the Committee, says that a new revised letter of assignment will be sent to Health Vest, stating that the overall preparedness of Odda Hospital should be at the same level and with the same security as it is today, and that competent measures and regular training should be taken to deal with acute incidents. What concerns me anyway, and which I must be allowed to point out in this case, is how we will help to further develop our hospitals, through which also Flekkefjord, and then you will not get out of the economy. That's how the Minister of Health promised 12 billion. kr before the election and a missing 3 billion. kr to follow up that promise. In addition, with the year’s budget, there was a significant deterioration in the budgetary settlement, with a cut half a billion more in efficiency. Today we can read in the local newspaper Agder that Sørlanden hospital must cut 150 years' worth of work in its new development plan that they are now going to create after the emergency function has been completed, and that worries. I would like to remind you that in our budget for 2017, Sørlanden hospital would have received approx. Seventy-five million. kr extra in its budget. I think it is important to give priority to our hospitals ahead of privatisation and tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e514	I think it's worth remembering that when we're here today, it's been 15 years since we introduced the health company reform, it's taken 15 years for the Stortinget to develop a complete plan and we're discussing some hospitals today. Last week we visited the German Health Committee here in Norway, they were also inside the Stortinget, and they were particularly concerned with hospital structure. In Germany, they have 2,000 hospitals. In Norway, we have 48. There are 81 million inhabitants in Germany, but that means there are 40,000 inhabitants per hospital. In Norway, we have over 100,000 people per hospital. This means that in Norway we already have quite centralised, large hospitals. What I want to say is that there's actually room for having some small ones. Today Odda and Thinset become a little bit true, because these are hospital models that in the future can be quite similar. What we have done in the hospital plan is to clarify a work division between large and small hospitals. We still have a job to do with looking at the vulnerability of the small ones, because they've been losing both professionally and administratively, at the leadership level. It is difficult to resist, and that is where the population of Odda, in Flekkefjord, in Volda and in other small communities has been an important player – telling us about the importance of hospitals, that they are important. Then we also have to discuss the relationship between surgery and psychiatry, because the psychiatry also comes into a sub-balance here. There are 250 deaths of overdose in Norway per year, and about 250 deaths occur in Norway. 500 suicides, while a little over 100 die in car accidents. So the relationship between acute psychiatric and acute somatic is also important to discuss, and we need to have a structure for both parts and capabilities and competences related to it. Then there has been a tulipan alliance in Stortinget related to the morbidity plan. So today's decision consists of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Labour Party and the Left Party. If you look back at the eight red-green years, there was more of a fig leaf policy where you hid behind and pushed health care businesses in front of you. That was when six hospitals lost the emergency surgery – large places like Elverum, Kongsberg, Lærdal, Lake Mosque, and hospitals were also closed on a larger scale than today. So how we move on is actually important, and there's been an morbidity plan that has played an important role, and here too the Left has played an important role – on the inside, and not on the outside, like the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. Yes, it is important that we have both a position and an opposition, but the situation for Flekkefjord had not been the same without the left taking on the task of standing on the inside and fighting the battle for Flekkefjord. Similarly, we have done so in Odda, and I would also like to thank the rapporteur in Odda and Anne Marit Buer from the Left for doing a great job internally for Odda.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e527	We have major governance challenges at the Southern Hospital. Fortunately, we've been given local leadership, it's helped something. We've got a leader in Flekkefjord, a leader in Kristiansand and a leader in Arendal, but the problem is that it's the so-called meat weight that's going on. It is in plain text Kristiansand versus Arendal and Flekkefjord. And the method is well-known, it's been going on for 15 years: the profession or individuals in the professional community at the hospital in Kristiansand want something, believes something. The matter is being discussed for a period of time, uplifted to the hospital director, who then submits proposals to his board, where there has always been a clear and clear majority of those who want to do the same thing as the trade union community in Kristiansand. Ergo: it is adopted by a large majority. This has happened repeatedly to the hospital in Arendal and the hospital in Flekkefjord. That's why we see the major challenges that are now at the head of the Flekkefjord Hospital. Fortunately, this time it ended well, and I am very pleased that the minister has been clear, and the Stortinget has been clear that Sørlanden hospital Kristiansand is a major emergency hospital, that Sørlanden hospital Arendal is a large emergency hospital, and that Sørlanden hospital Flekkefjord is an emergency hospital. But the question is, what lesson is there in this? For it has been clear here: there have been many hospital managers at the Sørland hospital and said that the hospital plan says it and so – and we have been met with head cheese. We have met here at the house and elsewhere – and have been met with head cheese. I'm very happy that the Storting today puts her foot down. There must be a learning in it, so that there will be no rematch, and so that the signals of the Storting and the decisions we take here today are followed up in practice. We're gonna make sure of that. And if they don't, then the director of the Sørlande Hospital has managed a serious problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e536	We are also considering a Document 8 proposal today to ensure that patients have access to an emergency hospital with trauma function if the transport time is over 45 minutes. It also deserves some attention. It is important to ensure a good, coherent system of emergency services both inside and outside hospitals. We have to provide security for the people of all parts of the country. It should be safe to live in central parts of our country and also in more populated areas – inland or off the coast – in Odda, Narvik or Flekkefjord, as we are talking about today. In order to achieve the objective of safe health services for all in our country – with demanding climate and communication conditions – we need to design services to adapt them to geography, population patterns, transport opportunities and, in particular, to the different areas of healthcare. Trauma surgery, i.e. the treatment of severely injured patients has developed over the past few years into a highly specialised function requiring the planned interconnection and convergence of several specialities. That is why the treatment of the most serious injuries has been added to the four regional trauma centres. The ambulance staff must make an assessment at the point of damage. In consultation with the AMK centres, they need to assess whether the patient should be transported directly to a trauma centre without taking the road to the local hospital. Fortunately, most trauma patients have less serious injuries and can be completed in emergency and local hospitals with the necessary skills. Acute hospital with no trauma function may also be a good place to investigate and stabilise patients in case of suspected serious injury — pending transport. In such hospitals, the measures must be implemented in consultation with the patient’s expected hospital, i.e. by good communication, and this should be well possible in our digitalised world. It is necessary to ensure that diagnostics and on-site treatment do not delay transport. The overall consideration of all trauma management is that seriously injured patients are to be transported as quickly as possible to the hospital that can process them. The professional recommendation that seriously injured patients be transported to the nearest trauma hospital if there is more than 45 minutes transport time must be seen in the light of this overall consideration. To the debate today: what we have learned from this process is that regional health businesses need to listen more. Hospitals in enterprises need to cooperate more, not compete. It is now time for development, not for activism.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e557	Hospitals are engaged because they are safe. The centre party has presented its alternative long ago in the ‘People’s Health Service’ document, which I encourage more people to read. That's where we have our line, which we're consistent on anyway. What we are discussing today is also the proposal of the Centre Party to ensure damaged patients access to emergency hospitals with trauma function if the transport time to the trauma centre is over 45 minutes – I stress: 45 minutes. If you had thought of it in the east, I guess the minutes would have been a lot less. What Mr. Bård Hoksrud said was interesting. He said it was a good suggestion from the Center Party, that it was a natural suggestion, but the representative had got the Swedish Research Department to look at what it would lead to. If it were to be carried out, seven new hospitals had to be moved or built. Yeah, what's up? What's up? What is central to the answer is that hospitals need to be strengthened. You need to build up, you need to develop the hospitals we have, and maybe make sure you develop further hospitals like this. in Alta, so that you bring down that time. That is what characterises a modern society — taking into account reality and the quality requirements that will be set in the present time. That is why the Central Party is proud of the proposal we have put forward here on emergency medical and emergency surgery preparedness. Full local hospitals are for the Center Party acute surgery, emergency medicine, anaesthesia, X-ray and laboratory. The five things can't be said too often. They must be hammered, hammered and hammered in. It is the necessary width competence for quality. That's what the medical professionals agree on, and that's what the Storting hasn't taken over yet. So we're talking about local management and general rule. I've just been to Volda. They have been through a new, difficult process in which they have wasted the resources of public employees and achieved no improvements. For local management is something more than receiving flower bouquets. It is that it is a person who is responsible and has authority. It is a person responsible for securing the budget, ensuring the employment of skilled professionals and ensuring that quality is delivered. There is talk here of local management without anyone defining what you're talking about, while the council refers to Ringerijk Hospital. Yeah, what do they have in Ringerijk Hospital? Yes, there they have an official leader named Per Bleitelia, and he has the authority that I am describing here – but not all over the hospital that he should have had. The Council of State refers to a local government that is not practised elsewhere in the country. There's a lot to discuss about these questions. I'll take it up in the next article.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e574	I must thank you for the debate so far. It's good with real commitment. What was at the root of the Workers' Party when we wanted a further investigation of the hospitals that were uncertain about being an emergency hospital, was the requirement that the most important thing is that the population knows that they are guaranteed the same quality if it is a small or large hospital. That's why we wanted that openness and investigation, so that they can recruit the good professionals and the population to be completely safe. I see that there is some criticism towards the time when Stoltenberg and the red-green fell, because we put down some hospitals. But maybe we helped to get exactly the sustainable structure that is needed to ensure the necessary quality of society throughout Norway. And then to the Light Hill, which believes that Odda would be better assured if the opposition made a decision in Stortinget: There's the Labour Party disagreed. We believe that when we get all the big parties and government parties with us and anchored the whole proposal in top management in the heaviest department, maybe next to the Ministry of Finance, there is security for the people that this will be implemented. The opposite would have been to force through a decision that neither the major parties nor the government parties had been in favour of, and for which health care companies had not wanted, and one had continued to experience uncertainty and unnecessary noise associated with Odda Hospital. And then to Kjersti Toppe, which, in my opinion, contributes to completely unnecessary unrest in the population, which is not the basis for that. The Storing politician has chosen to use the terms we used in the National Health and Hospital Plan, and is faithful to it. We know what's in it, and we haven't used the medical terms that are in the trauma plan, because the professionals have better knowledge of it. But now we've given clear frameworks. It can't be more obvious. Now I've worked so closely on this, so I'm absolutely sure we're now getting the best solution for Odda's population and the municipalities around, and that the hospital should be sure of a future. It also applies to Narvik and Flekkefjord. It's the same processes I've been confirmed here today – that now health care companies are going to realize that they have a responsibility to make sure that there are good offers for everyone, and that they use and share skills and have work sharing between large and smaller hospitals. We're well educated in what it's about, and we're going to visit those hospitals. You're gonna have to be safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e587	There's been a lot of anxiety and a lot of commitment around the emergency surgery at Flekkefjord Hospital. We are many who are now happy that the threat of closure has been put to death. This is important – mainly for the population, but also for those who work at the hospital, and for recruitment. The National Health and Hospital Plan concluded that we should have a decentralised hospital structure that would remain and be further developed. Through a wide-ranging project group, Health Sør has assessed how an overall emergency offer at Flekkefjord Hospital should be. The project team has given its recommendations, and a clear majority recommend surgical emergency preparedness at the hospital in Flekkefjord. They have had good arguments and specifically asked questions about the processes prior to the Board's decision on closure. Distance and poor roads have also been important arguments. The Minister of Health has listened to this, and we are very pleased about that. After years of fighting and threats of closure, the government is now creating peace around the emergency hospitals in Norway. They promised that no hospital would be laid down as a result of a national health and hospital plan, and it is very good that that promise has been made. It creates predictability for hospitals that can now further develop in security that they are needed in the future. Thank you to the Minister of Health and to the majority who have found good solutions to ensure a good offer in the future. So a comment on Odd Omland's criticism of the economy: Our promises have led to a rise in the economy of hospitals. Through our four budgets, we have adopted a higher growth than the Labour Party has achieved in eight years. They ruled in the golden years of the Norwegian economy, but were unable to give priority to hospitals when they had the opportunity. Now, when we don't fully raise, it's mostly because we've had less income and have had to spend more money on the refugee crisis. There is a need for continued growth in hospitals, but there are results for patients that are the most important – 70,000 fewer queues, and we have 12 days shorter waiting time. We're really on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e600	My attitude to this day has been that I believe in the intentions behind the agreement that has been concluded. I want, hope and believe that this means victory for the people of Odda. That is also what I said outside the Storting earlier today. Therefore, I have to say that I react a little to the attitude that is related to asking questions about what the Workers' Party, the Left and the government parties have agreed on. It's like questions themselves cause concern or critical questions could undermine the solution. To be honest, there's silence that would have been the problem here, there's too much political silence that makes businesses get too much power. The size still has to interfere. We would not have had this debate if not the Christian People's Party and SV had promoted a proposal that would make us here now. The balance between science and politics is a complicated issue in the health debate, but the issues we are discussing here now are deeply political and cannot be made purely professional. They deal with the allocation of resources and competences between different parts of the country and different communities. It's a responsibility that the elected representatives have for those who have chosen us to stand up in such matters. Then I choose to believe in the very clear guarantees we have received from Ruth Grung and from representatives of the government parties, but it must be allowed to ask in this debate why it is not possible to use words such as the ‘Odda model’, ‘renewal’, ‘dream function’, etc. It's not to offend anyone that I and others ask about it. That's because we want to be sure where this process ends, and because it's so important. I trust what has been said here, at the same time, it's our job to stand watch over Odda hospitals and the other hospitals we're now discussing, and asking critical questions is part of it, not an attempt to insult anyone. It is also part of giving a clear message to the enterprises from here that one is capable of bringing together the political expectations, that there is no room for confusion about the emergency functions in this process – they are to be maintained at the same level as it is today. I have hurt to see that it can be done without a clear continuation of today's model, and that is why I ask about it, because I am so concerned that it will be the result.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e609	First of all, I would like to thank the Christian People's Party and the Central Party for raising this debate, and not least one thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Grung, who has brought this matter through in the Committee. Once upon a time, it is the minister's job to follow up what the Storting has decided, and that is the reason why the matter was brought back here, that you were not quite satisfied with the way it was followed up after we adopted a hospital plan. That is why we are discussing this matter today. I am pleased with the clarifications made by an overall health and care committee, because it is incredibly important for those involved. Not least, it is important for the part of the country that I come from, and the hospital that there is discussion around – just Narvik. It is therefore important to stress that, in addition to providing a better range of services for day surgery and outpatient treatment, professional resources should also be used to treat acute events within the extended opening period. In this way, the use of professional resources is flexible and sensible. Well, that's got to be the right idea. For the Workers' Party, it is important that the total resources now allocated to Narvik will provide both better emergency services and better services in general for the population. The working party is concerned that our hospitals should establish flexible and functional working time arrangements to achieve this which will be important not least in a future-oriented new hospital in Narvik. So a little bit about local management. There were also clear leads in the hospital plan, and I agree with those who have asked questions about the way it is interpreted and handled. Therefore, I am pleased that it is also made clear in this document that there are expectations that local management should be a real local management. I ask the Minister to take a closer look at it, not least what might be happening in Narvik. It cannot be that a local management should only be a social contact. It must be a real local management. That is very important. I note that there is disagreement in this matter as to whether or not a decision is interpreted. It is better to instruct the minister and the hospital companies. I believe that it is well taken care of in the lead, and there should be no doubt for Health Nord what is expected from the Stortinget with the leaders lying there. We'll follow up and make sure that this happens. It is reassuring that the Committee is also clear on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e629	There's an expression that says, one has to hear a lot before the ears do this. I almost felt that way when the representative from the left said that it was because they had done so much by supporting the hospital plan, that the hospitals had become so stable. It was precisely because of the ambiguities surrounding the emergency surgery that the Christian People's Party went out of the negotiations on the health and morbidity plan. The majority who adopted the National Health and Hospital Plan went out just after the decision and said that no hospital was now threatened, no hospital was to be closed. Why then did there become uncertainty around Narvik, Volda, Odda, Gravdal, Flekkefjord and Stord? The hospital buildings might have been saved, but people said, "What's going to be in these hospitals?" Was it then so clear, what was adopted? Flekkefjord was actually told by the local corporate board that the emergency surgery would now be completed. There was no clear decision. Narvik's been wondering if they're having an emergency surgery after 8 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox That is why we have had to lift these matters into the Storting because it was not clear enough. We've lifted them up with a Document 8 proposal to clarify the local hospitals that feel threatened, now have to be sure they have that surgery. It's about being clear about what we're saying. I should have liked that order to be a little clearer today, but I am very pleased that it has become as ready as it has become, and I would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e634	A lot has been said in this debate. I am happy to be criticized for asking the questions that no one will answer. The afterlife will show that it might have been fooled in Stortinget today. We're not fighting election. The centre party is making the same proposal that we made a year ago in this matter. We're the ones who've meant the same thing all along, and we can't be charged with a different line all of a sudden. There is nothing in the setting that says emergency surgery and trauma function should be continued. The two words are not used. Had I asked questions about why we can't get the same decision for Odda and Narvik that we get in Flekkefjord, it must be possible to listen in this case. The one who has been most honest today is the representative Kristin Ørmen Johnsen, who said in his post that we can have an emergency hospital with no trauma function to accept injured patients. It's the new thing today. This is contrary to national professional recommendations. On the contrary, it is national trauma plan, but it is perhaps what is the new political event here today, that we should have local hospitals that accept emergency patients without having trauma function, and the clear definition of what some people have so far adhered to. Torben Wisborg, the leader of the National Traumatology Competence Service, has a problem with the introduction of new interventions as evaluation and stabilisation teams, which do not have occupational coverage. He thinks that when new interventions are introduced, it's important that they contain something that's important to patients. According to Wisborg, an assessment and stabilisation team that is less competent and less qualified than an emergency hospital with trauma function will be deceiving patients and the population. These recordings are not listened to, but one criticises the Center Party, which addresses exactly these objections. So I've shown you the answer the Minister of Health came in today, which is an answer to the questions from LO in Inner Hardanger. Then it is shown that these questions need to be resolved in the process that will start after Health West has received a revised mission document. It concerns whether or not the emergency surgery has been discontinued. It concerns the question of today's model of day-based acute surgery with trauma function being continued. It concerns the question of whether there should still be a team in standby at Odda Hospital who can perform an emergency surgery. I think this should and should have had clear answers to today. I now have some political experience and some professional experience when it comes to hospital policy, and I think we should be respected for the questions we have asked. Otherwise we're also clear that all of this is better than nothing when it's Odda.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e647	The representative Grung said something interesting. She said that what worries her the most is the lack of trust in the relationship between large and small hospitals. I can agree to that. There is a lack of confidence in the idea that the larger hospitals value far too little the work done in the smaller hospitals, and see how the interaction between small and large hospitals can be of common benefit. It is the responsibility of a Council of State to send out a letter of assignment that will weaken that culture, with the lack of trust, and quickly weaken it. In the model of the Center Party, we have a Nav-Eik model. The hub is the major hospitals. The oaks are the smaller hospitals. Both are required for the wheel to function. The representative Grung said that all the parties – with one exception – have contributed constructively to Odda. Understood: the Centre Party has not contributed constructively. The centre party has been the rock of the Odda community. Both professionally and politically, we have run a pure-haired line, and I think that the representative Grung should save himself from it kicked against the Central Party when someone knows what our policy is. But I will give the representative Grung honor for her work to move the political boundaries internally in the Workers' Party. I want to pay tribute to the representative Grung on 1 May for saying something that she did not have coverage for in the party management, in terms of securing Odda Hospital, because this has led us to some degree in a different situation. It was a tough position to go out so clearly from the representative Grung, because it has now led to an attention around Norway's smallest continental hospital that we might not have otherwise. But attacking the Center Party in that way is not appropriate. The Council of State did not answer the question of whether to continue the day’s model of day-based acute surgery with trauma function in Odda Hospital. He said it was going to be a custom Odda model. It's very interesting, but what was even more interesting was that trust is created in Odda. Trust is created in Odda, and the Odda model is based on trust. It is then very central that the Odda community, which through the letter from L.A. in Inner Hardanger has sent seven questions, gets clear answers to that, because here the Council of State has said that the model called the Odda model should be based on trust – trust between the people who need the hospital services, those who are employed there, and us elected by the people. Thus, professionals and those affected by Odda’s services have almost got a trump to ensure a qualitatively good offer. It's going to be interesting to see how the council follows up on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e660	I want to contact the representative Audun Lighthouse's posts related to silence, because I think it's very interesting. This room needs to contribute to the absolute absence of debate on hospital content and structure. We need to discuss it more. We need to discuss the concentration of power in regional health businesses. We need to discuss more transparency. We also need to discuss the professional content, but the Storting must be less a part of it. The national health and hospital plan has been important to ensure both the safety of hospitals and a structure, which has previously been highly uncertain. And there I have to arrest the representative Oluk V. Bollestad of the Christian People's Party: the discussion about Volda, Narvik, Flekkefjord and Stord was mainly there before we adopted the ill-sickness plan. After we adopted the hospital plan and hit what should be the criteria, that discussion has stopped. Flekkefjord, Stord, Volda – it’s quiet now. It has been demanding along the way, yes, but it shows that the medical plan is now working. We got to grips with what was necessary to make that peace. I look forward to the further development of the hospital plan, because we're totally dependent on it. We are also discussing the requirement of 45 minutes for traumatists – a proposal for a representative promoted by the Centre Party. To the Central Party, SV and the Christian People's Party: For all things – the debate we have today is absolutely necessary. There is no need to cover or delay the discussions on health policy in Norway. When we see that hospitals in the United Kingdom have been attacked digitally over the weekend, we are facing major debates on safety and vulnerability in the Norwegian health sector, which we need to take seriously – and not just debates on where we are going to have hospitals. This is also about bodyguards, because on the watch of the Center Party, during the red-green reign, there were considerably fewer bodyguards, with larger areas. This is also about emergency medical preparedness in Norway. And when we ask questions about where new hospitals should be built - there might have to be seven, and there's an investment of 30 billion. kr – the centre party must place that investment on the table. Where are they going to get that money? It's also part of this debate, but I haven't heard where they're going to pick up that money. For me, who's from Gjøvik and the Inland, it's a little strange to hear from the Center Party that they'll eventually build seven new hospitals, while in the Inland they'll actually wind up three hospitals and risk the entire Tynset by investing in a new state hospital in the Inland. So this doesn't really matter. The centre party has some explanation challenges when they want to centralize enormously in a part of the country, but they don't want it in another part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e673	There are two strong underlying driving forces that characterize both of the two issues that we are discussing now. First of all, there's a strong idea that larger units are always best. But there is no professional evidence to establish that this is the case when emergency preparedness is collected in Norway, nor does it create a better supply for people. More on the contrary — there is evidence that acute surgery is equally high in smaller hospitals, and not least that the supply to people is better if it is close. In particular, there is a country like Norway. This drive is about saving money, not how to create the best possible supply for the entire population, regardless of each cage. This is also linked to the second driving force of this debate. Because there is a constant trend in the policy of this government that a desire to weaken the community has to deal with the sudden and unexpected. This is what we see when the occupancy rate in hospitals is pushed up, with more patients on fewer health workers, to a level far above what I think researchers are defending. The result is that if something unexpected happens, there are not enough resources to handle it. It's the planned treatment that's at the center. We see the same thing in this case, where the goal is to weaken the preparedness of smaller hospitals and move the capacity to larger ones, so that those who are at work have the highest possible activity rate, if it's an expression. It saves a lot of money. One gets more for the money, but it goes beyond security and greetings to people. The underlying question is, Who is responsible for hospitals? This whole thing would be superfluous if we had a clear and clear national health and hospital plan, but we don't. So this repeats over and over again. The promises from Right and Höie in the 2013 election campaign that we should get just that, this is a contradiction. Specially Volda, Flekkefjord, Narvik, Gravdal, Stord and Odda have been under the spotlight since the Minister of Health claimed that there was no basis for emergency surgery in half of the hospitals in the country. The appointment was quickly attended by professional staff. The Health Minister later went back on his announcements, but the lot was thrown. This sets in motion an extensive distribution process and major public mobilization. Cuts in emergency services are, of course, a significant weakening of hospitals, but also of the well-being of the country's citizens, and there is a responsibility The Storting cannot escape. Of course, we have to be a nuisance and meet this with everything other than silence. Today, a plurality on the Stortinget goes beyond what it did in the National Health and Hospital Plan, but it's still full of mystery. What's in, e.g. in Narvik, acute supply only part of the day while competence is available 24 hours a day? Why should the prehospital be evaluated later, and what is in it? All of this will come the Dakapo later because the Storting is running through mystery and ambiguity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e688	Just a little piece of information. The centre party refers to the national trauma plan. It's almost like a Bible – it's repeated very many times in Document 8:68 S for 2016–2017 – but I can tell you that hospitals with no trauma function should be able to stabilize damaged patients. It's clearly described in the trauma plan. So another little visit, to the Center Party: Per Bleitelia, the excellent boss of the Ringy Hospital, ends. I would like to comment on Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes’ claim that we are now weakening the preparedness of hospitals in Norway. I think it actually has to be documented. What we did in the National Health and Hospital Plan was to give a spine of hospitals in Norway. We divided hospitals by functions. We were looking at competence. It creates stability, and it's incredibly important to recruit to the hospital. It's no use adopting anything here if people don't want to work in hospitals. Worry and talking down a hospital doesn't make people want to move and work at that hospital. What we've done is we've put together a long-term plan. We do not lay down hospitals or remove functions without a careful assessment of this. On the contrary, preparedness in Norway has never been as strong as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e697	The representative Kjersti Toppe has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e702	The Central Party has put forward a proposal for a representative for this same debate, to ensure that, if the distance from the trauma centre for patients is over 45 minutes, the local hospital should have trauma function, to require healthcare professionals to base their current trauma functions on existing emergency hospitals for the development of the regional trauma system, and to ask for a clean-up and coordination of abuse when it comes to requirements and competences for the reception of injured patients in Norway. This is in conjunction with the matters we have had today, about emergency services in hospitals. We believe that we need to build a national trauma plan. Professionals have developed the plan, he has recently been revised, and healthcare professionals have plans to implement it. It is also a little strange to think that both the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have suggested that there should be no more than 45 minutes to get passports and weapons cards. Then we think it must be the same for hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e709	The representative, Audun Lysbakken, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e714	The representative, Kjeseth, had a good wish to discuss the management of hospitals. I agree, but then we also have to reflect on what the problem is. We have a law that says that the Storting should stay away, but a practice where the Storting slowly but surely involves itself more than intended. That's what it had to be because these are deep political issues. There is hardly anything people in Norway care about as much as if they have safe hospitals or not. This means that we get more random, indirect control from the Storting when we get a chance to do so, like today because it was suggested around it – a kind of quasi-management from the Stortinget side. The system is the problem here. I think this is one of the many discussions that show why the business model should be abolished. We need either more political governance from national teams, from government and growth, or a future in which hospitals are governed by future larger and politically stronger regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e720	The representative of Olug V. Bollestad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e725	The rest has fallen after torches and hospital operations, we hope. And we hope it's sunk forever. In the case of the case in 45 minutes to get to a trauma department, the Christian People's Party believes that this is related to the air ambulance service, the ambulance service, the medical care service, the fixed medical system, the education and competence of doctors and other health professionals – and all this should have been the Christian People's Party's wish within a health and hospital plan, which we could discuss every four years according to the model of the National Transport Plan. Then we could discuss questions like: When we set the goals we set? What happens in a municipality when we change something in hospitals and vice versa? That's why the Christian People's Party wants to develop the Health and Sickness Plan for something that creates a great commitment and at the same time discusses down to the extreme how we can ensure good preparedness in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e732	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e737	It is correct that Per Bleideli ends at Ringerijk Hospital. It's a shame, but he continues as a leader -- this time by Martina Hansen's Hospital, and it'll be a pleasure to follow him there. To Terje Breivik, who says that the Center Party will give arguments to the health companies that will weaken the offer in Odda: It is quite bold, I would say, because the Center Party has learned that there are large-scale decisions that are needed, not remarks. And what's most important is the popular commitment. Had not the popular involvement in Odda and Flekkefjord been as it has been, the situation would not have been as positive as it is now. That's what's at the heart of this. So the popular commitment will advance the Center Party, because it's safe. It is right, as the representative Kristin Örmen Johnsen said, that preparedness has never been stronger. Why? Because there's been commitment to this hall, and not least outside this hall. We drive the centralists back, and we are looking forward to the further discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e746	It was nice to hear the previous speeches, for there are probably not many who have laid down more hospitals than what Per Olaf Lundtägen and his party did as part of the previous government. First to the Christian People's Party and the wish and challenge that we must work to ensure that everyone, including the last 15 p.m., can get to trauma treatment in 45 minutes. We definitely agree that it is important to work that way. It's good to know then that the Christian People's Party may no longer be so concerned that we spend a little more of the oil money. At least it seems that the Progress Party is a good way to do it, as well as that we now actually have a government that builds infrastructure that means something to get to the hospital quickly. Infrastructure is essential for faster access to, inter alia: hospitals. The air ambulance is an important part of it, and of course, the ambulance service and ambulance boats are important ingredients to get it done in a good way. But I have to go to the Center Party. Actually, I think the debate has been good, but it's a little special to hear the representative Lundtigen and the Central Party, when we know what the Central Party was doing in the last period. I think most people remember that a former state councillor and party leader in the Center Party, who visited a hospital in Sogn and Fjordane, attended and made sure that the offer was greatly reduced. In fact, during this period and after the National Health and Hospital Plan has been submitted, there is no need to do anything to shut down hospitals. But I agree – and it is also in the National Health and Hospital Plan and in the leaders given by the Council of State – that it is important that the trust between the small and large hospitals is there, and that the large hospitals also see the need to ensure that the small hospitals can participate in providing good services and that they can also be able to transfer tasks. A very good example of that is radiation treatment. Ten to fifteen years ago, I think there were a few people who thought there were services to move out of one, maybe two hospitals. So now it's at full speed out, just because you can apply new technology, you can get people treated closer where people live. It's been the whole purpose, and it's at least the party of progress. We want to move things out, so that people can get treatment and help closer to where they are, and that you can secure and strengthen the offer – which we want to do, and which is in the proposal that concerns both Odda, Flekkefjord, Narvik and other local and less acute hospitals. Technology will also help us to treat people more closely where they are and to feel secure in getting help when you need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e755	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 3 and 4 are being debated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e784	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e793	Many health professionals point to a lack of gastrosurgeons and lack of general surgeons as an argument for centralising acute surgery and weakening local preparedness. We've had a lot of examples of that in the case that we just discussed. The Christian People's Party has proposed that the first mandatory part of the medical specialist scheme, LIS1, which replaces the current rotation scheme, be given a more detailed regulation with clear requirements for content and achievement for this part of specialist training. The Christian People's Party also asks the government to consider changing the rules for the distribution of turns, and to create more LIS1 settings. The turn system was reorganized in 2013, where one passed away from the old soldering system. From 1 March 2017, a new specialty training requirement shall apply to LAGs and dental practitioners. This code has highlighted visibility in professional environments. Many people don't recognize her from what was the output documents. The proposers believe that a new regulation for specialist training for legislators should contain requirements specifications, learning objectives and learning activities, mandatory in-house medical services, requirements for surgically simple skills as laid down in previous rotational practices, national mandatory learning activities, concrete procedural lists and concrete requirements for having seen and followed in-house medical patients with normal conditions, see above. the concrete objectives proposed by the working group. This is also in line with recordings from, for example: The association of younger doctors to the cause. They believe that procedural requirements and mandatory courses must be maintained in addition to learning objectives. The Medical Association and the Liaison Committee have also made clear their views on the revision. It is reacting to generalization as one think gives health professionals greater flexibility that can go at the cost of quality. In this setting, the Minister of Health and Welfare states in his letter to the Committee that the Directorate of Health has opened for the adjustment and revision of learning objectives if important aspects have fallen after the hearing. The Christian People's Party and the Central Party are behind proposals to secure regulations with specialised requirements and mandatory learning activities as described in the representative's proposal, plus a change in the procedures for awarding tournament places. I would like to introduce the suggestions in the configuration. The Central Party has also put forward a proposal to ask the Government to introduce its own specialty of education in emergency surgery/general surgery in order to meet the needs of national and international work and to provide the necessary financial measures to strengthen the recruitment of surgeons to local hospitals. Here, the Directorate of Health has been commissioned by the government to adopt new learning objectives in new specialist training for LAGs. This proposal by the Directorate has also led to some concern. Many fear that there will not be a need for general surgical competence in the services in the future. The new specialist training means that general surgery will no longer be a common training or speciality for Norwegian surgeons. Very few of the surgeons of the future will ensure this competence, and thus very few will be able to watch small and medium-sized hospitals and accept injured patients and perform routine emergency surgery. The specialist training of Lêr is an important subject of professional policy. The Central Party believes that medical specialisation and specialist structure together with the Turnus Scheme, or what was previously called the Turnus Scheme, must be developed both in line with medical developments and in line with society's needs. It's a superlative political responsibility to ensure that it happens. Of course, new specialist training for LAGs also needs to ensure that we have a wide range of skills as a need for local hospitals if we are to have decentralised health services that we have in Norway and ensure local preparedness. It is good that there is a plural note in the setting that points to the need for medical specialist training to take care of the need for general surgery. I'm very happy about that. In addition, I am pleased that the Workers' Party is involved in a joint proposal to issue both a modular solution and a solution with still its own specialty in emergency surgery/general surgery. I refer to the proposals in case No. 3 and proposal No. 2 on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e814	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e819	The Health Directorate has a proposal for new learning objectives in new specialist training, and that is the background to this Document 8 proposal coming from the Centre Party. There should be special training for doctors that can lead to – as the document says – the future lack of surgeons with general surgical competence. One makes a lot of specialties, and then loses a breadth of competence. In fact, the Health Directorate suggests that general surgery should not be a specialty in the future, which could mean that one actually increases the risk in smaller hospitals because one does not have personnel with this particular point of competence to be there. A great deal of responsibility is placed on those who are going to be able to perform soft surgery in the emergency wards, only to be gastrointestinal surgeons. This means that very many patients in small and medium-sized hospitals who are injured may need to be moved to the major trauma centers. But had there been broad competence at the hospital, one could have solved it at a lower level. Acute surgical competence should be available in all emergency hospitals. Good doctors, good tournament doctors, means everything. Widespread competence is important even if we go into a healthcare service with more and more specialists. It also has the Christian People's Party understanding of it, but it must still be a base in the bottom. All special training courses should focus on the need to have emergency and reception skills and to be able to perform simple surgery – this is because it will otherwise destroy some of the preparedness we already have in smaller hospitals, and we need it – also because we have a long-term country. Not maintaining the preparedness by pulverizing the very special education, is causing us to destroy some of the portfolio that is important for a hospital. This is related to some of the things I said in the previous case, that there is an internal connection between general surgery, specialist surgery, anaesthesia, radiology, internal medicine and laboratory services. But the day you're in a trauma or you get an injury, it's the general thing you need right there and then, until the surgeon on the surgical plane comes. It's just this whole thing that makes us have a whole for our patients, and as the Center Party here suggests, we're concerned to ensure that there are educations that take the width into hospitals. This is because we have a readiness in our country where we often have to sort out most of the time in medical wards and in emergency wards where patients are going and what they are going to meet. It is then important to have a competence that is also decentralised and accessible across the country. That's why the Center Party has a good proposal asking us to look at what has been sent from the Health Directorate, if it's possible to do it differently to ensure just the breadth of competence. There is also the background to the proposal of the Christian People's Party on the Tour Service, because if the specialist training starts already while one is on the tour, one in some ways does not have a basis for going into specialist training. It gets very narrow if you don't have learning goals that actually bring you a width of the tour service, which allows you to go into different specialist courses gradually, but have a base at the bottom. It will ensure both good first aid in District Norway and also a width of the newly trained doctor who will choose a different specialisation. I'm addressing proposal No. 1 on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e832	The representative of Olaug V. Bollestad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e837	The Labour Party believes that a good education system, which ensures broad competence, recruitment for both primary and specialist health services and recruitment throughout the country, is necessary to ensure an equivalent and qualitatively good health provision for the whole population. The Workers' Party has registered that the Association of Young Doctors, the Medisin Student Association, the Association of Senior Officials and the Medical Association are critical to the process of developing specialist training. They fear that the proposed learning objectives will contribute to poorer specialist training and that more attention has been paid to the needs of hospitals for flexibility, at the expense of precisely quality. The Labour Party believes that it is not the task of the Storting to adopt learning objectives but encourages the government to take action as soon as possible to anchor the work better, so that the quality of specialist training is consistent with the objectives set for the development of health services. The Labour Party believes that medical development, together with geographical challenges, is a more flexible and forward-looking solution for the training of medical specialists. We believe that modular specialist training will provide the necessary flexibility and prevent rigid dividing lines between different specialists from hindering good practice. The new specialist structure, which is under design, is primarily adapted to large hospitals, with access to many different specialists. Doctors who become specialists in a narrow area will not have sufficient competence to attend smaller hospitals. We still need generalists, both in surgery and in internal medicine. Instead of establishing ever-increasing narrow specialities, modular specialist training will allow for different pathways into a specialist module, and local hospitals with different profiles could have enough surgeons to provide security services. Fortunately, there is a majority in the comments to develop modular specialist education. We are pleased that we think that is very wise. In addition to the majority comments, the Workers' Party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, stands for a similar proposal, asking the government to issue a module that provides doctors with different major surgical specialities with additional speciality in general and emergency surgery, and/or to continue with adjusted speciality in general surgery. Director Lars Vorland of Health Nord says it very precisely: we do not need more medical specialities, but a specialist training that provides security for watchkeeping in smaller hospitals, without many more doctors being needed. The working party is positive that turnaround candidates have to apply for the posts. We believe it provides an increased opportunity for newly educated people to choose a future career path, and hospitals can develop recruitment policies tailored to local priorities and profiles. If there are obvious improvements, they should be implemented before the evaluation in 2018. One input we've received is to involve the municipalities in the local additions, making the primary health field more visible to the tour applicants. Today, only the hospitals are carrying out the recruitment process.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e854	The structure of specialist medical training has remained virtually unchanged for many years, despite major changes in specialist health services. Specialist training is now being reprogrammed and modernised. The conversion will help to ensure that education is more consistent with the needs of patients and healthcare and that we still have high specialist skills. Increased knowledge and requirements for specific procedural skills have led to a breakdown into new specialities and border specialities. Today's specialist training reflects the needs of the traditional thirds of hospital activity, with departments for internal medicine, surgery and X-ray. There has been a raging development. When I myself worked in a hospital, and a breast was removed during breast surgery, you were in three weeks – today this is actually several places of day surgery. So development is ripping, and it's about new and improved operating methods. The proposers in this document 8 fear that new learning objectives in specialist training may lead to the lack of general surgeons by Norway, and they indicate that there is insufficient consistency between medical training and the needs of specialist health services. The new training scheme provides for modular specialist training in three parts. The first part is today's tour service. Part two is common to groups of intrinsic and surgical specialities — that is, the general one. Part three is specialisation that is unique to the individual speciality. Proposals for learning objectives for the parts two and three of the surgical specialities, i.e. the general and the special, have been consulted by the Directorate for Health, and the proposals have been drawn up by the Specialities Committees of the Medical Association. The starting point is that general surgery is performed as a separate specialty. Part two of surgery is intended to provide the necessary broad competence for common surgical conditions for most surgical specialities. The learning objectives of the specialty of gastro-surgery shall make the specialists competent to conduct a self-monitoring activity in a general surgical unit with trauma receptors. The Committee points out that the treatment at national health and hospital level showed that demography leads to a change in the pattern of disease and that it is important for specialists with broad competence in the front, both in specialist and community health services. We're going to have a decentralised hospital structure in Norway, which has been stressed several times here today. We need both large and small hospitals to ensure equivalent services in the country, although the design of the offer will be somewhat different. The conversion must therefore take account of this, and the various medical specialities must support this objective. The doctors shall be able to deal with patients with complex issues and have the competence to understand and address the whole. This implies that specialist training must include balances between peak and latitude competence and must be easily changeable in line with medical and other developments. This is the reason why the Workers' Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left ask the Ministry to assess whether the new specialist training meets the need for generalist competence in surgery and internal medicine adequately. The right considers that the Ministry must assess, and not be imposed by the Stortinget, the establishment of different modules in the field of specialist training. Now we're talking about general surgery, another time it could be something else. The development of medical specialities is a dynamic process. It must take place in dialogue between the professional communities and the Health Directorate, which has decision-making powers. It's kind of strange that the Storting should go in and define learning goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e875	In the hands of the doctor we are admitted that the treating doctor is competent, well trained, alert and rested. Thus, both education, specialities and tour services are important elements to make sure that you are in the best hands when you need qualitative good medical care one or more times in your life. We also have two representative proposals for treatment here today, which address both an individual educational speciality in emergency surgery, measures to strengthen the recruitment of surgeons to the local hospitals and the rotation system for doctors. The Party of Progress believes that the specialist training of doctors must be dynamic and adapted to changes in the picture of the disease, the needs of patients and the development of medical technology. In fact, specialist medical training is now being modernised, with a focus on learning objectives in line with the needs of patients and services with objectives of continuing robust specialist healthcare skills. In the new specialist training scheme, the first part covers practical service for 12 months in the specialist health service and then six months in the municipal health and care service. The second part of the education covers practical service and other learning activities for groups of specialities, while the third part of the training covers practical service and other learning activities for each speciality. Medical development, together with geographical challenges, means that we need a flexible and forward-looking solution for training medical specialists in this country. Module-based specialist training will have the necessary flexibility, in addition to preventing distinctions between specialities from standing in the way of good solutions. The regulation sets a clear and good framework for the new scheme. It is not appropriate to create uncertainty by reverting education back to the old system. It is a politically important task to ensure a high level of competence through the training of health professionals. Therefore, the education system and the tour service must ensure an equivalent offer of specialist health services to the population. This is why both the quality of education and recruitment throughout the country must be ensured, which is essential for future patient safety, patient provision and preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e894	This matter is in a good way linked to the debate we have had earlier today, on the structure of hospitals and the division of work between large and small hospitals. But when it comes to how detailed the Storting is going to be in determining specialist training in the hospital sector, the Left is probably a little skeptical about how far down in what we here in the Stortinget are going, because, as several representatives have been involved, there is a development here – both medically-technological and competent – that requires some flexibility. But, as has also been pointed out in the debate earlier today, there is a need to keep the big and small ones together, and there is some of the structure we are also discussing here. What is needed in a smaller hospital, and what do the large hospitals need in terms of volume, capacity and competence? On the left hand side, we support the fact that we are continuing with modular training, and that it must be a little independent of the time we are in. But when it comes to recruitment, it's an important discussion. Today, seven out of ten applicants for the medical study are women. The number will probably be eight out of ten in the future. We also see the trend in the health sector. This may lead to some practical challenges throughout the education cycle, which are now in the process of spanning over a period of up to 15 years for some, from the start of the medical study until they are fully trained as a specialist. In order to establish a family and to be responsible for child rearing, a person may face some challenges. We have decided to establish permanent posts for younger doctors under specialisation. So employment is part of this debate that we have to follow closely, and something that we can't leave to the individual to navigate forward, in a little random and unpredictable game about who gets which places, and what occasion for specialization you get. In addition, when health enterprises want flexibility to play on, it is not certain that the sum of this will be the best for the population and overall preparedness. So we have to keep an eye on the fact that health businesses provide the permanent jobs and predictability needed by the younger doctors to take the necessary specialist training. That's essentially the most important thing. Then we also need the capacity for tour sites, and the discussion we have had earlier today, about the number of hospitals and what content it should be in those hospitals, is also part of it. For those who need quantifiable training, it may be that a small hospital provides both width and quantity as much as a large and specialised hospital, where a rarer is on guard. This is an example of a lot associated with quite a lot, but where the Storting should be careful about detailing. This is also linked to a debate on the committee and department to which this should be anchored. We're discussing a lot of what's within the education committee, in terms of training, and we're also bringing in public health and municipal responsibility for providing places. So this is a little cross-border, and it's important that we keep the thread, but it's also important that we increasingly discuss health-related competences and capabilities within the Health and Care Committee and the Ministry of Health and Welfare, so that this is linked and not too fragmented in the administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e911	After a long period of preparation, specialist medical training is now being modernised. The training shall be consistent with the patient and the service needs and shall continue to ensure a high level of specialist competence in Norwegian healthcare. In the future, more emphasis is placed on learning objectives, on what doctors should be able to do and on guidance and supervision. Training activities shall be carried out in a systematic and quality-assured manner in the day-to-day activities of the service. In the light of a previous request decision in Stortinget, the Ministry has followed up the case. The Health Directorate was asked to investigate the case and prepare several reports, which have been at the hearing. The main elements of the Directorate’s investigation were largely disrupted. The matter has also been brought before the Stortinget on several occasions. The new regulation was on broad consultation in the autumn of 2016 and entered into force on 1 March this year. Employment in the position of part 1 of the new training is now under way. Hospitals are preparing to receive doctors into the new scheme in a good way during the harvest. The regulation sets a clear and good framework for the new system, and it is not appropriate to create uncertainty by reversing education back to the old system. Conversion of specialist training is an extensive work that will last for several years. Much will go into the new scheme. It may be appropriate to make some adjustments and changes in the long term, but not to go back to the old one. The Health Directorate’s assessment is that the prescribed learning objectives for Part 1 cover the requirements for required broad knowledge and procedures to be available to the physician. The Directorate has been open to some adjustment to the learning objectives if significant aspects have arisen after the consultation round. Proposals for major changes must be sent to the hearing. It will also be possible to make use of experience from the first phase of Part 1. With regard to the proposal to amend the rotational space allocation procedures, it appears that in due course the conversion was carried out in broad consultation with the actors concerned. The assessment then was that the call that now applies was most appropriate. It is also intended that a new tour scheme will be evaluated in 2018. In this context, addition procedures, including the award of posts, will also be considered. With regard to the number of posts in Part 1, these must correspond to the needs we have in the service. With regard to the second proposal for a representative related to the surgical specialities, the new arrangements provide for modular specialist training in three parts, where part 1 corresponds to the current tour service. Part 2 is common to groups of intrinsic and surgical specialities. In Part 3, the specialisation is unique to the individual specialist. The proposal for learning objectives for the surgical specialities, Parts 2 and 3, has been at the hearing of the Directorate-General for Health. The proposals are drawn up by the Medical Association's specialist committees. The starting point is that general surgery is performed as a separate specialty. Part 2 of surgery is intended to provide the necessary broad competence for common surgical conditions for several surgical specialities. The learning objectives of the specialties of gastro-surgery shall make the specialists competent to go independently behind the general surgical unit with trauma receptors. There is a discussion in the surgical discipline around the specialist structure of the surgical profession. The discussion discusses how to maintain the necessary general emergency surgical competence to cover the 24-hour shift in small and medium-sized hospitals. Various proposals have been launched. The Medical Association has asked the Health Directorate to determine whether to maintain a specific speciality in general surgery profiled against acute surgery in addition to the specialty of gastro-surgery. Representatives of the Central Party have changed their original proposal to establish a specialty in emergency surgery in the suspension. They now propose, together with the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, to ask the government to start an investigation of a module that ensures that doctors with different major surgical specialities can have additional speciality in general and acute surgery. Alternatively, these representatives propose the continuation of the specialty of general surgery with adjusted contents against general surgery and acute surgery, in line with the proposal of the Medical Association. I fully support the objective that the specialist structure for surgeons should support the need for the small emergency hospitals, but on a general basis, I believe that the creation of several surgical specialities often does not reduce the challenges, but on the contrary creates the need for new shifts. The development of medical specialities is a dynamic process which must take place in dialogue between the professional communities and the Health Directorate, where the Directorate for Health has decision-making powers. The Directorate has informed me that they will review the specialist surgical structure as part of the work on learning objectives for Part 2 and Part 3 of the specialist training.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e937	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e942	There is a common comitology in the configuration where the Committee asks the government to assess whether the new specialist training is adequate for the need for generalist competence in the field of surgery and internal medicine. My question is how the Council of State will follow up that remark, and whether he thinks that what has been proposed by the Directorate of Health is what we are asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e949	I believe that that comment very much underlines what is also the mission of the development of the new specialist structure, which is a prerequisite for this to work. However, with regard to the specific content and definition of the modules, I believe that there are primarily professional issues best addressed in cooperation between the parties involved and the Health Directorate. I also want to warn you that one is helping to break this up so much that it actually involves even more specialities, more guards in hospitals and greater challenges in securing the preparedness of the smaller hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e954	I'm assuming that the Council of State may agree that there's a little bit special about a new specialty in emergency surgery, general surgery, because we've had it before. This would lead to fewer shifts and the need for fewer shifts, so this proposal is a bit in a special position. I want to ask the Council of State: I understand that he is doubtful about going in and conducting this more clearly, but how can he say, when the government has in the government platform that a new specialty in emergency and reception medicine should be introduced? There was a purely political introduction, but there was no demand from the professional community. When there's a pretty strong signal from Stortinget here, I'm going to assume that the government can do the same job when it comes to this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e961	I don't think I'm completely familiar with saying that there was no demand from the professional community to establish a specialty in emergency and reception medicine. I think the representative has also met and heard that demand. One has just found a solution in cooperation between the directorate and the different professional communities. These are questions that always create discussion, and there are several models that are now being discussed. I think it's wise, what the majority suggests, that these are issues that are best resolved in collaboration between the directorate as a professional authority, the professional organisations of the Medical Association and the other actors who have an interest in these schemes. This will help to maintain a structure with both larger and smaller hospitals in Norway with good emergency services, there is no doubt that it is part of the mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e970	The council said he was busy keeping the structure with small and large hospitals. Then we heard earlier in the debate today that if we were to be ready on a level like in Germany, we would have to have seven more hospitals if we were to talk about those distances etc. So my question to the government council is: now a lot of people specialize, and today Norwegian hospitals are really struggling to get access to gastrointestinal surgeons, we're vacuuming almost Europe to get hold of them. If only those responsible for emergency surgery are responsible, how does the Council of State think he will be able to maintain the decentralised hospital structure while maintaining emergency surgery at the level that has been debated before today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e977	Now the representative asks questions that really go far into the assessments that I think are very professional. But it is a fact that those who are going to be on duty must also have activity in the hospital beyond what they are doing on guard. There must be a basis for recruitment and development. The assessment underlying that proposal – originally from the Medical Association's Specialist Committee and with which the Health Directorate has continued to work – was that it was the gastrosurgery that was the watch-keeping surgical competence, precisely because it is the major surgical areas in today's hospital. It is also important for the recruitment of the watchkeeping profession, while one sees challenges in being able to recruit for a general surgical competence in the future. But these are very professional questions that I think are best suited to be resolved in a collaboration between the Health Directorate and the professional organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e984	The cord shift is over. The called alternate of the Aust-Agder County, Lene Langemyr, now takes the seat. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e996	I need to make some clarifications about what has been said. Several have addressed this with modular specialist training. I think it's right to distinguish between what's the new specialist training, which is modular in parts 1, 2 and 3, and no one has said that they're not for, but now there's a question of securing general surgery by creating an additional module, and then the question is whether it should be done by creating an additional module or continuing to have a specialty in general surgery against acute surgery. That's what the Central Party's original proposal was. We're doing it because it was a expressed wish from, for example. Younger Army Association and Norwegian Surgical Association. The Medical Association has also asked for an extension of specialization in general surgery with an adjusted content against general surgery and emergency surgery. That was our suggestion. In order to get a broader minority in the Committee on this matter, we have come up with a joint proposal with the Labour Party, where both a modular scheme and a speciality should be worked out. Our point is that this is fine that we don't decide in Stortinget, but we're going to be clear that specialization of lizards must be of general surgical competence. Whether it's a modular arrangement or a specialty of its own, or both, is to the extent uninteresting to us. We notice that these different associations have been more keen on their own speciality, but they also say that this has to be done. Then I react that some give the impression that this is something that we should not adopt in Stortinget. I put it in the line that it's kind of random what time we're going to mean something about medical specialization and not. The government platform says that one should create its own specialty in emergency and reception medicine. How desired it was might be discussed. At least it's got some criticism afterwards, but now it might have countries in a good way. But my point is that this is set up as a point in a government platform. Well, Stortinget has said something about this before – the red-green government announced in the 2012 news that there was going to be a specialty in anti-drugs and reception medicine. It was very well received throughout the whole Storting, and no one said anything about the Storting cannot mean anything about this. And then one of them said by a regulation that this is supposed to let the Health Directorate decide for itself. But at least I'm happy with what has come out of the clarification in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1011	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1027	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to the rapporteur and 3 minutes to the other political groups. In addition, five minutes are proposed to members of the Government and, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows are given, with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1038	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on this matter. Giving blood is giving something of itself, one pint at a time. We must keep in mind that this whole scheme is based on thousands of Norwegians volunteering to help others. Therefore, it is our responsibility to ensure that this important common resource is managed as appropriately as possible. The proposers address an important theme, and I believe that everyone, perhaps with the exception of some religious groups, agrees with the objective of ensuring adequate and safe access to blood and blood products through appropriate organisation. An overall committee agrees that this is important, but we do not support the measures outlined in the proposal. Through the hearing of the case, the Committee received clear feedback that a more national organisation, or an organisation modelled in the Netherlands, is not the way to go. The establishment of a new identification or register system is also not considered to be imperative. We are behind the Quality Council of the Transfusion Service, which has previously considered it inappropriate to work for such a register, in the light of the cost and work effort towards the uncertainty associated with the importance of such a register for access to donors. Most people donate blood at their local hospital. The proposal from the Left states that a solution should be developed to facilitate across-region blood donation activities, with a national system of registration and bottling. This must be viewed against the resources such a system will require. When both blood establishments and bio engineers are as clear as they are that this is not the way to go, the majority of the committee has chosen not to support the proposal. It is important that specialist healthcare continues to be responsible for access to blood and blood products, and it is in our view best that this is organised regionally. The right agrees that it is important to recruit donors. It is only to refer to the increased appropriations for this purpose in the State budget of the last few years. There is also every reason to commend the efforts of the Red Cross in this area. GiBlod.no, together with the efforts of healthcare companies, gives us good access to blood donors in Norway. With the signals we have received through the committee's examination of the case, and based on feedback from health regions, we have found that blood banking in Norway is working well. That is why we do not support the proposal which is now under consideration. However, I would like to thank the proposers for the review of today's system that the matter has led. Improvement potential has been demonstrated. I take it for granted that it is followed up by management and health businesses. Blood banks are important not just because they receive and manage donated blood. Their competence and preparedness are also important in the ongoing treatment of patients in hospitals in Norway. It alone argues that this activity should be organised regionally. In any case, I would encourage the Council of State to look at how best to organise this business with the utmost importance for the eye, namely good access to blood and blood products throughout the country, based on voluntary donors.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1061	Like the rapporteur, I would like to thank the proposers, because with this matter the Committee has been informed of an important part of the specialist health service, which is represented by the blood banking industry. Blood establishments not only provide treatment for blood but also provide medical guidance for clinical departments and primary health services. In addition, blood establishments are active in development and research activities and in the training of bio engineers and medical specialists. For the Workers' Party, it is more important to strengthen regional blood establishments, not to centralise their activities. Short-way to service and good competence are often critical factors in good patient care. The Labour Party does not support the proposal to establish a national system, but, on the other hand, sees the need for a national blood-rescue plan. As a result of the great distances we have here in this country, we need to secure ourselves in both military conflicts and civil disasters. We have to take into account that logistics lines can be blocked due to lack of air domination, weather conditions, blocked roads, enemy infrastructure destruction, etc. There is no national overview of the amount of blood products available. Platelets are fresh with a shelf life of seven days and therefore local emergency blood donor corps must be established in all hospitals. Health Bergen, for example, has developed, in cooperation with the Defence Agency, blood donation models that can also be implemented in prehospital services. This work should be further developed. The working party welcomes the development of a strategy to maintain and recruit new donors. Studies show that most people want to give blood locally, near their place of residence or work. It is today a good cooperation with the Red Cross, but the recruitment work should be more focused. Wide campaigns give few new donors, and there is a lot more work in testing people who can't give blood, but also unnecessary extra stress for those who want to give blood, but who haven't got the requirements to give it. During the hearing, it was also found that in January of this year the Health Directorate closed the project group that had been working on the revision of today’s blood donation legislation since 2015. The aim was to develop national electronic guidelines specifically for improving recruitment and maintaining blood donors. I, the undersigned, have asked the Minister for Health about this and received a reply that this is within the priorities of the Directorate for Health. I'm going to follow it up more closely during the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1076	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers for putting the search light on something as life-giving as blood. Unfortunately, too little attention is attached to the fact that lack of blood can actually pose a preparedness risk. Without blood, no life! It's probably worth remembering the popular artist Wenche Myhre, who in a time gone by performed the butcher We live. I still remember one verse line: «For life we shall fight, as long as blood passes through us». For the sake of those attending this debate, I did not choose to sing. We have a blood donor system based on volunteering and zero profit, and it's a nice model. But unfortunately, there are too few of us who donate blood in the 69 donor places that are approved for this, and who pass the blood on to one of the 30 different and approved blood establishments here to the country. In fact, we are in the bottom of Europe when it comes to making people give blood. About 100,000 Nordics gave blood in 2015. The goal must be to get more people to give blood, without having to lure with financial alms to get it done. I think blood donation must be given greater attention as early as school age, so that children see the benefits and the value of becoming blood donors themselves in adulthood. With several donors, we will be able to reduce the need for the import of blood from commercial loss. Today there is an import need of approx. 90,000 liters of blood from all over the world. In order to increase the recruitment of donors, the State budget for 2015 and 2016 granted 1 million respectively. and 3 million. to the work of the Red Cross. The subsidy has also been continued in the State budget of the year. A broad majority of the Committee is committed to strengthening blood preparedness in peace, crisis and war through regional blood establishments. There seems to be good cooperation between companies, and so far there is no evidence that operations have had to be delayed due to lack of blood. Like several other parties, the Advance Party can also understand the desire for a national blood-preparation plan in Norway, among others. having regard to the fact that at present there is no national list of the quantities of blood products available at all times. However, national coordination of blood donation through a national registry and the use of blood cards will require both regulatory and regulatory adjustments, and there is also uncertainty about the cost of establishing such a system. Thus, it may seem that blood donation should continue to take place in the context of specialist health services and on the basis of regional organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1091	July 22 showed us how important it is that we have blood and blood products available when there is a major civil crisis. It is our responsibility as national politicians to ensure that we can manage that preparedness in the future. The very concrete thing about this is that we continue to increase the will to give blood, and that we reduce the need to import, because this also has to do with some ethics. Is it true of us, who have such good access to money, to import blood from someone who is in lack of it? Among other things, the United States is offering money to donors. There is uncertainty about the quality of money as a means of payment. In terms of organisation and priority, I'm going to admit, on the Left's side, that this is also an input to the debate on organisation. For example, one in Spain has organised the donor activities for bodies in a national enterprise. Spain is the world’s best donor and transplant provider. If we look at the Netherlands, we have a choice to organise the blood donor function in a national foundation, a national enterprise. So there's other ways to do it than to use the four regional health companies to cooperate. When it comes to digitisation, we see that there are challenges related to cooperation between the four regional health businesses. Not least we see that Health South-East has chosen a completely different path from the three others. It is also a matter of priority, for this has not been a matter for the Health and Welfare Committee in almost four years, before the Left promoted this proposal, other than when the Left has made proposals to increase the allocation to the Red Cross in order to recruit more donors. In a price-sensitive way, we've got a majority for that. There's a need to look at the possibilities we have. This is a knowledge sector that also needs some attention from the four directors of regional health enterprises. Today it is to be quite far down on the list. The need for research and development is definitely there. There are also business-related opportunities here, because why should we import so many blood products when we could export instead? We have a large knowledge infrastructure that educates people to operate that type of business, but which is now very little developed. When it comes to recruitment, we need to recruit more minorities as well. It's one of the more specific challenges we have, and we have to discuss more.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1110	Does the representative, Mr Kjeseth, wish to make suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1115	I'm sorry, President. Then I would like to raise, on behalf of the Left, the proposals we are promoting with others or alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1120	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1125	Proposals include an important area in which the government agrees: ensuring adequate and safe access to blood and blood products through appropriate organisation. The question is what action should be taken to get this done. In order to establish a national system for the recording and collection of donors, with a bank ID for blood banks, legislative and regulatory changes are necessary. In the past, the Quality Council of the Transfusion Service has considered it inappropriate to work on such a register, in the light of the cost and workload versus the uncertainty relating to the impact such a register would actually have on the access of donors. Blood donation is a planned activity, in which most give blood regularly at their local hospital. Representatives propose that solutions be developed to facilitate blood donation across regions, with a national system of registration and bottling. In this case, a thorough assessment of how much this will improve the blood donation system must be made, against the cost of establishing and operating such a system. I am in favour of measures that can improve the recruitment and management of donors across the health business structure, but I believe that this should be done within the framework of specialist health services based on a regional organisation. There is a need to recruit several donors in Norway. Here is Norway's Red Cross an important partner for the blood establishments. The Red Cross actively engages in local voluntary associations, and the donors who work via the GiBlod.no website. The Directorate for Health manages a State grant related to the increased recruitment of donors, and the State budget for 2015 and 2016 granted 1 million respectively. NOK 3 million. kr for increased recruitment of donors through the work of the Red Cross. The grant was continued in the State budget for 2017. There is good work in blood establishments to ensure recruitment, and many blood banks have good access to donors. In Health Mid-Norway, there is an established solution that allows donors to donate blood within the region. It is done by transferring information on donors electronically between blood establishments, so that they do not notify themselves again if they switch blood banks or want to donate blood at another blood bank in the region. In the Health West, a regional plan for laboratory medicine has recently been adopted and a joint regional ICT system for blood banks is under acquisition. This will contribute to increased coordination between the blood establishments in the region in terms of both training, procedures and mutual assistance and acquisitions. I believe that the work of the Red Cross blood donor program today through its campaigns, the GiBlod.no website and the experience of blood banks, is a good starting point to build on. I therefore believe that there is no need for a national strategy to increase the recruitment of donors. The good work done can be improved locally through closer cooperation between the Red Cross and regional health businesses, where necessary. The feedback I have received from health regions suggests that blood banking operates well regionally, and that there is no need to centralise the business. Blood establishments not only supply blood products, they also have the competence to deal with individual patients in ongoing clinical activities. Here, proximity to the service is a critical factor. It is therefore important that the blood establishment is part of the multidisciplinary team in a hospital, and is available 24/7. The strength of today’s hospital organisation is close cooperation between many actors in the meeting with individual patients with complex needs, under joint management and with joint funding. There are several things that speak for a more organised interaction between blood establishments in Norway. Therefore, I believe that we need to start by assessing how to improve today's model and how to strengthen cooperation both regionally and nationally, before launching an investigation into a model for blood management by model from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1146	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1152	During the consultation, it was found that the Health Directorate has abandoned the project group to look at new frameworks and to revise the existing guidelines. I have followed up with a written question where the Minister's reply indicates that it is up to the Health Directorate to give priority. But then I have made contact with the professional community, and it turns out that all adults can report as donors, and that the professional community needs evidence-based guidelines, so that the testing and quality of the blood product is ensured. This has been introduced in both Australia, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and a number of other countries. Why will we not complete the work that had been done so well and that was almost done, so that we can ensure that we have the quality of future blood products that are desirable?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1159	As I replied to Mr Grung in a written answer to the question, this work in Norway is also based on the international work of which Norway is part, for example. in the EU. The Health Directorate set up a working group on its own initiative — it was not a mission from the Ministry — and they have also chosen not to give priority to carrying out that work at present, based on their own assessment. I believe that it is the Health Directorate who has a full overview and the ability to prioritize their tasks within the framework that the Stortinget has given them, and the letter of assignment they have received from the Department. The directorate says they'll take this up again when they think it's right to give priority to it compared to the other tasks that the directorate has.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1166	As the representative Grung asked questions about this now, the Health Directorate has stopped its work, in practice, with further improvement. There's a little lag in reporting here. With the answers that Stortinget has now received, we are creating a zero vision of blood banking in Norway – we really have no ambitions beyond what we are doing today, and that that is good enough. Assuming that the Council of State itself has participated in a government statement to say that they are to wind up the four regional health establishments, there must have been some thinking about how to organise this at national level. The question is: is the Council satisfied with a zero vision in this important area?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1173	I probably don't agree with the description that it's a zero vision -- neither on the basis of the answer I gave to the committee, nor of the post I now made in the room. The size has prioritised a rather sharp increase in the means of recruiting donors, which is done in good and close cooperation with the Red Cross, which reaches out to many people. There are not always reorganisations that produce new results. In the political environment, it may be an excessive belief that reorganization will produce new results. Sometimes it's about making the job better within the organisational structures you already have, and using the forces on it instead of on major reorganisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1180	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1198	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1207	All children and young people are entitled to equivalent and necessary health care, and the Stortinget has a special responsibility to ensure that it is cared for. Many children have a good offer, but the Committee notes that for many years, there has been a challenge to achieve a good cross-disciplinary systematic cooperation between child protection and various health services. The Committee takes a serious view of the fact that such a large proportion of children and young people under public care in the field of child protection face major health challenges and do not receive the help they need. Research shows that three out of four children and young people in child protection institutions and half of children in foster homes suffer from mental disorders. A number of supervisory reports have demonstrated serious system failure. I particularly highlight the Glasshenta case, the Health Directorate and the Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate’s recommendations on the work on health care for children in child protection and the Children’s Ombudsman’s report on ‘Unlimited care’, on the use of coercion. A number of measures have been taken in recent years and new measures have been promoted and further action has been announced by the government. Various pilot projects have also been launched to test for better interaction between child protection and mental health protection. I particularly highlight cross-border emergency services for children and young people in Kristiansand and joint emergency and investigation services for vulnerable children and young people in the Nord-Trøndelag. The Directorates have also been entrusted with the task of drawing up national presidencies for cooperation agreements, which are to be held this year. The representative proposal has six proposals. No one has been given a majority, and individual parties are given the opportunity to make their views known. While the Labour Party sees the need for a quality reform to ensure that children under the protection of their children receive proper health care, it considers it most appropriate to view health measures as part of the overall follow-up of children under care. Children and families need faster and more adapted health care. The child’s voice shall be heard before decisions are taken. Child protection is one of the most complex and challenging social fields in society. In addition to good competence, targeted organisational, administrative and professional measures are needed to ensure good and proper health care, as well as the necessary follow-up and after-care. At the same time, we need to make sure that children under child protection are not unnecessarily ill. Some diagnostics leading to different and challenging behaviour may have similarities with symptoms as a result of care failure — and vice versa. Quality and referral competence must be improved. The working party believes that greater demands should be placed on the BUP to motivate children for treatment when they obviously need it. It is not acceptable that the BUP can only resolve matters by pointing out that the child does not want treatment, leaving the responsibility for mentally ill children and young people to child protection services. There is a need for more daily seats in the BUP with relevant professional competence. It should be considered to provide for the opening of exemptions from the 18-year rule on the DPS if they can provide adequate health care. Health needs to be less rigid and more based on individual needs. It is not sustainable to place suicidal young people in behavioural institutions without staff competent to care for them. Research shows that children’s protection is often vulnerable for a longer period of time, but that they achieve the same treatment outcomes as others with close and longer follow-up. Subsequent protection must be given priority, and young people should be actively informed of the right to assistance and care until they are 23 years old. In conclusion, the Labour Party will state that it is absolutely necessary that we be able to ensure that children and young people in the field of child protection are provided with a comprehensive range of health services, effective participation and effective legal certainty. No children choose their parents or superiors. A good childhood you carry with you your whole life, it's also a bad childhood. Preventing children from failing to care and taking proper action to the best of the child is one of the most important things we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1243	For years we have been aware that too few children who grow up under the responsibility of child protection are doing well in adulthood. Of course, this is mainly because many of these children have had a difficult or tough start to life, but it is also about the fact that child protection measures are too rarely able to replace growing up in their own families under good conditions. With a tough start to life, health challenges also follow. The Glasshenta case was a new reminder that not all children and young people have received the right and necessary health care. I think we've all met and talked to people who can tell about how tough it is not to be able to grow up in their own family as most people do. Many children also believe that they have done something wrong or have been bad. The main challenge has been the lack of inter-disciplinary and systematic cooperation between child protection and different health services. This is why in recent years a number of good and necessary measures have been taken to ensure better health care for children. The government has made many proposals, and more is at work. Health care professionals are required in all child protection institutions to ensure cooperation with the local health service and the specialist health service. All regional health establishments are required to establish child protection officers at the BUP and to provide structure and procedures to ensure that children in child protection institutions are investigated and treated for mental and drug dependence. It is also mandated to establish a Home Hospital Model from 2018 at selected child protection institutions for children with particularly high mental needs, and it is expected that the implementation of package pathways for mental health and health care could contribute to better interaction between services. Ambulance services will be an alternative for those who do not want to go to outpatient clinics, and these services shall also be able to provide guidance to employees of child protection institutions. I am very pleased with the close cooperation that the Minister for Children and the Minister for Health has put in place for these vulnerable children, as challenges in this matter, as in many other cases, are about the lack of interaction between trade unions. This cooperation has already resulted in new actions being planned or already under way. We're sitting on a lot of experience and a lot of reports and we know a lot about where and how the system fails. Further action is now needed in line with measures already adopted or planned. Current directorates have been entrusted with the task of developing national leadership for new cooperation agreements between municipal and state children's protection, community health and specialist health services. It is important that children who grow up under the care of child protection experience growth as similar to that of other children as possible. These are children who know very well that they are different, and it is therefore important to focus on not making them more different than necessary. Follow-up from own fixed and ordinary services should therefore be used as far as possible. Strengthening of outpatient BUP services in child protection institutions will be an important contribution. The establishment of follow-up teams for users with complex needs will also provide for children with challenging health needs. More measures have already been put in place to ensure that children with child protection are properly identified for their needs and mental health status as well as for the health care they need. There is reason to stress that child protection has its own right of referral to mental health protection. The child protection service shall cooperate with the other services from which the child receives action, and a child in need of coordinated health care, like all other children, will be entitled to an individual level. Like nurses, the party of progress is skeptical about the concept of ‘child protection’ because it can help to strengthen the distinction between children in child protection and other children. I am pleased that the large majority in this room are concerned about this issue, but also that we agree that many good steps are now taken. The Progress Party therefore does not support any of the minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1279	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers. It is simply not acceptable that children and young people in public care face major health challenges and do not get the help they need. We can only think of "Glassjenta" as it's been talking about many times in this room. That is why the Christian People's Party supports and is involved in four of the proposals of the Central Party. We are promoting these proposals because we believe that even more measures are needed to ensure that children are protected and that they receive the health care they need. There are several comprehensive measures already planned and in place to provide children and young people with good care and necessary mental health care at child protection institutions. That's good, but in NOU 2016: 16 New Child Protection Act – Ensuring children's right to care and protection is one of the recommendations to seek out a child health reform to clarify responsibilities and bring about better coordination between child protection and mental health care as well as drug care. We agree with the sample and therefore promote a proposal in which we ask the government to carry out such reform and come back to the Storting appropriately. The Christian People's Party and the Central Party also call on the Government today to promote a case of legislating cooperation agreements between child protection, health institutions and municipalities requiring content, including procedures at cross-sectoral locations, and a dispute resolution system. We propose that because we believe it is essential to establish such agreements. This is the grip recommended by the Swedish Children’s Protection Act Committee and others. The system we have today, with medical follow-up from the regular service offer, has proved to fail the children in the care of child protection. We are therefore also promoting a proposal asking the government to set up a child-rescue system to strengthen the general care services of child-rescue institutions. Linking a doctor to child-restraint institutions does not prevent the decision-maker from following up a child. Children in institutions need better health care than they do today, and the Christian People's Party believes that an outreach health service with the relevant skills can be a good response. The Christian People's Party and the Centre also promote a proposal to ask the government to improve the availability of mental health services for children and young people in the municipality, for example by: to establish follow-up teams for children and young people with complex needs, to use recruitment grants to community psychologists to strengthen the provision of services to children in the field of child protection and to continue wage subsidies for staff undergoing further training in the field of drugs and psychiatry. The Christian People's Party believes that the proposals of the Directorates are good and that there is a great need for improvement today. When the Christian People's Party does not vote for the proposal to legislate that the child's needs and mental health should always be carefully monitored at the time of placement, it is because we are unsure whether lawmaking is a right instrument. I think that an important point is not to delay placements. On the other hand, there are many examples of children’s mental health and needs not being monitored and informed about before placement. It is fundamentally incomprehensible to me that we as the authority are not dealing with this in a better way. When we go to the step that we take care of a child, when we know how much is needed for a child to be taken out of a home, how much pain and suffering can lie behind, and when we know how much stress the move itself is for a child, we have to be sure that we know enough about how the child is doing, that the children get the help and care they need, and that those who are taking over the child are well informed about the child's health and care needs. When we do not vote for the proposal for an individual plan, it is because the Christian People's Party believes that the legal right to an individual level is respected. However, we believe it is important that cooperation between different sectors and service providers be improved, and the use of the individual plan is an instrument that can be exploited much better. Then the President knows what proposals we're going into, and which we're outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1302	The representative of Olug V. Bollestad has taken up the suggestions she has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1307	Children in child protection have the same right to the necessary health care as other children. It is well documented that a large proportion of children with child protection interventions also have a high incidence of mental illness and a combined need for health services. Research shows that three out of four children and young people in child protection institutions and half of the children in foster homes suffer from mental disorders. At the same time, there are clear indications that the health supply to this group is inadequate. This was also taken into account by the National Council on Quality and Priority of Health in a decision taken on 3 December 2015. The centre party believes that special measures are necessary to ensure that children in child protection are entitled to basic health care. Specific solutions are needed to ensure that healthcare for this group is adapted and available. It's true, as it says in the setting, that for too many years this has been an area where we haven't guaranteed these children what they're entitled to. In the so-called Glasshenta saka, referred to by many here, and in the County Supervisory Report, one – raw and brutal – concluded that the girl, called Ida, has not been brought up and cared for in line with what society has stated that children should have. The supervisory report from County State is the worst supervisory report I have ever read. The supervisory report concluded that several institutions have not provided services in accordance with the requirements of the laws. This applies not only to services in the field of child protection, but also to the provision of health services. When we see what that girl said about the BUP, it's almost impossible to understand that there was a health supply she had been in. Following a press release from the government dated 9 January 2017, all child protection institutions shall have their own health officer. From the autumn of 2017, there shall also be child protection officers in mental health protection for children and young people; separate care and treatment institutions for children in need of outside care shall be established and models of better cooperation between municipal and state child protection, municipalities and specialist health services shall be developed. These measures, which two state councils share, are very good. It's great that something's happening, and we'll fully support this. Nevertheless, when we present this proposal for a representative, it is because we believe that the measures must be strengthened, and we also refer to the report that the two Directorates have given, with their recommendations. It is not all the proposals that have been followed up by the government, which we think should have been. We ask the government to fully finance a child health reform, in line with the recommendation in NOU 2016:16, and to present a case to the Stortinget in its own way. We suggest that a child-rescue system be established to strengthen the general medical services of child-rescue institutions. The report shows that only 20 pst. in the last three months, although we know that over 70 pst. they have at least one mental illness. We propose to legislate a cooperation agreement between child protection, health institutions and municipalities, with content requirements, including procedures for cross-sectoral placements and a dispute resolution system. And we ask the government to improve the availability of mental health services for children and young people in municipalities, among other things. by establishing municipal follow-up teams for children and young people with complex needs and using the recruitment initiative of community psychologists to address these children and other measures. We propose to legislate that children’s needs and mental health should always be carefully monitored by placement in foster homes and childcare facilities. We have changed the proposal a little, and we have received input from the Trade Union that there can be a deadline for this to be implemented. The reason for this proposal is that too many children and young people go for years without this being properly monitored. We also want to strengthen the use of individual planes. When it comes to the creation by the government of own child-care and treatment institutions, it has been discussed for many years. We can agree to it, but this is an offer for the most seriously ill. It will continue to be a major need for better cooperation between the BUP and child protection for those with less serious disease. With this, I'm taking up the proposals from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1328	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1333	I agree with the description on which the representatives have based the proposals. There have been positive developments in recent years, but we know that many child-restraints still do not receive sufficient help. This applies both to the municipal health and care services and to the specialist health services. We have a lot of knowledge about where it fails. Now action is needed, and further investigations seem not appropriate. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the Ministry of Health and Welfare have been gripping the areas where it fails the most. Of course, financing needs will be assessed in the context of the annual budgetary procedures. As the proposers point out, a number of measures have been launched by the government: In 2016, we introduced health care professionals in child protection institutions, and this year, child protection officers were required to provide mental health protection for children and young people. These two arrangements shall be a link between the services and ensure the necessary cooperation. Health regions were commissioned in 2015 to provide structures and procedures to ensure that children in child-rescue institutions receive the necessary investigation and treatment for mental and drug dependence. From 2018 we set up a home hospital model at selected child protection institutions for children with particularly high mental needs. This is a cooperation between the health regions, the BUF Directorate and the Health Directorate. From next year, we will conduct a package process for mental health and drug use. This should contribute to better interaction between services. The Directorates are working on national leadership for cooperation agreements between municipal and state children’s protection and between the municipal health service and the specialist health service. These will be completed in 2017. The government will present a mental health strategy in August. Here, children and young people will have a clear place. The strategy shall form the basis for a stepping-up plan for the mental health of children and young people. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have said that we want to present such an escalation plan in 2018. I have a few comments on the six proposals of the representatives. For proposal No 1: After consultation with the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, we do not recommend that a child health reform be investigated now. We believe that the measures put in place are, overall, quite comprehensive. We have also considered proposal No. 2, on a child-rescue doctor in child-rescue institutions. So far, we have concluded that the ordinary services will provide a much more stable and better follow-up over time. In particular, users with complex and long-term problems need a permanent doctor who knows the whole story. Children's protection institutions are small, and an attending child-restraint doctor could cause the child to lose his or her place of residence. In the amendment proposal, Prop. 75 L for 2016-2017, to be discussed by the Stortinget in June, we propose to clarify the responsibilities of municipal health and care services for children located outside the home under the Child Protection Act. In concrete terms, the proposal is that as long as a child stays in a municipality and care for the child is taken care of by an alternative location in the municipality, the responsibility lies with the municipal health and care services in that municipality. I assume that the mission of new cooperation agreements between child protection and health covers the intentions of proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox I want to assess whether there is a need for law enforcement when we have seen the result of the assignments given. In the primary health service notification, we recommend that municipalities establish follow-up teams for users with complex needs, cf. proposal No 4th@item: inlistbox The Health Directorate is now working with a municipal counsellor where follow-up teams are involved. The salary subsidy for municipal psychologists continued in 2017, and we aim to ensure that the requirement of psychological competence is legalised from 2020. In order to meet the need for better investigations, the Directorates have been given the task of developing models and systems for this, including studies in the field of mental health. Implementation is planned in 2018. After consulting the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, I recommend not to legislate on a right to monitoring, as set out in proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox We believe that existing and proposed measures cover the need as child protection services can already include mental health in their expert judgements, and they also have the right to refer to mental health protection for children and young people. It is important that cooperation between the various sectors is improved and that the voice of the user is made clear. I take note of proposal No. 6, to strengthen an individual plan, which will be an instrument to achieve this. It is important that an even better job be done both in the municipalities and in the various departments with which the municipalities will cooperate, because here it is, not only for this group, but for many other groups as well, challenges with the use of individual level as a tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1382	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1388	Children and young people with, for example, far-reaching and other developmental disorders are over-represented in child protection management. Organisations such as: The Autism Association has for years warned about the lack of competence and the inability of child protection to receive both advice and to listen to specialist health services in a number of cases. How does the Council of State think this can be resolved, so that it is the child's best that is in focus, and not the opinions of others, which do not include listening to health-care advice and diagnosis, etc. That's true?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1393	I fully agree that there have been, and are, challenges in getting child protection to use and involve child and youth psychiatry and their competence, but I believe that the challenge is also going the other way, that a child and youth psychiatry too little involves child protection when, for example, it is. there are conditions in the home that make the children have quite normal reactions to completely abnormal home situations. That's also why the Minister for Children and Gender Equality and I started a job – even before Stavanger Aftenblad wrote about the so-called Ida case – just to try to clean this up, and this was reinforced by the supervision done in the Ida case, and the recommendations made there. Being responsible for the services, having a child protection officer in child and youth psychiatry and having a child and youth psychiatry responsible for child protection, is just one of the steps taken to improve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1400	I have been given the impression that the measures taken by the government will not cost more money. After all, we suggest that one should have a child-protection reform that is financially funded. Is it the case that all the measures notified by the government should not cost more money for health services?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1405	No, of course, some of the measures will cost more money, but the government does not announce how much money you will spend on different measures until we present the budgets. Some of these measures may be implemented in the context of the growth of the various sectors, while other measures require additional appropriations, but the follow-up to them comes, of course, in the different budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1410	I understand that the government and the state councils have not responded to the proposal of a child-responsor to their own child-restraint services because one would rather strengthen this through the determinations. It's an honest argument. But when it's like this, this is really bad today, just 20 pst. of these children have been in contact with the decision in the last three months. We know that three out of four have at least one mental disorder. So my question, when a person does not vote for this proposal – which is also recommended by the Directorate – but goes against it, is: What will the government do to ensure that the children who live in an institution receive general medical care? That's the point: they don't get general medical treatment today. And how to make sure that by getting fixed to become more involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1415	First of all, we have already made a proposal for the Stortinget which is now under treatment, which also makes it clear that municipal health and care services are responsible for children who are away from home under the Child Welfare Act. Many of the child protection institutions are very small, and it is good for the children, but it also makes it less appropriate to organise this by having a child-rescue doctor in that kind of smaller institution. Then we have said that there are some people in the business who are going to have a responsibility for the health issue, for example. by being able to contact an inpatient, but not least with the paediatric psychiatry. It is clear that for some of these children, with major mental health challenges, it is not necessarily the right level of help, for example. to children’s and young people’s psychiatry or to community psychologists, who are now employed by municipalities. So here there will be different types of health professionals who will need help from.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1422	I have a question that concerns this because the government has decided to create own care and treatment institutions for children in the field of child protection. That has been a long debate. It has our arguments for and against, but we record that now the government has taken that step. My question and my concern is that there are still many children in child protection who do not have such a serious illness, but who will still need much better cooperation between child protection and the BUP than is the case today. I do not fully understand from the government’s press release what is the measure here to ensure better cooperation between child protection and the specialist health service/BUP. Can the Council of State explain that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1429	Firstly, with regard to institutional matters, it is important for me to stress that much of the debate and conflict on this issue has been about establishing treatment institutions where children live, i.e. we make the treatment institution the home of children. It is therefore a model that has never been implemented, even though many have suggested it. But in cooperation with the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, we have come up with a model that we believe can work, and which we have actually taken from the rest of the healthcare system, namely the system of home hospitals. Children who have e.g. cancer, being treated in their home. That's why we say that child protection is the responsibility of the child's home, while the specialised health care can get there and provide treatment there. This avoids what has been a lot of the professional conflict and the discussion around it. All the other proposals we are making deal with what the representative addresses: better general cooperation between child protection and child and youth psychiatry. There are a number of suggestions, and I have explained several of them in my article.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1436	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1441	The provisions of the Child Protection Services Act are clear: ‘child protection shall ensure that children and young people living under conditions that could harm their health and development are provided with the necessary assistance and care in a timely manner’. In this way, the protection of children shall ‘contribute to secure conditions of growth for children and young people’. However, research shows that three out of four children and young people in child protection institutions and half of children in foster homes suffer from mental disorders. A number of oversight reports have demonstrated serious system failure. Supervisory reports from the county officials and the so-called glaschentesaka are listed below, the Health Directorate and the Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate’s recommendation on the work on health care in the field of child protection as well, and not least the report from the Children’s Environment on ‘Unlimited care — the use of coercion against children in child protection and mental health protection’. SV supports the proposal for further follow-up to the Sørensen selection and the implementation of a fully funded child protection reform. We support the proposal on statutory cooperation agreements between child protection, health institutions and municipalities. We also support the proposal No. 4, 5 and 6, which are essentially about more custom, close and coordinated efforts to help children. SV does not support proposal No. 3, which is about a special type of child-rescue doctor, because we're concerned that it can weaken the continuity of firmness, which we know can be very important. Here we are with the Council of State. We will later discuss a proposal from the SV to introduce a profit-free child protection system, which is linked to this issue. Now, when we see what kind of challenges children face in difficult life situations, it should be obvious that all public efforts are going to help them and not make anyone profit from this work. The child-restraint effort was a significant investment with the Swedish government, and the child-restraint lift secured more than 1,000 new settings and 580 additional millions for child-rescue protection. But we weren't in target, and we were also clear on that when we were in government. Unfortunately, this field has been down-prioritized, and we hope that on the next crossroads we will be able to get an additional bet on this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1458	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1464	I think most people agree that we want a better child protection that hits better, and not least that it is the best thing for the child – whether under child protection or in the family – that is the most important thing. But I still think we have to be a little bit critical here. I get a lot of reports from both user organisations and parents and others who are seriously concerned about the lack of competence that is currently in child protection for children with different diagnostics. I know best about the autism spectrum. There is little will and ability to go deep into this, and a person pushes it so-called child-discipline in front of him and simply often fails to distinguish between what is diagnosis and health, and what is behavior and care failure. There are too many errors then, and that should not be the case. There is also something that appears more and more often, and it is a call for morbidity — that both school and child protection and others claim that parents and others morbidize their children because they point out that the child has some health challenges. In order to meet the challenges facing these children, it is absolutely necessary to have a very close cooperation between home, health care and municipalities. It's probably too rare today. But there are considerable differences between municipalities and municipalities and from child protection to child protection. Some places this works well. It's not just grief. I think that one has to take user organisations and others even more seriously about these challenges, so that we get a child protection that doesn't bob as much as they actually do today. I believe that child-care assessments should not be carried out without health assessments. It is not good for children’s professional judgements if they do not also take over and take up health professional assessments and have specialist health services, permanent staff and others on the team. It is also not good child-care assessments if you have an inviolable child-restraint that you are not using to communicate with. Too often, I'm afraid. When it comes to supervision, things go very late. When we see that things are going on – we have some very rough examples, "Glasschenta" and others – the supervision and systems often go so late that these children get very hurt before we make a decision. There is also something we should look at more – how we can get in quickly, how we can change things where things have gone wrong, without months and years, because then the damage becomes so much bigger and almost irreparable in some cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1479	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1495	Our main task as politicians is to ensure the security of the country and the security of the population – to protect its citizens. On 22 July 2011, Norway was first hit by a major terrorist attack in recent times. The attack on the government quarter and the young people on Utøya showed that we had significant deficiencies in our preparedness. The resources did not match. The report of the 22nd July Commission revealed a lack of cooperation between the agencies responsible for the prevention, deterrence and management of terrorist attacks. The President of the Commission then said: ‘We concluded that it is urgent to address these challenges because the necessary change can and will take time, and requires determination and endurance.’ After 22 July, a number of measures were put in place to improve safety and preparedness at a rapid pace: Changes were made to the penal code to increase the scope for combating terrorism. New Emergency Response Centre was designed. PST was given increased resources. A total accumulation made clear demands for better cooperation between the police and the defence. New instructions were developed. Before the 2013 elections, Erna Solberg and her party, Right, promised to increase the efficiency of the preparedness work. On 9 March 2013, Erna Solberg presented the plans to establish an emergency function in the Prime Minister’s office because the country’s top political leader is finally seventh and ultimately responsible for Norway’s preparedness, as it was called. To VG Erna Solberg said: ‘The experience of the 22nd July Commission shows that this is necessary. You need a Prime Minister who is in charge of these matters." Soon four years after the acquisition of the Right-Fremskritsparte government, it is not easy to see the implementing power that Erna Solberg then announced. Unfortunately, it is not that easy to get an eye on a Prime Minister who is in charge of these matters, to borrow her own words. It is illustrated by the fact that this debate coincides with the fact that the Stortinge deals with the serious failure that the Riks revision has revealed in the government’s ability to get the Defense and the police to secure terrorist objects in our country. In itself, it is serious that the object protection fails. It weakens the security of the population. But just as serious is the fact that this points towards a more fundamental failure. The main advice of the Gjørv Commission was to start at the top, strengthen national leadership, develop attitudes and culture for risk recognition, enforcement and interaction. It is essential that the country's political leadership takes precedence and that the police and the defence cooperate well. The national audit has revealed that both parts failed. Defence and police are not cooperating well enough on security, and the political leadership of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice and Defence has not been able to do anything about it. Still, neither the Stortinget nor the Riksrevisionen have received a full explanation of the reasons why this is so. Why has the government not been able to follow up the Commission on these crucial issues? The work of securing us against terror is complex. Basically, it’s about attitudes, culture and management – as Dr. Gørv writes. Good international cooperation is essential, in particular with regard to monitoring and intelligence. Good preparedness is also about improving the operational capacity of the police and the ability of the defence to assist the police, and much more, such as ICT security and critical infrastructure security. The sum of measures will determine whether we are able to avert the attack or meet the next attack – which is likely to be different from the previous – better than we were in power on 22 July 2011. No one can demand that the Prime Minister or the government have all the answers – let's be honest about it – but on the part of Stortinge, we must be able to demand that they do all the skills they need to ensure the security of the population. People have to feel confident that our authorities are doing the job. After July 22, Norway agreed that everything had to be on the table. The message from the then government and from the whole Stortinget to Gjørv was to deliver an undefiled and honest report. It did, and it formed the basis for a healthy debate on what worked and what failed. In retrospect, we see how important it was. The open and honest debate gave a broad and solid consensus on what went wrong on July 22. It ensured a strong legitimacy for the work on improvement that was started quickly afterwards. Therefore, I am genuinely concerned that the Prime Minister refuses to show the same openness today when a critical searchlight is being set. Instead, we experience a government that closes the debate on its own failure in object protection, secretaries and pushes the responsibility downwards. It's not leadership, it's not executive, and it's an incomprehensible breach of the spirit of July 22nd and the work of the Gjørv Commission. The position of the Labour Party is as clear now as it was when we were responsible. In such a serious matter as the fight against terrorism, with fundamental importance for the security of the population, we must have an open and honest debate – even when it is unpleasant, even when errors are discovered. I hope we have such a debate today, because there are several areas that need to be improved. We believe that there is too little work to do with culture, attitudes and leadership. We have requested a groceries message, so that the whole size can go into the theme. The government says no. Police districts have reduced their operating space by 426 million. kr from 2013 to 2016. It won't be better prepared. The government could use the revised national budget to strengthen police districts with increased free means of operation, but it did not. The critical resources needed by the police, as called for by Mr. Yørv, have been pushed out in time – emergency centre, helicopter, ICT investment. The interaction is not good enough either. Cooperation between defence and police continues to pose major challenges. We are still waiting for the amendments to the aid directive to be implemented. There is no common threat assessment and the voluntary rescue services are not well included in exercises and learning after exercises. The impression is that the government is talking a lot about preparedness, but with regard to the large investments, they are waiting. The bill, also in this area, is being pushed over to the next government. Security and preparedness is an area where there are few simple answers and no easy solutions. I have all the respect for it. It takes time to change attitudes and culture. I also believe the Prime Minister that a good deal is being done by the government to improve preparedness, that preparedness in Norway is getting better. But a little bit better isn't good enough. The size must be sure that the work on preparedness is something that permeates everything the government does. We need to be sure that the government really prioritises security, and we need to be sure that the government is not trying to hide anything. Unfortunately, that security does not have the power to create Erna Solberg. On the contrary: the government's lack of progress in important areas and the Prime Minister's reluctance to open up were both alarming and alarmingly opposed to the unreserved promise of increased enforcement in this area. That is why this interpellation and this debate were necessary, and it is therefore necessary to ask clear questions. How does the Prime Minister explain that her implementation has been weak in important areas in order to improve preparedness? And why does she not take responsibility for ensuring an undefiled and honest debate on the serious criticism of the Riksrevision?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1559	The cruel acts of terror that took place on 22 July 2011 revealed that Norway’s preparedness was too poor. The government, like the previous government, has a high priority in correcting it. Let me draw some examples: National emergency response system has been revised. We have made changes to the exercise structure, where civil national exercises are now based on the national risk picture and findings from past events and exercises. We have changed the supervisory functions in the ministry, so that supervision no longer ends until deviations are closed. Surveillance reports are public, which they were not in the past. That means that in each department's supervision we can now see what has not been followed up, and that means a much greater transparency than what was under the supervision of the previous government. In addition, we have strengthened the PST, the Emergency Response Team and the work on cybersecurity. The response time of the Defense Helicopters to assist the police has been reduced from two hours to one hour. Rapid procedures are in place for assistance from the defence to the police. Once the picture of terrorism has changed, we have met it with new measures for, among other things, to prevent extremism with an active action plan and active involvement around Norway in order to prevent recruitment. The Social Security Communication shows that we have largely followed up the recommendations of the Gjørv Commission and the Special Committee on the Storting. The message is now for discussion in Stortinget, and I intend to refer to the overviews there regarding the question that the representative Gahr Støre had about what has been done. Details have been reported back to Stortingen on the follow-up to the measures in that plan. There is a broad consensus that today’s preparedness is far better than what it was during the terrorist incident on 22 July 2011. The National Audit Office has recently reviewed the Ministry of Justice’s work on social security and preparedness. The main picture of the Riksrevision report is that significant progress has been made, but also that there are several points of improvement. Improvements in preparedness work will never be completed. The government’s social security message and long-term defence sector plan will strengthen and further improve preparedness. Otherwise, I notice that when it comes to this question in the interpellation text that we were critical of the previous government after July 22, I think this can be perceived a little differently from what position you have. We became, among other things, in the 2013 election campaign met with criticism for not having severely criticised the Stoltenberg government. The representative refers to the Riksrevision's criticism of the work on object protection. I am referring to the fact that this has been explained in detail in the hearing of the Control and Constitutional Committee on 20 and 21 March of this year, and a new hearing is planned on 29 May. So I'm not going to go into that topic here. The representative Gahr Støre brings forward some projects that I would like to comment on. Firstly, it points out that no money has been allocated to a national emergency centre. At this point I am frankly a little surprised to be met with criticism from exactly the representative Gahr Støre. Gahr Støre, a member of the Stoltenberg government, decided in August 2012 to make the railway area on Alna available to the police emergency centre. However, it is clear that the usual quality assurance procedures for such decisions were short-circuited in the process, and the decision was taken on a too thin basis. Among other things, there were indications of the timing, cost framework and area needs of the previous government that proved not to be realistic. So it became clear to us early that we had to consider alternatives to the Alna. The existing quality assurance report, which was available in August 2015, showed that the other land options scored better than Alna on almost all points. After the project we decided in October 2016 to continue with Taraldrud as a location. From our decision to launch the concept selection investigation, KVU, in January 2014, until the external quality assurance report, KS2, is available for late summer/harvest, an estimated 44 months will have passed. There is a drive that – in such large-scale projects – stands out well. We are dedicated to implementing a proper quality assurance of the project. We're going to make a good and forward-looking project. There's no lack of money or the funding it's been on, but we've been on a siding to build the best emergency centre we can have in the future, because of the short cut in the work of the previous government. The project as it now exists has more functions, greater flexibility and a significantly lower cost framework than the Alna project. It also facilitates the training of police officers with the emergency team at the emergency centre, which will provide an opportunity for people around the country to get joint training with a force for which they will need help in emergency situations. In sum, we're going to have an emergency centre that's better suited to the needs of the future than the centre of the previous government has prepared to treat it quickly. I think that's good. This should be the basis for training for decades to come. In the case of helicopter support to the police, the recommendation of the Gjørv Commission was: ‘A robust police helicopter service must be established in the Oslo Police District and cooperation arrangements must be established to ensure police transport capacity in other parts of the country. The capacity and role of the police helicopter in sharp situations need to be clarified.’;» Of course, in our long-term country, it is important that the police can mobilize and transport quickly to where the events occur. The government decided that from 1 January 2015, the Defence Bell helicopter at Bardufoss and Rygge would strengthen its preparedness for the police, and the clear time was reduced from two hours to one hour. In addition, in case of acute situations of high risk to life and health, the police may immediately receive transport support from the rescue helicopters. These have base six locations in the country and are at 15 minutes response time. In order to avoid a loss of time in critical situations, the decision-making authority to request and grant enforcement assistance with the Bell Helicopters of the Back is delegated to the police director and the head of the Defence Operational Headquarters. Similarly, for Sea King helicopters on Rygge, engaged in maritime counter-terrorism preparedness. In 2016, an agreement was reached with the Coast Guard pilot service, which has three helicopters that can be requested for the transport of police personnel in the event of serious incidents. The air ambulance, including helicopters and aeroplanes, may also transport police personnel in the event of ongoing life-threatening violence. Under this government, the response force has been strengthened by 50 pst. several officials. This means that the police's most special-interest service staff have the opportunity to have a first response in five minutes. From May 2016 they have also been able to use police helicopters as a sniper platform. The government has now decided to purchase three new police helicopters. The cost framework for the project has recently been presented in the revised national budget. Overall, the police have the possibility of helicopter transport from a number of different locations across the country. As a result, police access to air transport capacity has increased significantly since this government joined. We have followed up and followed up all the concrete points made recommended. The July 22 report highlighted the importance of thoroughly prepared exercises to ensure an effective response. In our government platform, we set up an emergency centre structure to ensure preparedness across the country. In 2014, we therefore commissioned the DSB to assess the status and needs of joint training and competence centres. DSB's report of 2015 points out among others: on how to develop the capacities already existing: the Police College, the Centre for Preparedness and Competence of Civil Protection, the Centres for the Competence of Health, the Fire College of Norway and the Central Rescue Centres. The report has been consulted and a wide-ranging working group has been set up to review the consultation opinions. We will follow the recommendations of the working group when the departments and other co-operators concerned have made their views known during the summer. The establishment of new regional training centres is currently not a priority, as other emergency measures have been given a higher priority. So at the same time, we're going to have an emergency center on Taraldrud, which is dimensioned so that local police forces can also get in and out. This will give us better common practice. The Yeast Commission and subsequent landfills analysed the situation in 2011. The Stoltenberg government followed up several recommendations. We've continued our work. But I want to stress that the work on standby is a continuous process. We're going to be prepared for new terrorist events, just as we experienced July 22nd. But we also have to prepare to be challenged by what is most likely to affect most: natural disasters, fires or other non-violent events. That's why we have to work wider with readiness than just dealing with the recommendations of Gjørv. The main challenge in preparedness is unforeseeable. The next event may have a completely different course of action than the previous one. That is why the preparedness work must always be adapted to the current threat picture at all times. And we're never going to finish working on standby.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1635	Let me thank the Prime Minister for the answer. It is a little reserved thanks, because I record that she again confirms that she will keep the summary from the Riksrevision, which I believe is important for the debate on preparedness at large. I agree that the Gjørv Commission's report must be read from its time, but the most important thing that was pointed out was related to attitudes, leadership and culture. It's an observation that's over time. The next disaster is not the same as the previous, said Prime Minister. I agree. Let me then turn attention to another topic where there is reason to question the government's efforts, and that is how we face digital threats. It's a current issue. The data attack on WannaCry, which started on Friday, has hit businesses and individuals in over 150 countries. We have now been shown how important it is to protect ourselves against cyberterrors. As many as 200,000 individuals have to be hit. This is not a threat that comes from Norway, but every government here must solve the main challenges of its watch and follow up in its time, and when the world changes, the priority must do so too. Now the best experts in the country question whether the government has understood the rapidly increasing seriousness of the cybertraps we are now seeing, both against us as a country and against businesses and individuals in Norway. Sofie Nystrøm, director of the Center for Cyber and Information Security at NTNU, criticises the politicians today in the Evening Post not to see the extent of this type of crime. That criticism affects most of all the government, which has the executive responsibility. Minister of Justice and Security Amundsen confirms that for him and the government the most important thing has not been to protect Norway and the Nordics from new digital threats, which have come second. It's an honest confession, and it also fits well with the impression I have. The government investigates a lot, but in important areas it does less. We've had the Light I selection, the Light II selection, we've had the Traavik selection, and once again we see a contrast between the investigative power and the executive power. Then the question is as follows, also for this debate: The government has not prioritised operating resources for the police, not reinforced work against online crime. In Stortinget, we are waiting for proposals for a new law on prevention security; we are waiting for a proposal on a digital border defence; we are waiting for a national competence strategy on ICT security. The size is waiting for the government, but those who threaten us like land or individuals are not waiting. So can the Prime Minister confirm, as her own Minister of Justice and Preparedness, that increased security against digital threats has not been the main concern of the government? And can she then give an honest and untapped account of how well rusted she believes as a country are to combat digital threats to the country, Norwegian businesses and individuals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1648	First, I want to stress that police force and knowledge are about having enough people. When it is claimed by the Labour Party that there is no increased room for action, it is probably right that we have earmarked some money that has gone to the police. We have done so because before the elections we promised to have more policemen. Now we have considerably more policemen, because we make sure that more policemen are employed. We saw when the terror threat came – which was even stronger and has changed – that we had to spend more money to strengthen the PST. That is why we have strengthened the anti-terrorism work, intelligence and the investigation of terror through the PST. But I record that the Workers' Party's spokeswoman on these questions very often criticises us for the fact that there has been more money for some of the central agencies. But PST may be our first line to prevent us from experiencing terror in Norway, by having good cooperation and intelligence, which we have strengthened. We've spent 2.5 billion. kr more on the police during the years this government has been sitting. It means more police, it means a strengthened PST, it means more bet in many of these areas. But when you put a lot on something, there can be holes in other areas – that's absolutely right. That is why, in the revised national budget, we have just allocated more money to equipment, because we see that there is a challenge on the equipment side – and challenges related to the operation of police offices. The working party has to move from criticizing every single thing to telling what they would prioritize. Aren't there any more policemen? Aren't there any more people in the PST? Is it not the ICT measures in the police that we have held back money from through the Police Directorate to implement? That's what we've spent the money on, and that's what's the ringing in this context related to the police. Then I disagree with my Minister of Justice if the Minister of Justice believes that we have not spent money working with cybersecurity – or spent resources working with cybersecurity. We've done it within the defense, we've done it within the police. We're not least working on everything we need to do to make sure that we have good systems for this in the future. That's why we put down the Lysne selections. There is a very big message about this, precisely because we have worked with the robustness and made sure that we have redundancy in very many of these questions. Making sure to see the vulnerabilities in how our social structures are is part of what the government has spent a lot of time working on — precisely creating strategies to prevent them. It is possible that you are not satisfied that we have investigated and found out good methods for this, but we have now followed that investigation. We have prioritised these things high, long before the episode that has happened now – which is, moreover, an episode that the police would never prevent. The only thing that can prevent it is that people update their computers and that people in private business take their own security seriously. Everyone's got one alarm now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1665	There has been a part within Norwegian preparedness. Some important initiatives have been launched, others are thought about and planned. So it's not like everything's on the ground. But there are three problems in particular. The main initiatives are in time. The calculation for this will be quite large, and it will have to be picked up after the selection. What the Commission, on 22 July, called the main resource for increased preparedness, namely the nearest police patrol, has been weakened. I can go into the details a little bit. There is no money left to build a emergency centre. The Prime Minister himself is busy that a recent regulation plan for construction at Taraldrud has been out on the phone – and it is fine – but the government itself confirmed in the proposal to the Ministry of Justice and Defence budget in autumn 2014 that the Emergency Centre can be integrated into Alnabru. The Prime Minister should be a little reluctant to go so high on the track, because they have tried in rather orderly ways to talk away from the fact that it would be possible to build on Alnabru. They have documented in their own public documents that it would be possible. The important thing now is that the center is built, even if the progress and the bill remain. It is said that there is another and much larger emergency centre to build now. It says that it also evaluates the appropriateness. The Prime Minister points out that there is some initiative attached to helicopter, and that's right. When it comes to taking time in the use of Bell Helicopter, the table was covered by the previous government. When it comes to obtaining rescue helicopters, all processes were finished when the previous government resigned. When it comes to buying police helicopters, there is no set of money for purchase. It's set of money to get it, but the real bill comes when police helicopters are going to be paid for, i.e., in the next government period. The national crisis management is not organised with a national operational centre, as recommended by the July 22 Commission. In addition, the boating capacity of the rescue team has been reduced. The July 22 Commission also referred to: ‘The main response is the ordinary police.’ Nevertheless, the number of policemen in the districts has fallen. These are numbers from the Police Directorate – it's not the Labour Party's number, but the Police Directorate's own number. There is also a recent report from consultants BDO and Menon, from which the government itself has ordered a job. The Prime Minister is busy with one more bet on the police – and is critical of the criticism that one then gets. But it is the consulting companies from which the government itself has ordered the report, which documents – I quote again: the district has reduced its operating space with a fainting ‘426 million’. They also write that it has gone beyond long-term investment and new purchases. It is also difficult to see significant government initiatives to reduce ICT and cyber vulnerability, in addition to distribution and discussion. We addressed this in the context of last autumn's budgetary procedure and asked very concretely how much government has allowed for ICT modernisation in the police from 2013 to 2016, how much has to be allowed in the years to come, and what time they expect to be done with ICT modernisation. The government will then – and I quote again – respond to the fact that they have given specific resources to several ICT actions, and that there will be a significant need to prioritise security, modernisation and competence in the field of ICT. But that's also what they're saying. When the Storting asks the government what they've done, what they're going to do, what the plans are, what time they're in, this is the answer – no number, no estimate of how much progress they've been using, what their needs are. Then we have to be able to suggest that it was the best answer from the government when the Storting asks – not the only word about how much money has been spent, no purpose for the time when things should be done. It is good that a police reform has been carried out. We in the Labour Party have wanted it and have improved the reform through negotiations on the Stortinget. However, implementation is criticised from several quarters. She is criticized by PF for not listening enough to add. There have been spokesmen who have said that they have not received the information that Storting has agreed to have, and not least the implementation is also criticised by Digi, who points out that the Minister of Justice has tried to control the reform in a way that has been propagated throughout its implementation. I want to add a criticism, and that's that one of them is not focusing too little on content. It was e.g. The Labour Party, which had to require 16 concrete actions before culture and leadership in the negotiations at Stortinget. Preparedness is demanding and complex, but this Prime Minister himself chose to present it as simple when she was a prime minister candidate. The only thing that needed to be done before the elections in 2013 was, of course, implementation – and everything would fall into place. Now it's almost four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1696	This is an important debate, important because we are given the opportunity to highlight what has now been done after the terrible attack on 22 July, which thus revealed significant shortcomings in the preparedness for terror in the last government, and it was a serious wake-up to us all. This government has been working continuously to improve preparedness since it arrived in 2013, and I must be allowed to remind you – although it has been suggested here in the past – that, after all, the National Audit Office's report dates from 2015, and that it has been making significant efforts since that date. I would nevertheless stress that this is a work that never ends. The safety of citizens must always be prioritised and improved. I want to highlight the work done on total defence, including police and defence cooperation, which has been improved in many areas. The government decided last autumn to strengthen and renew the overall defence and has launched its own programme to ensure this. In addition, the total defence is an important part of the government’s long-term defence plan, which is also at the back of the Workers’ Party. The strengthening of the long-term plan, both for defence and for total defence, will bring significant improvement after the previous long-term plans resulted in under-financing and a weakening of defence. There is also an offensive effort to facilitate police and defence cooperation, including: by updating the assistance file and by emergency plans and operational plans. The police and the defense practice more together now than before, and both the police director and the chief of defence recently stressed that they are experiencing this cooperation as well, and that is of course important. Our country is far, there are great distances, so access to the helicopter is especially important when it's urgent to come to a crisis. Helicopters may be what the police most often ask the defense for assistance with. In October 2015, this government reduced the standby time on the Bell 412 helicopter from two hours to one hour. The government has changed the procedure so that aid requests now go as quickly as possible and precious time does not disappear in unnecessary long procedures. With the government's long-term defence plan, counter-terrorism preparedness, especially in the East, is further strengthened when the helicopter capacity of Back increases as a result of Bell's move. Finally, I would like to highlight the strengthening of Homeland Protection. This government has strengthened the Heimeverens budgets every year since it came, only from 2016 to 2017 have we increased the budget by 191 million. kr. The number of objects to be secured by the Home Protection system is lower than in 2012. So with this government, fewer objects are secured with the same number of soldiers, increased budgets and more training. It is a significant improvement from the Workers' Party's government period, when the budgets for the Home Guard were cut by nearly 300 million. kr. It's probably election years, but sometimes it may seem like you're almost criticising autopilot, because when the defense's annual report was presented on 11 April this year, we heard the head of defense say that the defense has been heard in his wish for an economic uplift. Furthermore, he said that ‘the trend of decline is about to turn; it gives optimism’. The government has done a lot to improve preparedness here to land, and we've been confirmed that what we're doing is working. It is clear from the text of the interpellation of the representative Gahr Støre – and he spent a lot of time emphasising this – that he saw few traces of the executive Erna Solberg promised Stortinget. After Hadia Tajik's posts, I became a little more optimistic. I seemed to notice that she had seen more traces of it than the representative Gahr Støre, so I wish him welcome after, considering to see the traces of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1717	The theme that the interpellant addresses is very important, because security and preparedness are a work that we'll never finish. We're never going to finish it, because the evolution that's happening around us is going to be of such a nature that the threat picture also changes at regular intervals. We've also seen that related to what's going on with cyberterror, especially lately, and we can all think in our interior just what can happen if you really use this as a powerful medium. However, I'm a little surprised by the entry speed of the interpellant in the interpellant that has been delivered, but let's go back to NOU 2012:14, the report of the Gjørv Commission, and that, among other things. is under Chapter 1, page 15 – so much is probably also based on a bad conscience. On page 15, we read: ‘The attack on the Government Quartet 22/7 could have been prevented by the effective implementation of the security measures already adopted.’ It goes on to say: «More protective and preparedness measures to make new attacks more difficult and to reduce the adverse effects should have been implemented 22/7.» Furthermore, in Chapter 18 of the same report, we can read that it took 13 years from the adoption of the Safety Act, until the regulations were in place to supplement the provisions of the Law on Object Safety, they were in place only months before the bomb went off in the Governmental Quarter, and then that NSM had never ‘implemented pure oversight of object safety in the Governmental Quarter or in other protective features’ before 22 July. Of course, there is a lot that should have been taken care of, and much that needs to be taken into account – that is what it is. However, after 22 July, more than a thousand measures have been taken to strengthen preparedness in Norway, and the government has provided emergency services. Appropriations for the police and the PST have increased from 12.8 billion. SEK in 2013 to SEK 18,3 billion. kr in 2017. Growth is significantly greater than during the last period of the Stoltenberg government, both in percentage and in purely numerical terms. The Labour Party therefore has little credibility in attacking the government in the field of security and preparedness policy. But it's not just money use that's important; at least as important is what kind of huge emergency search the government has made in terms of the big bet of 5.5 billion. kr. The Progress Party and the Right use the resources efficiently and purposefully. The aim is more police officers in the streets, more prevention, better intelligence and operational preparedness. The government has provided a net increase of 850 new posts in the police, of which 400 have been employed in a sharp call-out unit, UEH, further a strengthening of the call-out units prioritised in the mobile network, to the joint counter-terrorist centre established between the PST and the E service, and the situation centre of the Ministry of Justice has been made the day-to-day staff. During the terrorist attack on Ut Island, the NRK helicopter was almost the only helicopter in the air. Helicopter readiness is crucial when the worst possible happens. Therefore, the government has reduced the requirement for helicopter assistance from the Defense from two hours to one hour. There is also a targeted effort to improve helicopter preparedness. Rescue helicopters have been ordered and assistance measures will be implemented. Furthermore, we have heard the Prime Minister explain how, in a sharp situation and if necessary, the aircraft support units that exist can be used. Counter-terrorism and preparedness depend entirely on good intelligence. In recent years, we have also seen more and more foreign countries use cyberattacks to promote their own interests. Cyberattacks can also put common means of communication out of play in crisis situations. That's why this government has strengthened PST by more than 200 million. kr, and cooperation with the E service has been strengthened. The work also carried out by the police in the districts is very important for the competences built up. We have seen that through other police work as well, the so-called 'Dark Room' case, where serious violations have been rolled up. Furthermore, we have seen that others have done the same thing, namely by Operation Jupiter in the Moravian and Romesdal police districts. There is considerable work to be done. Much will remain. There is a continuous work to be done, but the government is on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1747	I will first be allowed to thank the interpellant for having an important debate. Our prime task as politicians is to protect the inhabitants. July 22, 2011, our nation put to the test. The pain over 77 lost lives is still great. We did not have the power to protect people who were doing their social service in the government quarter, or our young people – who were preparing to return to society. As politicians, we must continually do what we can to secure society. The interpellant addresses many of the challenges we face today – challenges we should have liked to have met so much longer. It is therefore very good that we discuss it, with the aim of making Norway safer, not to score cheap party political points. To this, the theme is too important and too serious. If one reads the alternate budget of the various parties for these four years, there are actually no parties that can vote out in this debate. The terror that struck us was the worst attack on Norwegian citizens since World War II. The responsibility for the untruths is the terrorist's, his alone. But the Gjørv report revealed a number of critical and serious issues. The National Audit Office’s report on the ability of police and defence to secure societal critical features pointed to serious failures in a number of areas. I'm afraid it's not surprising. Last year, the annual joint exercise, Gemini, between the Defense and the police, was divided into two separate exercises because they were unable to agree on how to combat terrorist attacks at sea. When the conclusion after 22 July was that we need to put in place more interoperability and practice, we cannot accept that the defence and police, which are the most important institutions to protect our citizens, are heading in a different direction. Norway is a small country. We therefore need to use our resources wisely and rationally, and not least we need to invest in the tasks that it is absolutely vital that we do to secure our society. The police reform was necessary to get in place. To solve the challenges we face, we need to secure knowledge, competence, interoperability and the best possible police where people are. That was the aim of the reform, but I must say at the same time that I am concerned. Policemen I meet on my travels tell me about the lack of priority of policemen out there where people are. It worries me, and I expect the government to now settle and carry out the mandate they have received from Stortinget. We have to build on what we're good at, and close the holes where necessary. If we are to fight terrorism and be prepared, it is absolutely vital that the police and the defence work together. But then they also have to practice together. The government may not allow the safety of retro-reflectors to be compromised by the safety of the inhabitants. It is the Prime Minister who has the highest responsibility for security in our country. I expect it to be cleaned up. The Prime Minister took more action when she took over the government offices. The Prime Minister established a national security and security element at the Prime Minister's office, and the government platform was clear: security and preparedness should be given priority; Norway should become safer. The Court of Auditors' judgment is harsh. There are serious safety deficiencies in Norway. Central features are not secured and failure can pose a risk to life and health. Once again, the defense and the police have not been able to cooperate. The government must take this seriously. The fact that the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Defence have not been able to strengthen cooperation between the police and the defence, as the Stortinget has foreseen, is incomprehensible to me. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, it is likely that neither the police nor the Defense, together or separately, will be able to exercise adequate protection of essential objects in the event of a threat. It's serious, it's very serious. The National Audit Office also points out, in its unupgraded report, that the government has not provided a good explanation as to why they have not given sufficient priority to the work on object protection and basic protection. It is good that the government has now announced increased funds in the revised National Object Protection Budget, 20 million. kr, and that it will increase the safety of the emergency network, 5 million. kr. Of course, this should have been in place before, and we expect it to solve the challenges now. It's time for action and not just big words.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1774	I would like to thank the interpellant for having traveled an important theme, an important topic. As many of those who have spoken so far in the debate have been involved, there is a persistent problem that we will hardly see a solution to. Preparedness will be a question we need to raise in a number of political debates for many years to come. Many refer to the Gjørv Commission and what the Gjørv Commission said. I share the interpellant's view that what the Gjørv Commission said about culture, management and cooperation is an answer that is going to stand over time. At the same time, there is an answer on which there is no simple phase, and which has also not been given the possibility of implementing by means of a single decision, but it is a rather long-term work. This may have been the most important message from the Gjørv Commission – culture, management and cooperation within the emergency services, and especially the police. What the Gjørv Commission was not so very concerned about, but for which they have been used in retrospect, was that one should be concerned about structural change within the Norwegian police as the only answer to preparedness issues. Many themes have been addressed during the debate today. I must be allowed to point at some of them. The question of object protection has been raised. I understand that it comes up as a topic in the debate, because the cooperation to secure terrorist targets has not worked well enough. It's been too bad. But for the political parties, it is difficult to enter into such a debate when a secret team, which is quite incomprehensible, deprives us of both the opportunity to know and to have an overview of what has happened – and therefore also the debate on what is needed for that cooperation to work and improve. The Prime Minister said something in his post that I think we might reflect a little bit on. She said that there were routines in place that meant that no supervision was completed until all deviations were closed. It's a sentence that you can hear in a lot of contexts. These terms have something to say about me that I think is problematic, because it's a concept that is related to a kind of reporting culture that I now feel often comes instead of the operational culture we actually need. Because we need different levels of preparedness seats that dare to be open about the challenges that exist. We need different levels that dare to take responsibility and actually implement things, act and operate, and that do not drown in words and expressions associated with a reporting culture and a reporting regime. It's a subject I think we should be concerned about in the years to come. The business analysis that came last week shows that the operative element in the police force is getting less routed, despite what the government says. The action space in the police districts has been reduced by about half a billion from 2013 to 2016, and this is serious. The only answer the government seems to have to have so far is structural change, i.e. centralization of the police. In the middle of a time when you're going to try to upgrade the security page, police use a reform that many of the police officers think will lead to more centralisation and less security for most people. All attention will be paid to what could instead have been used for other aspects of emergency work. Instead of additional resources, we experience re-priorities affecting the key areas, which are deprived of priority: prevention, everyday criminality and preparedness in the districts. The Prime Minister was in on it. She said that the ability to mobilize and react quickly must be present throughout our long-term country. But it isn't, and it won't be in the years to come. Many places in the community feel that it is not the police that are first out in the event of acute incidents. It is the fire service, which, moreover, is now also to be centralised by a regulation from a directorate. But it is they who are out when there is cutting in Høyanger, when there is hijacking of a bus, or when there are emergencies related to traffic. It is an important point that I think we should note, and that there is reason to think about how to do better at these times, with all the reforms – how preparedness should actually apply to the whole country, whether the capital area is seagoingly having a special role and pointing out itself in particular. In the end, I want to say that all the world's efforts by the PST or the police are central to preventing cybercrime, if each of us does not also take responsibility for protecting us from that type of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1792	In order to ensure good preparedness, leadership, clarity, enforcement, ability to cut through and use society’s total resources – good cooperation between police and defence. Unfortunately, it doesn't work well enough, and I think that representatives of the government parties had insisted on taking the political responsibility they have in the government's position. To cry out from this pulpit that things work well, does not present credibility. At least the government should do what it promised when it went on, and they promised us greater transparency. We have not seen that in this case. We already saw when the government went on in 2014, when we were going to get the first common threat assessment from the PST and the E service, that the government took a step back, it let the various agencies present different threat assessments. The political pressure for cooperation was not big enough. We also saw it when it came to cyberdefense. When this government was to implement an efficiency and red tape reform, the first red tape that took place was that the cyber defence had to cut its investment budget by 70pst – no fewer people in the office, but right into what is about our common preparedness. I have to say that I am a bit indignant about Halleraker's uninhibited reputation in terms of Home Security and increased resources. We know very well that more than half of the reinforcement that took place in the current year is due to an agreement with the Workers' Party. We wanted to increase budgets for Home Affairs, and we were able to negotiate them out. From military history we know the cliché of the general's tendency to always prepare for the previous war, not the next, and last week we marked May 8th, our day of liberation and veto. When we're going to focus on dealing with the unknown, we need to avoid slipping safety. However, I consider putting forward a hypothesis: the next time Norwegian military forces are in action on Norwegian soil, it is likely to happen by assisting the police in a terrorist attack. We have seen this absolutely necessary in both France, Belgium and other countries. It has not been uncontroversial in Norway for the defence to assist the police. The seminar team is a bad example, and I am also pleased that the Ministry of Defence said no to assist the police during the Alta action. But if we're facing a terrorist attack, we have to look at the total resources. In March 2016, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice and Defence set up a working group to propose new instructions on the police assistance of the Defence Department. On 30 September last year, the group presented a report to the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence. Since then it has been quiet. And this isn't about money, but it's about political will to cut through strong professional cultures. Here, the Gjørv Commission is very clear. Consideration should be given to whether the defence should have additional support tasks for the police in the event of terrorist attacks. So my question is, why isn't this followed up? When can we expect the follow-up to the proposals to amend the aid directive and simplify the procedures for triggering assistance from the Defence to the police – when will it come into force? Finally, I would like to ask the Prime Minister about her ability to take greater responsibility for these questions. Repeatedly in the election campaign, the Prime Minister said that she wanted the Prime Minister's office to have a stronger management of emergency work. Then an emergency element was created in the Prime Minister's office. It has been phased out in silence. What negative experience does the Prime Minister have in having an emergency element in the Prime Minister's office, as this has been silenced?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1807	After following the debate, which is quite leaping and fragmented, I have to say that I am a little surprised by the Workers' Party's learning approach to the debate. It seems the story is forgotten. The Gjørv Commission made a dramatic judgment on the Norwegian police and preparedness. The attack on the government quarter could have been prevented, the terrorist could have been stopped earlier. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg of the Workers' Party said that the awareness of preparedness had not been strong enough in the government. It was the inheritance we acquired, and it was an animal-purchased learning, from which this government also learns and does its utmost to correct. The representative, Gahr Støre, was concerned about the urgency of the matter. That's right. It's a quote from the Gjørv Commission, where it says in the summary chapter: ‘It is therefore important to address the basic challenges. It's urgent.' That's exactly what the government has done. The government has not wasted one day and has done its utmost to correct the errors pointed out by the Gjørv Commission. The defects and faults were many, and they were listed in a very pedagogical way. I see the need to actually repeat some of the Commission's points: Lack of interaction between the emergency seats and lack of interaction within the police: What have we done? Well, we've put in place an emergency network, which allows emergency seats to communicate with each other in a much better way, and there are procedures for interaction between the other emergency seats. We have to get a POD that takes responsibility, it says in the Gjørv Commission. We've got a POD that takes responsibility, and that sits in the driver's seat in the development of one police in Norway, despite the fact that this is often hounded over, especially by the Center Party. The police lacked an ICT structure: what's going on? Uses 860 million. kr in 2017 to get the ICT systems in place. The police had 242 systems that were unable to talk to each other. National alarm must be established: National alarm system is in place. The technology used by the police patrols is absent: they've got new technology, they're investigating on-site, they're solving more things. There must be an emergency centre in place: there the Workers' Party made the banal mistake that they were unable to see the difference on the gross and net factor, recommended a location that was completely inappropriate, and provided a cost estimate that was completely away from the fifth wall. Now it's determined where it's going to be, and the money's going to be granted. Weak manning of operating centres: Operation centres are staffed. Lack of response time and call-out time requirements have also been introduced. This could be the case and could be the framework for action in response to measures implemented. Of course you can't do that. The police director said in Dagbladet on 27 June last year that 1,049 measures have been implemented in the wake of the Gjørv Commission. It must have passed the Workers' Party's house, and if the Workers' Party has not passed, it actually deserves recognition from this pulpit from the head of the Workers' Party. Over to other measures implemented. The response force has expanded by 40 p.m., the bombing team has increased its population, all police districts have been given an armored vehicle, and there are now 300 more police officers who are able to deal with a sharp situation. The Gjørv Commission was very clear that the police's helicopter capacity is too poor. What have you done? Two helicopters have been set up at one hour of standby, one at Rygge and one at Bardufoss. Today’s police helicopters have been modified so that they can be used as a fire support platform from the air, and three new police helicopters have now been contracted. And this too can be signed out. In total, a number of measures have been implemented for which the government should actually get a little recognition, even though it is in a deep sense. Of course, it can get better. We never get to the goal, but we've got a very good start. I must say to the representative Arnstad that the fire department first comes on site, probably the representative Arnstad must also be prepared for the continuation. All the municipalities have a fire service, and the fire service sits and waits for fire, to say it a little figurative. The police can't do that. The police are constantly out on their missions. It's a situation that we actually have to live with, and that's not that stupid either. To the representative of Hadia Tajik, who says that the room for action is locally restricted for the police. This is not to say that we have had a weaker police force in the police districts. There are questions about how to use the funds. This government wants more policemen, which has actually resulted in 1,301 more police officers in the police districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1850	The terrorist attack on Norway on 22 July 2011 put the Norwegian health service on its perhaps largest test ever. The evaluations have highlighted learning points, but also concluded that the main health care device in Norway is good. The Health Directorate is following up its work with the actors concerned, and the regional health companies are following up actions on the responsibility of the specialist health service. Examples of measures taken by our government are the establishment of emergency networks, the introduction of a new national medical number and the prescription of triple alerts. The Health Directorate and the Police Directorate cooperate on the implementation of national procedures in the event of ongoing life-threatening violence, which is shortened to PLIVO, and have established a joint circular on the provision of patient information to the police and a joint circular on the situations in which the police may request the assistance of the health services for the transport of civilian ambulance police officers in order to resolve missions. I myself have been present at a PLIVO practice in a large Norwegian mall. It made an impression. It gave a very high pulse, and it was very interesting to see how you trained against a threat, which we unfortunately have to say can be quite real. Then the government has proposed an addition to the Health and Care Services Act to clarify the municipality's responsibility for psychosocial preparedness. That matter is now before the Health Committee at Stortinget. Action is still being taken in the service to enhance the competence of people who have been subject to traumatic events. The municipalities and the specialist health service have made a great effort to provide those who were hit on 22 July, a worthy and good offer. Many have received support and treatment. At the same time, we know, and have learned, that there are still people who do not experience having received the help they needed. In these nearly six years, there has been a significant development in the understanding of psychosocial follow-up after dramatic and tragic events, and we see that it has also increased the awareness of the municipalities, of the audience and of the media. It is important for us that, after crises, accidents and disasters, everyone who needs them should have sound, high-quality psychosocial follow-up regardless of where they live in the country. Equal opportunities work has gone through a great development, much thanks to the considerable efforts made by the national support group after the 22nd of July events to provide peer support for the affected and affected post-terrorist population. The extensive research that has been going on since 2011 helps us to better understand the challenges and needs of those who were affected and what is perceived as the good help. It has been published — and published continuously — an impressive number of articles on this subject. Through the regional resource centres and other actors in the knowledge network, we gain new knowledge that is in the process of providing new practices. As a basis for assessing the need for a new competence, the Health Directorate has carried out a national survey of municipal psychosocial crisis teams — competence, resources, working methods and anchoring. We see that there is still a way to go before we can say that we are satisfied with the access to healthcare for those who need help. I would also like to say that the Government's action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism is, in my view, an important part of the preparedness work, where an important measure is to develop competence in the health sector's work on violent extremism. This action plan has been used by many municipalities to carry out good local work. Health care and the ability of health services to prevent, assist and help is an important part of our overall preparedness and safety work. That is why I would like to thank the inter-pellant for giving us the opportunity to debate this important topic, so that we can highlight the emergency situation also in the area of health.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1869	‘In the new year, all the Councils of State should have notified the National Safety Authority of the buildings, installations, areas and means of transport that may need terrorist protection and security measures. [[NSM]] This overview is important for both police and defence to plan the need, and to know where it is necessary to deploy security forces in the event of a terrorist attack.» The directive was issued in 2001. Three departments had broken it in 2013. ‘This is not acceptable’ says the National Safety Authority. This may mean delays for important terrorist measures. ‘State councils are violating the Security Act’. This is all quoted from the Evening Post on 20 March 2013. The three departments mentioned have not complied with this requirement – the Minister for Oil and Energy Ola Borten Moe has not complied with the obligation, the Minister for Food and Trade Trond Giste has not complied with the directive, and the Minister for Health and Health Jonas Gahr Støre has not complied with the directive. So I'm glad the interpellant is going to leave the debate. This is a theme that is known to you. An open debate on the subject is called for. I'm glad the interpellant is calling for it. Because I have not been able to trace a single comment from the interpellant to the matter for which he was responsible, since that notice. The only thing I've managed to track down is from a debate in this room, which I myself remember well, because it was an announcement I came with myself, and it's from the then Justice Minister Grete Faremo, who had to say in a debate some time later: ‘Of course, the active responsibility to which Mr Werp refers requires both resources and clarification of the constitutional liability framework.’ That's the only answer I've been able to find from that government in a very parallel problem area to which this interpellation invites. And what I'm referring to now happened one and a half years after July 22nd. A few weeks after the government change in 2013, there is a supervisory report on the work on social security and preparedness in the Ministry of Justice. There are serious violations of the governance and organisation of the ministry, and there are serious violations of the coordination role of the Ministry of Justice. There have been embarrassing attempts by the Workers' Party to raise the supervisory report to the current government, but it ended a few weeks after the government change, so that's the last government legacy we're talking about. My point of looking back is that there was a significant lag – a significant lag – that lay waiting for the current government in 2013. And is there something this government has been working on, as the Prime Minister has explained from the pulpit in this case, and in many previous cases, this is – there is no doubt about it – in addition to the 1,049 measures that the police director himself points to are active, offensive and good action in the police. No political themes are at peace with a political debate – it should be lacking. But for those of us who were there, the terrible time in 2011 and the next few years – from the opposition, I can only say that there were no opportunities for us to play political coins or to raise a political debate based on the terrible situation, but we did not, in the understanding that we were going to lift up in stock and stand together in grief. But I demand, when the Workers' Party now raises this matter in the way that is done in this debate, also answers from the Workers' Party. They have not provided a single independent political answer to the problem we are debating. The only thing we can see in their programme is the re-use of the government's already implemented justice policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1895	I was inspired. There has been talk of inaugurals and outlaws in Stortinget today. In the security debate after 22 July and after the Gjørv Commission, the debate was, out of respect, agreed – just enough with an intense and persistent voice, but honest, sober and lowly. No one was tempted to score cheap political points. No one beat himself on the chest in a pleasurable way over his own freedom of mistake. The need for action and improvement was low-level and agreed. One was, and I think one is, agree that one of the most important tasks of the state is to protect the inhabitants, with whom the interpellant began. That's why I'm also so surprised by Jonas Gahr Støre's suggestion in this interview, because if you listen with party-politically unhidden ears, you've heard – at the latest in the hall today – that this government is fully behind the intention that interpellant is calling for. It has been read in the budget proposals in recent years. It has been read in the defence’s long-term plan and at the latest in the revised national budget of the week that has passed. But the questions about the progress of this government in this continuous work, which can't ever be concluded with two lines in the answer, can also be illustrated by the progress of the then government in the spring of 2013 – in which Jonas Gahr Støre was Minister of Health and Care. Let me also follow up on the representative, Werp, who has found some of the same examples that we could all read, not least in the evening post in the spring of 2013, i.e. a few years after the tragic event that woke us all up. It was just reported that the three main state councils had not reported a list of terrorist targets that needed protection, as required by the Security Act. It should have reported it to the national safety authority by the new year 2012. It was Minister of Oil and Energy Ola Borten Moe, Minister of Food and Trade Trond Giske, and it was Minister of Health and Care Jonas Gahr Støre who had not done so – the three who handled some of the most important areas of society in Norway: oil, energy, health and industry. I wish I hadn't been left, after Mr. Gahr Støre's speech and initiative, with a feeling that this was an act from the Labour Party Prime Minister's candidate to doubt the governance of the current Head of Government, to improve his own candidacy – in short, to run an electoral campaign. I really want the consensus and common attitude we all had that this is a topic that we're going to take so seriously that we don't vote out, and use dignity and honesty in the debate – honesty, soberness and lowliness. Everyone in the society of Norway agrees on this matter and the need for progress in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1904	First, thank you to the interpellant for putting an important and necessary item on the agenda. It's true, as the government parties have said from this pulpit, that something has been done over the next four years. But the criticism that has emerged today is in two main areas: Firstly, the big bets have failed or have been pushed on, and this is not in accordance with the big words that were used as criticism by the previous government. The major efforts that the government has not solved are the emergency centre, they have not taken structural action in terms of cyber and ICT security, and there has been no more police force. The Menon report clearly shows that the money is going to meet earmarked measures, not to strengthen police force or to boost large investments. The second point is the lack of transparency that we record. It appears that there has become a characteristic of the lot Right in the case of emergency criticism. The National Audit Board’s assessment of the lack of transparency underpins the government’s desire to protect itself – it is quite serious – was contrary to the Stoltenberg Government’s intention after 22 July, which was then a cross-political value base. We should not only have transparency as our objective; a government should aim to flood all aspects, including in the development of plans and compliance with the Storting decision on security and preparedness for the population of Norway. Several speakers from the Right have been here and talked about the past. It's quite strange to hear such a backward-looking rhetoric from a party that at the time was so cut when it came to criticism. But now the Right has turned. In the position, less openness and continued criticism of the previous government are more important than keeping your own promises. Right-wing justice spokesman André Oktay Dahl told the media after July 22nd that Erna Solberg's personal ability to see details and follow up decisions would make a difference. She had been more ‘hands on’, he said. Today we can establish that he was wrong. The Prime Minister has not been ‘hands on’, and I have to say that I find it somewhat uncomfortable to hear Right here try to personalize a criticism linked to a minister who was then responsible, and a government that went out and said, after this tragic event had happened: let's get transparency, let's get control, let's let some look us in the cards. That's what happened. Now we have a government that says no to openness, that pushes on the big investments in preparedness policy, and that tries to turn the whole debate over to criticism of the previous government. It is not to be ‘hands on’, and it is not at all to take responsibility as head of a country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1923	Let me keep going. This is an important debate. Let me just say that we have a common responsibility. There has been a lot of important work going on. We've agreed a lot, and we're going to stick together a lot. I agree with the representative Henriksen that it is a strange exercise now to hear the Right go back on autopilot and talk about 2012 and 2013 and state councils and who said what when. I recognize everything I was responsible for, and could take an open debate on it. Now we are in 2017 to ensure social security. The representative, Werp, was concerned that we had to refrain from criticising, because they did not – the opposition before 2013. The representative Graham says she would like us not to ask questions about the Prime Minister's executive power, and that it is almost unworthy. If something was done to the sitting prime minister in 2013, it was just that – by the opposition candidate Solberg. And the representative Graham can get the quotes from me if she doesn't have them in her own archive. She also said that you can read in propositions, long-term plans and RNB what's going on. Yes, we can. But what we ask questions about is when it is done, and when the money comes. It's the opposition's role to take the debate on it. This debate has been useful. We're still going to agree on this. We must support the government where necessary. That's what the Workers' Party has done, and we're going to keep doing. I find it deplorable that there is still an opinion about secrecy around the Riksrevision's criticism. If there are any people who have used out-of-court in this matter, there is the National Auditor and National Auditor Per-Kristian Foss in the report of the government. Otherwise, I want to stay around this with cyberdata and shrinkage. It's a serious topic facing our society, where it's hard to reorganize and invest resources in meeting the threats. Here there are many directorates who have a lot of responsibilities, and if we're well organized enough to meet data crime as such, there's reason to ask questions about it. I saw in a place -- I'm not going to stand by it myself -- that the police can investigate computers if they're talking about crime, get up a PC and see if the criminal, the defendant, has committed a crime. But the expertise to investigate data crime as such is almost absent from our police. I think what Sofie Nystrom from NTNU points out today, is worth taking with him. So it is not enough in this context that there are enough policemen in the streets. We also want them there, but in fact we also need more police officers in front of the screens to seal the holes in the firewall. We want to contribute to a debate on the important gaps in social security – those we know, and those who are in a hurry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1938	Thank you for an interesting debate on a very important topic. But I hear that it's approaching election fighting, and then I have to say that one of the things this debate has revealed is the Workers' Party's use of rhetoric, perhaps especially represented by the Workers' Party Vice-Chairman. It sounds as if there is not so much free space for action and free resources in the police districts, means that there is less police force — that earring means less police force. No, that means there are more policemen, and there's been a little less money for cars, equipment and investments. But that means more police force. There's more people out there. There are several police workers – 1,755 more annual work, 900 more police officers, and we go from a police coverage of 1.71 per thousand in 2013 to 1.82 per thousand in 2013. It's important to say that even though you've found a hole somewhere, and we've spent money on what we said in the 2013 election campaign, we were going to do by the government, that doesn't mean it's not police force. It just means that there are more people, and that we have a little bit too little money for the free money. Similarly, when criticising questions of detail management on the one hand, and on the other hand, criticising the fact that the majority did not follow up well enough in the context of police reform on the other. The police reform conclusions of the Grand Council mean that the Council of State must be more detailed than the government initially intended to be, and I expect every council of state I have to follow up what the Grand Council actually decides, and thus follow up the rather detailed instructions given by the majority of the Grand Council. And then there's a little bit more detail control. That doesn't mean we haven't seen the challenges that have now been addressed in this report. That's why it's 295 million. D more for free income in the districts of the budget in the autumn, and we have now added 100 million. kr extra related to a device spot in the budget, because we have seen that there has been an imbalance when we wanted this clear priority of several posts. But more crime prevention and better preparedness will be done by both. Let me say that to culture and leadership is the answer that is given, that there is going to be a separate case, or a suitable case, to the Stortinget, based on a review of the implementation of culture and management in the context of the police reform. We've strengthened on ICT Krim. We've strengthened the NSM. We now have in our work, among other things. establish a common cybercoordination centre between services just to face the very things we are now seeing unfolding. It is true that we also have more competence, but I agree with the representative Gahr Støre that we need even more political opinion in these areas, and that is one of the reasons why I am so strongly in favour of police reform, because it helps to provide a wider professional environment and the ability to strengthen the heavy environments of competence that we need to have stronger units to get.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1953	The debate on substance is closed. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1969	The proposers point out that the next year is 100 years since the end of World War I, and that this should also be marked in Norway, even though Norway was neutral in that war and was not directly affected. The Committee agrees. The war from 1914 to 1918 was the first worldwide war in history. Between 18 and 20 million people lost their lives. The war transformed the borders of Europe. The peace settlement is dated to November 11, 1918, at 9.30 p.m. 11.11. However, neutral Norway was strongly affected. The Norwegian merchant fleet participated in the war on the British side. Half of our merchant fleet was lowered, and about 2,000 seafarers lost their lives. No other country lost as much of its merchant fleet as Norway. The Committee points out that the Norwegian political debate after the war and after the signing of the Versailles Agreement was marked by the strong uprising of the belief that ‘never more war’ should be guaranteed. That's the way it went that's not known. First World War is an important historical event that has had profound consequences on our continent. It is part of Europe and thus also Norway's history, to which direct lines can be drawn today. The government also sees it natural that the end of World War I is marked. The letter to the Committee states that the annual commemorative day is a natural occasion for a marking from official Norway. The defence also prepares certain events related to the 100-year marking. It's a natural occasion for such a selection. However, the Committee believes that this should also be done in a broader way, which could be an important witness to the horrors of the war, the need for a realistic defence, and not least the importance of international cooperation and international institutions as peaceful instruments for resolving conflicts between countries and regions. The Committee, like the Council of State, considers it positive that Nansen Fredssenter at Lillehammer is taking the initiative of a global conference. Such a conference on the dialogue for peace could be a worthy contribution to such a mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e1986	Thank you to the President-in-Office for his statement. It is important to remember the great heavens above what we have proposed. We're not done with the warriors. We have a serious conflict going on in the Middle East, and the need to create dialogue will definitely be there in the future as well. The first world war, on which the case-rapporteur was involved, was not really Norway, but many thousands of Norwegian sailors died during this war, and it is important to note that they must not be forgotten. There is also a lot to learn from the big world conflicts, both about the causes and about the effects, that we can take with us in our time and in the future. Nansen Fredssenter is one of the actors in Norway who have been working with conflict for some time. They have developed a dialogue-based tool that has been tested for many years on several continents. The experience from the Balkans is part of that. Now they work a lot against, among other things. Columbia, and those tried and tested tools, will be very much in need in time. Norway cannot deal with any dialogue and conflict, but we obviously have something to contribute. The Dialogue City of Lillehammer is a new initiative, where Nansen Fredssenter sees that they can use their skills to build bridges and create dialogue and understanding between peoples and between cultures and between countries. That Lillehammer should be the center of it, there's no obviousness. It's a peaceful place on earth, but the important thing is to bring that competence out to more people. There is also an opportunity to bring people from different conflict areas to Lillehammer to take that competence back home. They see a number of different participants in the first dialogue city collection next year, in 2018, and also that a marking of the first world war can be part of it. The most important thing is whether we contribute and support by leading political authorities. We are not talking about large sums of money or a large bureaucracy to establish this. The most important thing is the political contribution to the involvement of national authorities. There's a lot of exciting happening in Lillehammer related to this, because you can see that this can also bring a lot of popular commitment. From cultural activities, from the commercial industry and also from the education sector, there is great curiosity and great enthusiasm, and therefore a cross-political Lillehammer, and also Oppland County Municipality, has joined the Dialogue City of Lillehammer. The Olympic Games have given Lillehammer a reputation beyond the borders of Norway. It also existed earlier, but was reinforced. Norway as a peace nation can complement the activities we want to contribute to the world by building up under the Dialogue City of Little Hammer as a tool and as an instrument and as a pleasant place in the world to meet to create dialogue between people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2001	First, I would like to thank the representatives of Kjeseth and Elvestuen for an important commitment to an important matter. World War I broke out on July 28, 1914. Most people thought the war would be over before Christmas the same year. Together with the other Scandinavian countries, Norway was neutral. Thanks to a strong defense, we managed to keep the war away from most. But of course, World War I also affected us very much, and the main reason for that was that we were a large shipping nation. Supply on Norwegian ships was crucial for the United Kingdom. Throughout the war, Norwegian ships carried vital supplies to the United Kingdom. They despite German submarines waiting in the Atlantic and the English Channel, and not all came through the German blockade. The first Norwegian war crash occurred in September 1914. In total, nearly half of the Norwegian fleet was lowered during the war. About 2,000 Norwegian sailors lost their lives. World War I was an unimaginable tragedy, and millions of people lost their lives. The war led to enormous changes: the Russian revolution, the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire and of Austria-Hungary. A number of new nations were created, the League of Nations was established. Of course, these changes have had consequences that are still noticeable today. But the peace settlement in Versailles gave ground for a new war. When World War II broke out, once again the Norwegian seafarers carried the heaviest burden. Already in September 1939, the first Norwegian merchant ship was lowered, near where the first Norwegian ship was lowered 25 years earlier. Once again half of the Norwegian merchant ships were lowered, again several thousand Norwegian sailors fell, and again several million people became victims of the atrocities of the war. The mariners who survived the war were not accepted as heroes when they returned home, either after World War I or after World War II. The current state council Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen asked in the summer of 2013 for an apology for the way the state had treated the war ropes after the war. It's an excuse I put myself in the back of my heart. When World War I ended, the British authorities wanted to thank the Norwegian seafarers for their efforts and honor them for their victims. On an empty donated by the Defense they set up a memory hall outside the Stavern. There is now a memory of the Norwegian sailors who made an effort during both world wars. The names of the fallen sailors have their place in the encryption. From 8 May this year, the foreign sailors who sacrificed their lives on Norwegian ships under Nortraship also got their names on bronzeboards in the crypt. Two world wars have taught us that freedom and independence cannot be guaranteed alone. The names of foreign sailors who fell on Norwegian ships, names now hanging in the Stavern Memorial, are a strong reminder that we are dependent on our allies. The government believes it is important that Norway marks the end of World War I. The most natural arenas for these types of markings are the national symbols of the victims of the war, the mariners' memorial hall in Stavern and the steam ship «Hestmann». Today, there is only one ship preserved that participated in both world wars. The steamer «Hestmanen» carried coal to the United Kingdom during World War I and supplies to the Atlantic in World War II. Today, the ship is a memorial of the Norwegian seafarers who served during the two world wars. The government granted 12 million in 2014. SEK to put the ship in a sailing condition, and in addition the Hestmanden Foundation has received 15 million. kr from the Ministry of Culture in 2016 to complete the restoration and rebuild it into a museum ship. According to the plan, it has to be opened to the public this summer. I also believe that it is natural that official Norway marks the end of World War I at the Defence Memorial in 2018. There are also, as the rapporteur said, several other events under the auspices of the Defence Agency during the year. Dialogue and dialogue are the main means of preventing conflicts between nations from leading to the use of violence. It's also an important way to remember, not least to remember what led to the outbreak of war in its time. Nansen Fredssenter at Lillehammer uses dialogue as a method of peacemaking work, and it is therefore positive that Nansen Fredssenter also wants to mark the end of World War I. I believe a conference in the direction of the Nansen Centre is one of several arenas that it is natural for the government to participate in in 2018, but we are also open to evaluating participation elsewhere and, as I said, want to have an active attitude related to the marking of the end of World War I.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2029	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2045	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2054	The case concerns a proposal from the Central Party, where the party asks for a stop in the alleged dismantling of the Home Guard. The proposers ask the government to stop all changes to the Home Office until the conclusion of the ongoing land-use study has been addressed by the Stortinget. If the Home Protection System is to be relevant, it must be continuously converted according to the tasks to be resolved. That means that the Home Security we had yesterday is not the same Home Security we need tomorrow. Home protection should therefore be governed, not by budgetary appropriations, but by professionally-military advice and threat assessments. However, the protection of the home also has a deep anchor in the Norwegian people, which may extend beyond the operational capacity, and that in itself is a relevant argument for the presence of the HV. The Progress Party has always believed that Home Security is an important resource for the defence of our country. HV has a nationwide responsibility and has therefore been organised with a view to greater mobility and flexibility than before. HV is an important actor in the emergency work, also outside the Defence. HV is as topical today as it was 40 years ago. The organisation has followed societal developments. HV is relevant both for civil users and for authorities. Local anchoring increases the legitimacy of HV and reduces the distance between cities and countries while strengthening national communities. The adopted long-term defence plan adds to a HV consisting of 35,000 soldiers in the area structure and 3000 in the forces of intervention. It's equal to today's real number of soldiers. The structure adopted is highly professionally anchored, and it shows that the government prioritizes increased training and practice. The progress party is pleased that HV is being added to new field vehicles. This will contribute to greater mobility in the department and ensure a higher operational level. The Progress Party has registered that the Centre Party has recently shown a significant exposure to HV. It's positive. At the same time, I record that the enthusiasm was not as great when the party itself was in government. At that time, the party decided to reduce the HV structure by 5000 crews, to remove HV crew training and to detach HV-16 from the HV-16. The same position was maintained in the 2011 LTP, where the Central Party decided to remove the Reine class vessel from the Sjöheimevertet. Furthermore, the Centre Party cut the intervention force from 5,000 to 300 teams. But it didn't stop there. The protection of the marine environment was reduced and the bottom level for training and training of the HV crews was reached in 2009. However, the Progress Party is pleased that the Centre Party's involvement is back. We all need good forces, even in election years. It is in any case amazing to see how much has changed at the Central Party since the time the police themselves were responsible. This reverse operation showed the representative Navarse to herself when she said on 9 April last year to Nevermer.no: ‘I myself contributed to the handling of the two previous long-term defence messages. Everything looked very good. We didn't think it was necessary to focus so much on the defence." So you have to ask yourself how credible the party's turnaround is. With regard to the future structure of HVs in addition to the adopted long-term plan, it is difficult to conclude today. This year most of the parties have decided at their national meetings that the defence budget should be increased to 2 pst. of GDP by 2024. This is in line with NATO's goal. The Progress Party even decided that the 2 pst. goal should be achieved by 2022, i.e. two years earlier than NATO's goal. If the parties keep their promises, it becomes a different reality. 2 pst. by the State budget means that the defence in 2024 with today's krone value would have been added to the budget for 13-17 billion. kr more per year. Such large additional appropriations will, of course, have a significant impact on defence. The party of progress considers it natural that a reassessment of the defence's arrangements and organisation should then be made. In such a situation, the Progress Party would like to give particular priority to rural power. The role of the HV could then be expanded and organised today, with more practice and training to ensure even greater operational capability. One will then also have financial scope to see HV’s local identity and anchoring in a wider perspective. We're approaching a big shot, and we all know that neither submarines, fighter planes, helicopters nor missiles have voting rights. In spite of this — the government will give priority to making the necessary changes to the defence in order to be able to face complex threats, rapid changes and short alert times.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2078	We live in a world where the challenges of security policy are getting ever closer. The debate on the defence capacity of our country has been given an increasing place on the agenda. The recently adopted long-term plan confirms the seriousness of this debate and, in turn, the need to spend more money on the defence of the Community over the next few years to strengthen our defence capabilities. But despite the large investment in new technology, technological development cannot replace the individual soldier. The expression 'boots on the ground' has had and will also have an important role for the future in the defence of our country. That means we have to have an army and a shelter that is dimensioned in order to carry out our military tasks if a situation should arise. From the Workers' Party's side, our party leader has recently stated that we want to secure Home Security as our own defence. It also means that the Home Office should have a local anchorage and be present throughout the country. The Workers' Party wants to continue the Home Guard as its own defence branch, because the Home Guard ensures a popular defence with a broad and local anchoring. Home protection is important for civil protection and civil-military cooperation around the country and – not least – plays a central role in the protection of property, as well as the very serious revelations of the National Audit Office. We also need the Home Guard to face new, hybrid threats. If we, for example, should be subjected to procedures for infiltration, the local anchoring of the Home Office is invaluable. Domestic soldiers are known locally and know who and what belongs naturally — and not — in their communities. As far as object protection is concerned, we have recently received a very serious report from the National Audit Office, as I mentioned. From the Workers' Party's side, we have been concerned with avoiding unnecessary secrecy and have, like the Riksrevision itself, entered in order to publish as much of the object protection report as possible. So far, the government has refused. Last autumn, the Workers' Party made a settlement with the Government Parties on the new long-term plan. For Homeland, we agreed on the continuation of Homeland District 11 in More and Romesdal. The government's proposal to change the plan from 42,000 to 35,000 was repeatedly justified by the fact that this was an adaptation to the real situation, i.e. the actual number of people in the Home Office. If it is now found that a real cut is made, it is clear that the situation is different. In the defence negotiations last autumn, we from the Workers' Party were concerned that the increase in the defence budget, especially for the Army and the Heimevert, would start as early as 2017. We also got an impact on a significant increase, at approx. 100 000 million. kr, for equipment and exercises in the 2017 Home Protection System.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2095	We see in this document the 8th proposal, or the proposal for a representative, and also in the media that the Central Party has made a special commitment to Home Affairs. All the commitment to the defense is good, but I have to say that it's a little disturbing when much of the argument is done on the wrong facts. Thus, in the long-term plan of defence, a unanimous increase in government's proposal to maintain 35,000 soldiers in the Home Guard area, as well as 3,000 in the forces of intervention. In addition, it was decided to strengthen the HV-16 and HV-17 two northern areas of the Heimeverst. We did, because we believe that Home Security is important in our structure, but also in Home Security, we must be willing to change and adapt to new challenges and the capacity to fill in the threat picture. On 19 April this year, Chief of Defense Haakon Bruun-Hanssen went out and said that the trend of degradation is now turning around. The measures taken by the Right in the government are working. The defence's wish for an economic promise has been heard. At the same time, the Center Party is trying to create the impression that the Homeland Protection is being built down. It's daunting. It may seem like they don't remember their own story. When the Center Party ran in 2009, there was no one – none – who trained in the area structure. This government reached the goal of training in the Heimevertet two years earlier, in 2014. And the Center Party cut the HV budgets by almost 300 million. kr. We've increased the HV budgets every year. Only this year it was increased by 16 pst. The new plan for the Home Guard is adapted to the actual manning, and the actual manning has been stable over time, even in the Central Party government period. So the sum they're now claiming to be able to complete with 45,000 soldiers in the Home Guard is the same sum they themselves cut from Home Guard budgets when they were in government. The number of displayable objects has risen by 40 pst. from last year to this year. That's right. But as Chief Heimevert said in the object protection hearing, it sounds dramatic, but there are actually fewer objects than in 2012. So in other words, the Home Guard is going to secure fewer objects with about as many soldiers as they did when the Center Party crashed. The difference is that they do it with a much higher budget. As Chief Heimevert said in the same hearing, he expects that the operational capacity will increase in the future, among others. as a result of increased resources. We're also going to have a little round on the estate administration afterwards, and I hope it's going to give us an answer as to what the Home Guard should look like in the future, but the premise for the proposal of the Center Party is wrong; the government is not building down the Home Guard. Neither do we in the long-term plan decision – we strengthen it. That is probably also one of the reasons why no proposal is made in this case. So there's a proposal in the hall today that I hope you'll look a little bit closer. After my experience and what I have learned from legislation that we have to deal with, we cannot take up voting on a matter that has already been debated earlier in the same session. But it can certainly be adapted if the proposers so wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2112	The protection of homes shall also in future be a relevant resource in the overall defence concept. We must not forget that today's Home Security is located throughout the country and is the only nationwide capacity in Defence. Therefore, the Christian People's Party in this matter, but also in the consideration of the long-term plan, has warned against a reduction in the protection of the Homeland. We also voted against the closure of the Sjöheimewert. The majority's decision, which I regret to say, is that political Norway will regret. Home security must be dimensioned for its military tasks, but we must not forget that Home Security is an important player in other areas of society. The presence and locality of the Home Office is an important resource for supporting civil society. We are well served with a protection of homes around the country that can assist in accidents, natural disasters and in the preparedness for terrorism. That is why it is important for the Home Office to have a local anchor and physical presence throughout the country in the future. Several others have found that this government, together with the cooperation parties, has contributed to increased budgets, which have made more exercise for the HV soldiers. It's important, and if you look at Homeland total, and as a share of the defence budget, it's a cheap part of the defense that we're now discussing. I'm a HV soldier myself, and I'm allowed to be part of exercises. It's incredibly exciting and instructive. I represent the Upper Seatsdal Homeland. We're working on scrambling and rescue missions, and what I think is extra important and positive about Home Protection is that it's all sorts of professional groups that come together. One exchanges knowledge and has the local anchoring, which means that if something has to be solved, one plays on each other's knowledge and gets different things fixed very quickly. Last week we had the party management visiting Agder, and then we visited the Home Office for Agder and Rogaland. The signals we received from Homeland were disturbing. They said that only in Agder and Rogaland it is added up to a reduction of 6,300 Homeland soldiers to only 3,500, and in Agder it is estimated that one reduces from 2,500 soldiers to 400. This worries me, and it worries Christian People's Party, and it's not just because I'm probably taken out as a HV soldier when one just needs 400 in Agder. It's similar messages from all over the country. Thus, it may also be worth remembering the old HV slogan: Everywhere – Always! It doesn't necessarily look like that. So I know there's a discussion about the numbers. I also find that challenging, because my opinion, even after hearing the comments of the government parties, is that one speaks out the importance of Homeland Protection, and that one should continue what was at the present level – also the representative of the Workers' Party was in the same position. And when the Home Office itself shows that equipment is in so many men and women, there is something that is not right in the argument from the Ministry of Defence. So I also ask the Council of State to answer it more, because to questions from my party leader about the planned degradation, the Minister of Defence answered the following: ‘First, no decision has been taken on the disposal of the HV forces yet.’ From that answer it is all the more special that there is now a planned reduction, and, as I pointed out, quite drastic, especially in my region. It shows the need for the matter to be discussed further in Stortinget. Unfortunately, I record that it is only the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left that in the setting really takes over what is happening in the Homeland Protection. To quote from the setting: ‘The members of the Committee of the Centre Party, the Christian People’s Party and the Left point out that Norway is one of the few, perhaps the only, NATO countries that are weakening their own protection. These members indicate that Finland is now increasing its land power to 280 000 soldiers and that a number of other NATO countries are strengthening their protection of their homes.’ That's why there's every reason to stop the construction of Homeland Protection. It's better that we stop now, and it's actually completely free to leave the equipment with the soldiers until you reach an agreement on the decisions. Therefore, I ask that the Storting today join the halted construction of the Home Protection system immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2138	The Home Security District has a particular central role for the Defence in the overall defence concept, which is part of the nationwide civil-military cooperation. The overall defence concept includes mutual support and cooperation between defence and civil society in the entire crisis spectrum – from peace, through a security crisis to war. The government has launched a land-use plan to assess how army and home security will be organised in the future. This arrangement may result in a home security assessment that is too valuable to scale down. Norway is one of the few — if any — NATO countries that weaken their home security. On the contrary, most countries are now strengthening total defence. When the representative Tybring-Gjedde remembers the Center Party saying so-called "depriority", he should be happy that the Center Party put in government when we did. Departing Chief of Defense Sverre This guy loved the bastard and fight intensely to build down the Home Guard with 20,000 men. If it wasn't for the Center Party's willingness to stand up for Homeland Protection, we would have had a much weaker protection today. And it is true that the security policy situation has changed considerably in the last four years, and that is why other countries are now strengthening their total defence and protection. Putting down Maritime Protection and scaling down Home Protection, as the government is doing now, is not the long-term construction of what total defence Norway needs for the future. It also appeared that the government’s proposal in the long-term plan was based on incorrect figures. In the long-term plan, the government wrote among others:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘In order to adapt the territorial structure to the real situation, the Government recommends a reduction from today’s plan of 42 000 people to 35000 by 2020’. On December 23, 2016, the class struggle revealed that the situation in the Home Office is different from that of the government, by the fact that the government is now conducting a real downfall in the Home Office soldiers, not just so-called paper soldiers that do not exist in reality. It is only the government's responsibility that the structure of Home Affairs is not followed up today. On the defense's website, you can read that by March 24, 2017, there were a total of 41,026 HV soldiers who were trained with weapons available, and that the defense's security centre has 13,000 soldiers ready for home security. On the same website, it says that the Home Security is now starting to scale down the strength structure to implement the Size Decision. This doesn't make a dimed because there's a lack of Homeland soldiers, but to save money. For $300 million. kr may fully finance a home security structure of 45000 soldiers, including modern equipment and the maximum training of all home security soldiers within the home country, under the Home Security Act. When the government doesn't know what Home Secretary Norway needs in the future, because you can't know because you've seen a land mutilation thing going on, why is it building down the Home Corps now? That's the question you have to ask yourself, and the reasonable answer to that question is of course to wait with the reduction of Homeland Protection until you see the outcome of the land-use study, and until the Storting has dealt with it. Then first, a whole defense looks in context. It is wrong to prejudge the decision that Stortinget will do later in discussing the land use issue, and it is wrong to weaken the Home Security. Geir Pollestad has made a proposal on behalf of the Centre Party, which has been distributed in the Chamber. After it was presented, I understand that we should change it somewhat. If the President and the Stortinget allow it, we take out «including the Sjöheimevernet», i.e. that the submission reads: ‘The government is asking the government to stop all ongoing cutting processes in the Home Guard until the Landmaktningare handled at Stortinget.’ That's because putting down the Sjöheimewert was decided in this session.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2163	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2168	I regret the last, but the Left will vote in favour of the proposal. Clearly, the Sjöheim protection system should definitely continue as well. It is a situation of the long-term communication we are now debating. The left was quite clear at the time that we should also make decisions about the country power. There have been a lot of investigations in the past, and there is no doubt that the decisions taken by the majority in the context of the long-term communication are tying up large resources for the defence, whether it be material purchases, aircraft, P8, submarine purchases or, in particular, the movements you make – a completely unnecessary move from And Islands to Evenes and transfers in connection with the educational structure, with unknown costs. We have been constantly concerned that, especially at the stage of last autumn, we will have a situation when we postpon the land force, where it is the land power that is being prioritised, because the cost framework is being fixed. That is why we will also support this proposal. We have had three priorities in the entire long-term plan process. We have to start from what we have today, and as we know, we need a strengthening of the army, we need a strengthening of the Homeland Protection, and we need a strengthening of the Coastal Defense in Norway, which then includes the Sjöheimeverterung. Although there were three parties in favour of the long-term plan, it is not the three parties that make the budget. The budget agreement is made with the Left, Christian People's Party and the government parties, with a strengthening of the defence budget and with a strengthening of the Homeland Protection system on both exercises and training. There is a strengthening in HV-16 and HV-17, a strengthening in HV-11 and also funds for the Sjöheimewert. This was done from our side, with a clear understanding that this – i.e. the relationship with the Home Office, including the Sjöheimeverterung – is a matter to be addressed in connection with the law enforcement. I say "our" understanding. The left's understanding in those negotiations was that this was a question that was to be addressed in connection with the land estate administration, and I have checked some older news articles after the agreement was concluded. I also see that there are news articles that refer to the security of both the Coast Guard Command, the Sjöheimevertet and the Home Guard in this round. But then we still get a situation where you do the absolute minimum of securing the Sjöheimewert with a practice in the north, while, as it also says on the websites of Homeland Protection, there is a downsizing of the strength structure of Homeland Protection. In a situation where we are going to make a decision, a complete decision, about the land-use study – it has been postponed from last autumn to last autumn, as also in the context of the budget – we believe it is quite timely to stop the scale that is. The protection of the marine environment should also have been maintained so that it is possible to make an independent decision for the protection of the marine environment. There is no doubt that with the infrastructure that Norway has along the coast, there is also a need to have access to boats and access to the structure of maritime protection. I'm pretty sure the future is going to show that what is now being built up, will eventually have to be rebuilt. I think it'll have to be done within its own structure, and not just put under the ordinary Home Security. On the left, we will definitely support the proposal and are still equally concerned that the decisions taken last autumn are binding up so much that what we have in front of us is a reduction in land power in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2183	Sometimes you are tempted to repeat the statement that something you repeat often enough is not true for that reason. So there's no degradation of Homeland Protection going on. Rather, the government strengthens the Homeland Protection system. The defence budget will be strengthened by 2.2 billion. kr in 2017. About 190 million. kr in strengthening for Homeland Protection is 16 pst. budget increase. And we've already done a significant strengthening of Homeland Protection before that in this period. If we look back at the period 2009–2011, there was virtually no exercise or training in the area structure of HV, and the forces were equipped with old and partly out-of-date material. In recent years, the government has provided considerable resources for practice and training. Not least, we reached our own set exercise targets and training targets for the area strengths that were to be in 2016, as early as 2014. The Home Guard has introduced new and modern weapons from 2015, and the equipment continues. We have also added other new material in recent years. Now we are in the process of a large-scale investment of approx. 540 million. kr to new vehicles for home protection, which are essential for the mobility of the home protection system. This is because Home Security is a very important part of Norwegian defence. In the long-term plan, there is a separate chapter on civil-military cooperation, where Home Security is dedicated to a considerable amount of space. This is also, as far as we know, the first time civil-military cooperation is dedicated to a separate chapter in a long-term plan. So in the long-term plan, the Chief Home Protection has been given an overall responsibility as Head of Force, and a national territorial management element is established. This, together with the strengthening of the Troms and Finnmark district losses by the provision of personnel, increases the ability to lead the HV forces, increases the ability to coordinate with civil authorities and increases the ability to receive allied reinforcement forces, especially in geographically important areas such as North Norway – i.e. an increased ability to solve assigned tasks. The work on the new long-term plan revealed that over very many years a significant backlog had been built up on maintenance, spare parts, emergency stocks and ammunition throughout the Defence Force, including the Home Guard. In the new long-term plan, the government has therefore initially chosen to give priority to what we already have. Right now there is a large-scale Training Maintenance, where we prepare the material that has not been out of garages and warehouses for many, many years, and that will then work. We're doing it for the host state support battalion in these weeks, we're doing it for the Army and Homeland Protection for the rest of us later, before the summer. It's set of considerable resources, so we're going to be ready with larger parts of our structure. There is already a massive reparation of, among other things, Home-protection vehicle. It does not help to have a larger structure on paper when the number of Homeland soldiers who have been properly dressed and disposed of in position has been around 35,000 soldiers, plus/minus, stable over many years. The most recent figures reported in the regional structure, i.e. the formal reports by the head of defence several times a year, were 36,779 in the area structure in April 2016, 35,276 in September 2016. The filling rate has been stable over time, including during the period of the Central Party Government. In total, the government makes sure that the Home Office is actually equipped and trained. The Chief Home Protection said in the object protection hearing himself that he expects the operational capability of the Home Protection system to be strengthened now as a result of increased resources. I also remind you that former Chief of Defense Harald Sunde, who is now, as I understand it, adviser to the Central Party on defence issues, even proposed a structure in the Heimevertet which was 27 000 in the area structure, plus 3,000 in the forces of intervention. It's a significantly smaller structure than what we're adding today, with 35,000 in the area structure. But his reason is interesting. He says, ‘The proposed changes’ — i.e. the reduction of 27000 — ‘make a clear qualitative choice in which the resources allocated to the Home Security are used to further develop a structure that is well organised and trained according to its primary tasks’. It's the same professional-military assessment that today's head of defense has given, but where we've chosen to keep a structure of 35,000 in the area structure, plus 3,000 in the forces of intervention.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2209	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2215	This debate is beginning to look more and more like a rematch on the long-term plan that we discussed in the Grand Duchy before Christmas, but also the statements of the Council of State were marked by a number of polemics rather than by dealing with the realities of this matter. It is particularly important to present the year 2009, as if it were representative of the red-green years for the exercise and training of the Home Protection System. But my question is about HV-016, because the Council of State was quite clear in its promises that it would be restored if she entered the government position. Has the Council changed its mind on HV-016?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2222	It was, as we also said at the time, something that had to be done based on a professional-military assessment, and there is a lot that has happened after HV-016 was closed in the previous period. Among other things, we have also strengthened the effort forces with more practice and training. We have also now, through legislative changes, made it possible for the forces of effort to be used flexibly geographically across the country to strengthen both the territorial structure and the handling of emerging things. In addition, we have strengthened both the police and the special forces in such a way that they are now funded to stand on national alerts, among others. counter-terrorist mission. So overall, preparedness has improved. Nor has it been desired from the Home Office that the exact 016 department as a department should be restored, but it has wanted to use the staff – competent personnel – who made up the 016-forces, for the other strengths of the structure. In many places it has been done in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2227	Thank you to the Council of State for a very good post. I don't want to be a politician who spreads wrong information or talks down something that doesn't need to be talked down. I think it's a useful reminder from the Council of State that, after all, it's been a strengthening of the Home Security budgets, and that there's more practice and so on. But as I said in my post, there's a discussion about the number. The Council of State referred again to approx. 35,000 soldiers plus 3,000, while today we have probably 45,000 including 3,000 in the effort force. My question to the Council of State is: If it turns out that more than 35,000 are equipped and fully equipped HV soldiers, it is the wish and intention of the Council of State to continue the level at which it is located, or she will continue to have the number down to approx. 35,000?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2234	There is now a work going on in Defense to assess where, in which districts, the majority of the protection forces are needed. It is a purely professional-military assessment made of how to redispatch and decorate. Then there's a little difference between the formal reporting figures, where you count down on the person who's dressed up, trained and disposed of in the strength structure, and what's the plan numbers. They'll always be bigger. Our assessment has been that a home security of 35,000 in the area structure plus 3,000 in the effort forces will be the necessary and proper effort related to the size of the Home Security, and of course we need to assess the other elements we have in the structure that can solve problems with the Home Security. There is no doubt that Heimevernet is an unusually important part of the Norwegian defence. It's always been, and it's always going to be. But we need to adapt to changes also in the security policy situation, which means that priorities over time can be something other than just a high level of Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2241	Thanks for the answer. At the same time, I understand that there are differences in plan numbers, but when we talk to the Home Office, they are very clear that this is not just numbers on paper, but people that they can set up outside the Storting if there is a need for it. Take the example that I referred to in my article: The plans are that when one in Agder – which unfortunately is no longer a separate home protection district, but together with Rogaland – is to carry out de-employment, if those plans are approved, it will go from 2,500 to 400, among others. because there are no defence objects that need protection in the same way as in Rogaland. Is the Council comfortable with two states, East and West, having only 400 HV soldiers? Or is it only professionally-military advice that will determine the number that is going to be in Agder?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2248	Firstly, it is important to stress, as I was in my first answer, that the processes of distribution and disposal are not yet completed in any way. That's why it's too early to say how the final disposal is going to be, but the reality is that we're going to have about the same number of trained and disposed soldiers that we've had up to now. Distribution between districts may be somewhat different from military assessments, but of course also from overall assessments. Secondly, I think it is important to remember that every year there is a so-called tourover on approx. 4,000 soldiers who leave the structure and, as it is called, are dressed. It's either because they reach the 44-year limit or because they've become incapacitated in other ways, and so they're going to leave the structure. This happens with approx. 4000 in a normal year. In HV-08 it has happened with approx. 300 this year. It must not be confused with the process of assessing and disposing of the location of the protective forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2255	It's amazing how different it is between the information that the Home Office itself provides, which is also on its defence pages, and what the Minister of Defense gives. She almost boasts from the pulpit that the forces of the Home Office are at 35,000, even though the government is governed by a long-term plan with a territory structure of 45,000 plus the effort force. Then it's close to asking whether the Council of State thinks it's the government's responsibility to make sure that the area structure is filled. Now the government has the seat of power for four years. Why is the territorial structure not filled up, as it should be – at 45 000, if the speech to the Minister of Defence is correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2260	Firstly, we are not guided by a long-term plan that has the objective of – not 45 000 in the area structure, but – 42 000 in the area structure and 3000 in the effort forces, the long-term plan we have set behind us. We are guided by a long-term plan that says 35,000 in the area structure and 3,000 in the effort forces. That's what we want to prioritise training, practice, dress up and not least have enough equipment to do. That's why we're doing the big promise now, both with new modern weapons, with new field vehicles, with more practice and training – so that the strength we have is real, and so that the strength we have can carry out their missions in a good way. It's exactly the same thing that former head of defense Harald Sunde justified a much smaller protective structure with, just that it's better and more accurate with a trained and trained HV structure than a larger structure on the paper that can't be used. So we're dealing with the formal reporting figures from the defense chief. All governments in the past have done the same. It is in so far as tempting to ask the question back as to why the Central Party did not choose to prioritise and fulfil the structure they had.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2265	It is strange to say that the Council of State believes that one has been guided by a long-term plan of 35,000, and I thought that one was heading for the previous long-term plan until one got his own. I guess that's what usually happens – and he was signed just before Christmas. It is also strange to note that fully equipped and undisposed or over-old domestic soldiers are told to ‘undress’ or to be disarmed. The numbers that were referred to here from Agder are real. This is the Home Office itself that has informed from Agder. Then it becomes a little strange that the Council of State is just talking away from it. Nevertheless, the question is there: why has a not done the job, as the Minister of Defence so intensely expressed before she was Minister of Defence? One would strengthen the army and home security, and that was the main reason why one would not have reconciled with the previous government about the long-term plan that I actually thought she had run after most of her time as Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2272	We have consistently strengthened the Army and Homeland Protection in all budgets and by implementing the measures I have now framed both in my post and in the lines, because we believe it is important to have a strong land power, a strong HV, a strong army. It is important for Norway as part of the defence of Norway. I'm not talking away from the discussion, but I'm referring to the official figures, the formal feedback reports that the head of defense gives to the department. That's what the head of defense did to the former state councils when the Central Party put in government, that's what the head of defence does to us, and that's what we're dealing with by numbers – and then compared to the plan basis. It has been incredibly important for the government that the HV force we have should be dressed up, trained, trained and equipped to carry out the missions it is going to carry out. The fact that we are now investing heavily in both materials, weapons, vehicles and training days is important in order to strengthen operational capability. We're doing organisational steps that also help to strengthen HV, especially in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2279	I think it is a pity that the Council of State will no longer work to have a high-intensity unit like HV-016. I believe that the capacity they had cannot be compared to what is currently in the effort forces; that is something that landmines should definitely go into – whether there is a need for such a high-intensity unit again. One thing is scaling down in the Home Office, and you can discuss numbers, but what's undeniably is that the Sjöheimewert is being laid down – even if you have an allocation of activity in the north even now. The question then arises: How does the Council of State view the capacity and task of the Sjöheimevertet now with boats and equipment to be safeguarded by the future Home Protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2295	First, I just want to repeat what I said in my previous answer about HV-016. There, the defense, by the head of defense and the Home Office, has given feedback that restoring the department as a department is not a priority from the defense side, but using the very good people who were in HV-016 into the forces of intervention has been a priority. This has also been achieved in many places – not everywhere, but in many places. With regard to the Sjöheimewert, it is also the case that the majority of the Stortingen put down the Sjöheimewert. In the last period, the command structure of the Sjöheimeverte was abandoned, as the representative probably remembers. At the same time, it is very clear that land traffic management also assesses how any capacity of the Sjöheimewert can be integrated into Landheimewert — and, where appropriate, used. It is part of the ongoing assessment and investigation and will follow the criteria that the investigation sets out for what are the professional military needs and how to support civil society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2302	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2309	For the Right, the defence of the country and the security of its inhabitants are the most important task of the State. The government has therefore increased the scope of defence in all its budgets. We are strengthening a defence that was down-priority and under-funded over many years. It's rehearsed and retrained. The collection of backlogs on maintenance is required. Spare parts and spare stocks are being filled up, material and equipment investments are in progress, and more will be done – all of this in order to strengthen operational capability. This also applies to Home Affairs. We make sure that the Home Security is actually equipped, trained and trained. Already in 2014 we fulfilled the ambition of 62 pst. exercise in the area structure. 90 pst. of the input strengths are now up to 30 days per year. In the 2017 budget agreement, the Heimeverenst budget is strengthened by more than 16 pst. It's the strongest reinforcement of HV ever. New weapons are being phased in. We invest more than half a billion dollars in new field vehicles, and we have a good plan for the further strengthening of the Home Security. The central party criticises the level of Homeland Protection in the long-term plan, but in government they reduced the Homeland Protection budget by 300 million. kr from 2005 to 2013, reduced the number of HV districts from 13 to 11, reduced HV Special Title HV-016, closed the command structure of the Sjöheimewert and removed the largest vessel of the Sjöheimewert and cut the effort forces. Under this government, however, the protection of the world is considerably strengthened because we believe that a strong protection of the world is important. The strength structure of the Home Office has remained stable for several years under several governments. In the context of the long-term plan, the Stortinget decided that the plan of the Home Protection Area structure should be set at 35 000 plus 3000 in the forces of intervention, a level which is 5000 higher than that recommended by the Defence Manager in the Professional Military Council. This figure corresponds to the actual filling rate of 34,546 crews at the end of 2016. Although the Stortinge in the long-term plan decided to wind up the Sjöheimewert, single capacities in the Sjöheimewert will be able to continue in Landheimewert, so that we can still secure seaside objects and solve other vital tasks along the coast. In order to maintain the ability of rapid response to military missions and to strengthen the territorial structure, the Home Guard intervention forces shall be available throughout Norway, where the need is greatest, with emphasis on the northernmost parts of the country. It is important that the resources and structure of Home Affairs are seen in the context of the other priority needs of Defence. The overall consideration must be that which gives the best operational capability for the Defence as a whole. With regard to the proposal of the Central Party, which has been promoted, it has been formally promoted too late, and it has changed along the way. If it's maintained, we're going to vote against it in the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2330	Home Security is an important part of Defence. Home security is in place all over the country. It has an important task of guarding and securing military and civil objects, but it's also a part of civil defence and that part of the military that's closest to people. This debate is about the kind of preparedness we need to have for the future. The government's response and the government's response are to minimize and look backwards in time. It's about doubting the facts presented by the Center Party, but they don't say anything about 7,000 alleged paper soldiers that the Home Guard itself claims to be real soldiers. The situation is particularly serious in HV-08, i.e. in Rogaland and Agder. So one is going to be halved by the number of Homeland soldiers in these states. Local protests are big. The spokesmen protest. The county councils have protested. This is a change that has no support, and people become uncertain about the will to bet on mobilization and preparedness when one sees half of the solar data going away. What we are asking for in this proposal is that one should wait for the land-use distribution before moving on. But the process goes its way, and why does he do it? Yes, because the government has decided. It has to be built down, it has to be centralised. Even if what's happening in Rogaland is dramatic, it's even more dramatic, what's happening in Agder County. One will have a situation where the Homeland is roughly non-existent in these two counties. I understand why there is reasonable glare with the Right and Advance Party people both on the Agder bench and the Rogaland bench in the Stortinget today. This is not something you are proud of, but it is a result of the policy that their own government is pursuing. Governments usually present a long list of numbers from this government and are very happy. Let me make it clear: it's not like the Center Party is against new weapons and better equipment for the Home Guard Solar Data. What we are against is the powerful degradation that has been proposed. The proposal is not about that, but it is about waiting for the land use. Then it's easy that the Agder states will stand without a home guard. But for HV-08's part, the Haugaland, the Ryfylke and the Dalane in Rogaland will also stand without soldiers, and that is a result of government policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2347	I couldn't let the representative Navarsete run from his story, and I'm glad she's coming to the pulpit after me. It's possible it might seem like polemics, but I think it's interesting that a former councillor claims she couldn't do anything else because she had a head of defense named Sverre Dien, who asked her to make it even worse for Homeland. It reminds me of a government council that was supposed to listen to its ministerial council and could not exercise the policy she believed in, because the ministerial council said something else. I hope that's not how the previous government operated. So all that Navarsete claims that Denen was responsible for – and would make it even worse – is a reduction of 5,000 crews, the removal of HV crew training, the reduction of HV-16, the removal of Reineklass-vessel from the Sjøheimevert, the reduction of the effort from 5,000 to 3000, the reduction of the protection of the Sea's homes and the reduction of training levels to a bottom level. I suppose, then, that the Chief of Defense Sverre Dien is also responsible for Navarsete saying to the nominees.no that they “did not think that so much attention was needed on the defense.” I think that is very strange, so I hope that Mr Navarsete's representative spoke up instead and is not indebted to the policy of a former head of defence, who cannot even defend himself from the interlocutors here. It seems very unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2354	It starts to be a little comical to right one representative after another go to the pulpit and read the same lesson – and look backwards. Once, Erna Solberg said that the Right would talk about the future, and that this government would be forward-looking, but in this debate they are largely backward-looking. Well, that's what they tend to owe us. The representative of the Harek Rivers must remember that the greatest degradation of Homeland protection ever stood in the right hand position in his previous government. The representative of Tybring-Gjedde may also notice that. It was Kristin Krohn-Devold who was Minister of Defence, and one reduced from 83,000 to 50,000 Homeland soldiers. So I thought the Right particular shouldn't be so very tall and dark in this case. I'm never in debt to Dien. His vision has always been to build land power and build a missile defense. That's the difference between the Right Party and the Center Party in government. Today’s government is going a long way in that thinking – even though it is no longer Minister of Defence – as it appears today. So let's see what the Landmact is saying, and what one will do. But then maybe the Right comes in opposition, so it could be that one has a different view than the one in government. The representative Halleraker made a point in his article that there are fewer objects to secure today than before. The Home Guard called an alarm earlier this year, and we've had a hearing on the Control Committee. The Home Guard concluded that they have been allocated 40 pst. multiple key objects. There was a large look-up in the VG, and it was not demolished, as far as I can see to have looked through. There's something about numbers here that I think should try to do a little bit more neatly. So there's a lot of inequality between what Homeland itself says, and what's claimed by the Right's representative. The protection of the marine environment should be absolute. I am entirely in agreement with the Left's representative in it. Our dilemma is that since a concrete decision has been made to put it down in this session, I can't present it today. These are formal requirements. But I also fear a weakening of the Coastal Defense with what is now happening, and we didn't get a response from the Council of State on how she looks at that situation, and who is going to do that job in the future. In addition to what is happening on the defence side, the government has a reform that leads to the merging of states. The good cooperation that has been in the emergency services, among other things in my own country, Sogn and Fjordane, is also at risk of being built up and changed when one no longer has a head of emergency, who gathers the various preparedness seats for a very good and broad overall defence cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2369	Let me start with object protection. As Mr Navarsete is in the Chamber, you have to do the right thing. We did so in detail in the open hearing on object protection. It could be an advantage to read the record from it. The list of key objects has been revised annually since 2012 and the revision in 2012 resulted in a significant decrease in the number of key points. Since 2012, the figure has been further reduced, for example: as a result of concentration of the Defence Departments to fewer locations, such that the need for watchkeeping and securing military objects has been somewhat reduced – also as a result of the introduction of new communication technologies. Then came a new legislation in 2012/2013, which led to narrower criteria for the designation of key points. So despite an increase of approx. 40 pst. in 2016, in the context of the update of plans, the number of key points is well below the levels in 2012 and 2013 and is for 2016 at the level of 2014. This explained to the head of Homeland Protection at the open hearing, where he also said that it could look violent with 40 p.m. increase, but the question is what the starting point is and what the basis for comparison is, as explained in the hearing. So: Sverre Dien has probably never been Minister of Defense, but he was for a period of defense, and like Harald Sunde, who was the head of defense after Sverre Dien, and who is now the adviser of the Central Party, it has been a desire to prioritize resources for that structure in HV – and so far in the Defence for the rest – that has been adopted. It didn't happen under the previous government, it does something to this government, and we've done it consistently from the very beginning. The question then is, what is it that gives you session preparedness? What gives increased preparedness is a structure that's dressed up, that's trained, that has material. That's what provides preparedness, not adopting a structure that is either unfunded or unable to fill up. There has never been any readiness in the defense, nor does it give in the Home Security. This has nothing to do with so-called centralization, but it's about how to best defend the country with both the use of Homeland Protection and the use of the rest of the Defense. Home security is not just about defending neither the country nor objects. So it happens in a joint operating framework, and it happens in an allied framework. I have not been busy looking back. Rather, on the contrary, I have spent a lot of time telling what the government has done, and doing, among other things. the large investments in new weapons, new materials and equipment, more training and training for Home Security. That's what gives operational capability. And as the head of Homeland Security said in the object protection hearing, he was sure that this was going to lead to an increased operational capability in Homeland Protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2382	Now the government itself took the point of object protection, so I don't have to take it. So just a little look over to Sogn and Fjordane and the emergency work, which the representative Navarsete also managed to get into the matter. It is the representative’s own party – the centre party – together with the Christian People’s Party and the Workers’ Party in these counties who have been in favour of this merger, so that Sogn and Fjordane will become part of the Western region. The other way around, the right voted against it. And then there were numbers. There's something I totally agree with the Center Party and the representative of Navarsete that there's a lot of numbers, and there's a lot of wrong numbers, and there's apparently a number of things that you might not have the whole reason to say something about, among other things. Maritime Protection. You can get the impression that there are almost 150-160 vessels ready to go into a situation at any time. It's not like that. It is therefore true that, in the case of ex-propriations of ships, which were part of the plan, it was decided in 2007 not to continue the scheme. In the next few years, the entire system of requisitions expired. After 2007, no pre-requisitions have been sent from HV. In addition, it can be mentioned that the full form of requisitions was suspended in 2010. This is something you have to deal with as a reality. So it's not like there's 150 ships that are supposed to be added to berth; these are vessels that are in civil use and that can be recovered at any time, and they can also be in a structure without the protection of the marine environment being as defined. That's the way it is. The real figure is that the Sjöheimewert has had four vessels at its disposal and two private ones that they have applied for on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2393	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2398	I have to remind the representative Halleraker that the regional reform is the government's project, not its centre party, and that the centre party in Sogn and Fjordane voiced against that regional reform for very many good reasons – not least that we have a state that works very well, including in the field of preparedness. We are afraid to be weakened when one has now moved the police to Bergen, for which the Right is absolutely responsible, and other centralisation measures. The Council of State spoke in its statement that the operative is about trained and trained soldiers. But whose responsibility is it that today we do not have a structure of 42,000 – plus 3,000 – that is dressed up and equipped? Yes, it's the government's responsibility. A talking like it wasn't in the plank. Well, the government has its seat for four years. Those were big words before one joined, about strengthening. We haven't seen so much about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2406	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2422	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2431	It is gratifying to see that there is now a broad political consensus that we need to strengthen Norway's defence capabilities, and that is very positive. We need a solid defense, and we need to set up the defense so that it is able to meet the security policy situation and the modern threat picture we are now seeing. That is why it is very good that we adopted a new long-term defence plan six months ago, which provides for an overall strengthening of defence capabilities and a necessary economic uplift. In the examination of the long-term plan, a unanimous increase concluded with the government’s recommendation to launch an investigation into the country’s power. It was also decided that the government should return to the Stortinget with the results of the study for the autumn, in connection with the submission of the State budget. The purpose of the investigation is to find out how the country power should be set up in order to be relevant and a strengthening contribution to the modern defence. In addition, the investigation shall respond to which investments should be made. The Committee is concerned that the transparency characterising the processes of the defence chief’s professional-military council and the work on the long-term plan should be continued in the field of law enforcement. Proposals from the Left request that this transparency be safeguarded by the publication of the law enforcement system as soon as it is completed. The working group was set up in the autumn of 2016 and has since collected information, analysed and evaluated different alternatives to land power, and then undergone thorough simulations and tests. In the course of the work, three open public meetings have been held in different places in the country, as well as the fact that the working group has published information on the process and regularly updated on the Defence website. The majority of the Committee considers that this has contributed to the public being able to follow the process and that it has been in line with the mandate given by the Minister of Defence. Before the summer, an unupgraded status report will be published that will reveal the dilemmas and issues that the investigation assesses. It will also discuss different solutions. It has also been notified that a major information meeting will be held in which the content of the status report will be discussed. The final results of the Land Power will then be presented in the context of the 2017 State Budget, as requested by the Stortinget in the unanimous decision taken in the context of the Long-Term Plan. So, apparently, there is broad support around this, and what we are dealing with today is a bit like opening doors, because it has been put up with a wide-ranging information and orientation process so that we can look at the different things that have been discussed before the final vote is presented by the government as usual in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2446	From the Workers' Party's point of view, we believe that the government put Stortinget in a rather difficult situation as they presented a long-term defence plan that was about investments in the Maritime Defense and Air Force, while the investments in the Army were to be investigated before the Stortinget made its decision. The reason why this was difficult is that it's common for us to see these capacities in context. We got a long-term plan for Stortinget, where only the other investments were proposed. That was one of the reasons why we from the Workers' Party assessed whether we should at all make a settlement with the government in this case, because we got a long-term plan that was unfinished. However, when we decided to make a deal, it was because we realised that some investments could be made before the fall, that we could start work on fighting air protection. Secondly, we also realized that there was a need for an assessment of the type of investment to be made. We got a clear plan for when these investments were to come to Stortinget. They will come to Stortinget this fall, and then they will be one year late, but the option could have been that it was sent out for further investigation. My question to the Minister of Defence – which I expect she will explain in her statement, so that we can ask questions during the exchange of lines later – is: if we compare this long-term study with an ordinary professional-military advice from the Minister of Defence, we can use the same model. But I want to ask the Council of State to explain how she intends to conduct this land-use study. Is it possible to publish a concrete recommendation from the head of defence, which is comparable to what we have when we have a long-term defence plan? And what partial investigations are available? I am concerned that, as far as possible, we get to be open in this matter. There is a great need for that. But we must not lose the progress of the project. None of us have earned yet another one year's deferral in terms of investment in the Army.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2457	The proposal from the Left on the publicity of the land-use study is like opening doors. The public is given the opportunity to monitor progress in the work, and there are also opportunities to make on-the-go recordings in the process. It has been suggested that information is published and that transparency is practised. Information is provided on an ongoing basis on the Internet and the Progress Party will assume that the proposers make use of this possibility. The proposers claim that information, the possibility of recording and transparency are not the same as public debate. It's a strange statement. The Progress Party is pleased that three open public meetings have been held on land trafficking. The public meetings have contributed to the fact that the process has been known and open to discussion. A popular anchoring and understanding of the choices made is important for confidence in decision-makers. The Progress Party takes the view that the proposers have been active participants in these meetings. There is nothing to suggest that the proposers themselves cannot create a debate on the future country power and thus lead the work done. It presupposes, of course, that the proposers have in-depth competence in this field and, if necessary, that they withdraw professional competences which have clear views on the future structure of the country power, of course within the framework of the party's alternative budget. It should not be necessary to have partial studies if the aim is to provide the preferred land-use structure of the lot. I hope that the proposers will use the invitation to participate in the process and contribute to making the country power better, more relevant and not least give the country power ‘more bang for the buck’. I have to add that suggestions like this I think are petty. I don't think it has much to do with the big political process we're talking about, and I think it's polemics to make a case out of nothing. If you have clear perceptions of what the defense will look like, you have acquired expertise, and you have contacts about how you have ideas and views about the future, you can actually create a debate on your own, as I said instead. It is possible to get in touch with these, come up with ideas and make a debate, have a few debates in the newspapers, have a few debates on radio and television. I am absolutely convinced that the Left too will be able to do so, and I think it is strange that they have thought that they must get something on paper in order to create a debate. It's totally unnecessary, and this is a very small proposal that I think it's a little unthinkable to discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2468	A long-term plan is intended to hold a concrete investment plan for all branches of the Defence Agency, including the Maritime Defense Agency, the Air Force, the Army and the Home Guard. The strange thing about the government's long-term plan was that it didn't contain an investment plan for the Army and Homeland Protection. Why didn't it? According to the government, it was because one could no longer know what the Army and the Home Office would look like in the future. The government claims that it is not possible to get the geographic widget ready before this option. This is a little persuasive. The second most important document on Defence as a Minister of Defence and Government during the four years of a government is the long-term defence plan. This means the government can't do it in 48 months, one must have 49. The fact that the government can't get it done and present the property until after the election, is a choice the government takes, and there's a choice we see very disagree with, and we're tired of. An intermediate report with round formulations on a manoeuvre or an exchange concept is not being presented. The government needs to see to it that the estate services are provided in its entirety with clear recommendations, such as: the number of HV soldiers in Norway, the number of mechanised battalions we shall have, and whether the Army shall have tanks, helicopters and artillery. Then the voters can decide what the various parties think about the recommendation, and what defence we should have. They can also vote on it, and we get a public debate on the matter. By keeping track of the landmanufacturing process, the Right Party and the Advance Party make it impossible for the voters to decide on the development of the Army and the Home Protection before the election. I have asked the government several times if I can get one example of a situation that has arisen in the last year that shows that Norway does not need a strong protection at home, or an army of helicopters, tanks or artillery. I still haven't got a real answer. The central party's clear analysis is that the turbulence we've seen in the last few years, so Norway doesn't have any time to lose. We need to strengthen Norwegian defence today. We don't need a long-term plan that might give us a useful defense in 10 to 15 years. If the government doesn't know what kind of Homelander Norway needs in the future, why is it building down Homeland now? That discussion took us in the previous case, and it was then noted that the class struggle on December 23rd last saw that the government is already breaking down the Homeland Protection system through a large reduction of HV soldiers across large parts of the country, and a liquidation of the Maritime Protection Agency in express travel. What, then, is the mandate of the Landmaktuktgråninga? Indeed, the recommendation must be within the economic framework of the 20-year perspective underpinned by the land authority in the long-term plan. That means one thing: Norway is getting the sweat of the army, home security and defense. Only to secure the Army’s basic capabilities, which all parts of the Stortinget believed were required by the latest in 2015, such as tanks, artillery, air protection and command and control systems, will cost significantly more than the government has seen in bringing together funds for the Army over the next four years. The representative Tybring-Gjedde was scratched in his post and thought this was an unimportant debate. That's wrong. This is an important debate, and I would like to praise the Left for bringing forward the proposal. It's important if people are able to decide what government thinks about as important defenses as the Army and the Home Office, and I don't think it's entirely random that one has informed that it's impossible to arrive at a recommendation before the election. It may be opportune for the government to keep the recommendations of the government quiet and calm after the elections, because it is not certain that it is the recommendation the Norwegian people want in a time that has changed dramatically over the last four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2481	The decision on the Norwegian Land Power is one of the most important decisions to be taken by the forthcoming enlargement. It is already to be taken until the harvest. And as I said in a previous case, it is regrettable that the county authority has not received its assessment along with the rest of the long-term message. Because with the decisions taken there for the Air Force, for the Maritime Defense and for the other strategic capacities, there are large sums tied up with relocation processes and reorganisations, which make it a danger that the investments in and the strengthening of the country power that we need cannot be made, based on the consequences of the decisions that have already been taken. From the left side, we have always been clear that we believe that we need to strengthen the Army, that is. air protection is required and upgrades of tanks and artillery are required. We need a strengthening of Homeland Protection, also with the capabilities of the Sjöheimewert. There is a need to maintain a coastal defence. We have been ensuring that the Coast Guard Command is maintained for the current year, and we are also working for it in the years to come. So it's said that this proposal involves opening an open door. I have to say, I totally disagree. Because that's what Halleraker also refers to, it's not what the proposal is, namely that you need to get the chief of defence's professional military advice. That's what the Storting needs to evaluate. No, we're talking about a status report before the summer. And there's also talk of having an open debate with people's meetings, and you can go into the defense.no to follow the process. As far as I know, it's probably so far on the defense.no a power point presentation on 13 pages, and then it's a brief description of the land power challenges, the last from 12 May. What is absolutely essential is that we have a principle view of what we need, namely that it is the professional military council, which must be the head of the defence, which is what the Storting must have as the basis for its assessments. It is also essential to get an up-to-date summary and conclusion on the images of war and the simulations made in the investigation. Because without the Chief of Defense's professional-military advice, we're in a situation where it's really the department that's making the first shot, and you have a complete investigation that's going to come to the Storting, not knowing what the political evaluations are, and what are the professional-military assessments. So I'm excited what the Council of State will say about what kind of investigation you're going to present, whether it's just the independent investigation, or whether it's still talking about status reports and a running process. I believe that in such an important case, so crucial for the Norwegian defence, it is also absolutely essential that we have an open debate, an open debate that can take place throughout the summer, and that can also provide clarification and clarity towards the new enlargement to be chosen and that will take this decision for the autumn. Getting such an important report directly into a budgetary process, along with what is the rest of the budget, will be impossible to deal with in a good way, and of course also in getting a debate on a country power that is absolutely necessary. But I am pleased that this is a majority, and I am also pleased with the wording that the Committee has, namely that the government is asked not to publish a status report, but to publish the Chief of Defense's national authority and, where appropriate, the various interim investigations when these are completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2496	We see major changes taking place internationally in terms of both technology, capacity and concepts of land power. There is a consequence of a change in the security policy situation, a change in the needs of the defences of the different nations, and, of course, changes in the alliance framework. For the Norwegian country power, the issue of response capacity, mobility, protection and firepower in particular is crucial for debate. The development of rural strengths has been the subject of debate within the Defence for a long time, and a thorough review of our own land power is necessary before we make important and, in part, irreversible choices. For this reason, it was a unanimous increase which, in the course of the examination of the long-term plan, agreed that the government would come back with the results of the investigation and related proposals in the context of the review of the budget for next year. What the government intends to do is to make a separate proposition in the context of the State budget. The reason is that it is a government wish that the Storting should have the opportunity to deal with the matter for a longer time than for example. to be bound by tight budgetary deadlines. That's why it comes as a separate proposition. The previous long-term plan was primarily about the acquisition of fighter aircraft and the choice of fighter base. This does not mean that the development of the other defence sectors has stopped, and it has also led the government in this context. This long-term plan is much more extensive than what has been common, and also deals with several issues, but it was necessary to carry out an additional study of the country’s power. At the same time, it means that investments in fighting air protection, in transport armoured vehicles and in CV90 are going well, and the government has put these investments into operation. So in addition, we're doing investments for more than half a billion dollars in materials for Homeland Protection. It may be based on a misunderstanding when representatives from the Left say that this should come as a separate professional-military council, or that this is now being completed. The government has shown that this is an integrated process in the ministry. We have a so-called integrated strategic management in the department. Let me then say something briefly about how this work has been put up. Until now, the working group, for which the head of defence is formally the leader but which is managed daily by Brigadier Aril Brandvik, has obtained information, has analysed and evaluated various alternatives, which have been carefully simulated and tested. In the coming months, work is under way in a synthesis phase, and work is to be carried out towards October, bringing together the whole picture for an overall assessment and recommendation. The Chief of Defence must address a wide range of issues, as the national authority responsible for law enforcement. The rural administration has provided extensive information and transparency in the process. Information is continuously displayed on the defence.no, including briefings and up-to-date background documents. There are a number of open meetings with great interest and broad participation, at Elverum in February, at Bardufoss in March and in Oslo week before Easter. The feedback is very good, and the lectures that have been given are also online. The transparency of the working groups on current challenges to rural power and the alternatives assessed are highlighted in particular. In addition, a large amount of information is provided to stakeholder organisations, municipalities, county councils and other interested parties, and the EEAS' Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence also received its own briefing on 6 April from the chair of the working group. It is also, as many people have been concerned about, that the working group should provide a status report before the summer. It will also be followed up by a major debate meeting, and it is important, because where the report will make both the dilemmas and the issues being considered and different solutions will be discussed, but it is then too early to conclude at that time. The representative of Navarsete was concerned that it was important to strengthen the defense today. Yes, that's exactly what the government has done, and it does – 2.2 billion. kr in strengthening in the 2017 budget is a historic strengthening. It is set by approx. 33 B.C.E. until 2034. It is not set aside for either marine patrol aircraft, submarines or other capacities; it is earmarked for land power. And when the representative of Navarsete says that Norway is going to have a weakened army and a weakened shelter because this is going to happen within the financial framework set aside, it is with respect to report untrue. The strongly increased frames, approx. 180 B.C.E. kr over the next 20 years, is what makes all these investments in and the strengthening of the Army, the Home Office and the rest of the Defense possible. It was not possible under the budgets of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2521	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2526	I note that the Minister of Defense is falling for the temptation to keep working with polemics against the previous government. I think it is a little strange based on the nature of this matter. So her government couldn't bring a trade-military advice when it came to investments in the army, to the Stortinget. It's the government that has brought us into this difficult situation. It must then be said that the Storting cannot accept less transparency in the issue of investment into land power, although it has become a postponement of which investments are needed. That is why I would like to ask the Council of State quite specifically: will there be a technical military council from the Chief of Defence on the future of the country's power, and is this the report to be presented to the public in that case, not to the Stortinget, in June?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2534	Firstly, in my opinion, a government council cannot answer to what is both faulty and quite gross accusations from other parties against a government. It's not polemics, it's simply a way to get the facts right. I believe that having a land jurisdiction that is necessary in order for us to ensure the best provision of land power for the future in a joint and allied perspective is not to be in a difficult situation. On the contrary, there is a very good and fruitful process that I believe will give us a better starting point for the development of land power than if we had not taken into account all the major changes that are taking place around us. Thus, it will not be an isolated professional-military advice presented, but an assessment by the working group on dilemmas and problems and also discussion of different solutions. That's because – as I said, and that's been known for a long time – this is going on as an integrated process in the ministry. I believe that it will provide a very good basis for the public debate, and that the Storting can also be involved in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2543	What is important to ask is who is responsible for the report being submitted. Is there a political council, where the Minister of Defence has gone in and edited what the public should know, or is it the head of defence – that is, a purely professional military council that will be presented in this report? I understand that it is difficult to compare with the professional military council presented by the defence chief in an ordinary long-term defence plan, but is this a professional council for which the defence chief is professionally responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2550	It is quite right, as the representative says, that this cannot be compared with the professional military councils that the Heads of Defence, at least since the millennium, have presented as part of the preparations for long-term plans. Then the head of defense is in the role of head of the department and delivers his input and advice. In this context, there is an integrated process, but the head of defence is responsible for submitting this status report. He's doing it as he leads the investigation formally. And it's the working group under the leadership of Brigadier Brandvik who largely also outlines the content of the status report. It is based on what has been presented from both background material, dilemma presentations and discussions so far in the process, and there has been a great deal of transparency about everything that has not been graduated and, for example, about it. are the results of various classified games that have been made and of analyses and scenarios. Everything else has been very open, and it has been – and I'm glad to see it – surprisingly popular to go into the defense.no and both see lectures and read background material.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2555	It's not surprising that there's a lot of people on the defense website reading, because there's a big commitment to defense by day, perhaps bigger than it's been in the past. Of course, it's related to the security policy situation and what's happening around us. When governments and representatives from the government party constantly point back to earlier times, one must also go back and get involved in the situation that was at the time. It has been a great change, and it also tends to underline the Minister of Defence when it is like that. What I feel is that we don't get any answers now, is simply whether what is presented before the summer, is the defense chief's advice, because he's the one who coordinates this. After all, there is a need to coordinate work, even if it is an integrated process, which has been said many times. Can we expect the head of defense to support what is being presented before the summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2562	I replied to that in the previous line. The head of defence is responsible for what is being presented, and the head of defence is the chief of the work done. So it's the working group, under the direction of Brigadier Brandvik, that carries out a lot of the daily work on the mercenary. I believe it is important to be aware that even without changes in the security policy situation, the defence was previously underfunded, and that was for a very long time. There were huge delays in maintenance, emergency storage, ammunition – at all that is needed to make the defense work. It's just that the changed security policy situation has made us test and use the Defense more. Then you also reveal the major defects that were there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2569	It is also true that when our soldiers have shared in Afghanistan and other places, they get the first-class target. That's right on the defense minister as if we've had a defense that's been down to counting before she entered the department. That's actually not right. But leave it alone. What I'm going to find out is that what's being presented before the summer is the head of defense behind it. I ask the question again: why is it so important for the Minister of Defence to say that this is not comparable to his professional military council, because behind his professional military council there are also many distributions? It's not like he's sitting on his lair's chamber and writing the professional-military board. It was said in a previous answer that this is not comparable. It should be, because this is part of the long-term plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2576	Yes, and the defence manager was given an additional task in the context of the long-term plan, namely to develop a law enforcement agency to take account of the major changes that have taken place, which means that we need to re-examine the land force in order to ensure that we get the most relevant and best land power in the future. There is no doubt that a country such as Norway is dependent on a strong country power. We've always been, we're always going to be. But it must also work well in a changed security policy perspective. It must work well in a joint operating framework and it must also work well in an allied perspective. That's why we're doing this investigation. It's, as I said, a different kind of process than the professional-military process. It's a very comprehensive process that covers all parts of this, and here we're using the integrated process, which is a normal process in a department with integrated strategic management, where we're working on this. And, of course, the government won't make decisions until we've seen and evaluated these different sides. So just.... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2583	Ola Elvestuen - to the next line.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2588	Then maybe I can take it in the answer to Elvesuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2593	I would also like to address this question of what the role of a status report really is, versus getting professional military advice from the head of defence. I'm going to try to ask the question correctly: isn't the Minister of Defense concerned that the process you're about to set up, i.e. an integrated process without any professional advice, is involved in undermining the position of the head of defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2598	Firstly, we have integrated strategic management in the department – we have had that for many years. There is a system that exists to be used, and I believe that neither the defense chief nor I feel that the assignment he has received would in some way undermine him – on the contrary. It's a very important mission. We put a lot of emphasis on it. The status report will not be the finished product, but it is a status report that points to dilemmas, different solutions and different assessments that are being made and must form the basis for a further debate. I think that's important, because there's a lot of commitment – and I'm very happy that there's a lot of commitment – both around the county and for the defense for the rest. Then I want to add what I wanted to say to the representative of Navarsete: it is absolutely right that our soldiers in Afghanistan and those who are out in all other international operations have got and get good shots. I'm very proud of them, they're doing a great job on behalf of Norway. But the reality is that in the last period of government it was very much the tasks that were prioritised, partly at the expense of national preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2606	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2613	I would just like to add a few words about integrated management, because it is clear that when integrated management was launched in 2003, many of the warnings were at the time that the distinction between the professional-military and the department's role as a leader in defence was going to be erased. I would like to say that if, in a matter as important as the land-use study, that is, the last leg of the long-term plan, we are not to have independent assessment and advice from the head of defence, we must start to re-evaluate the whole system. We need to get back a greater distinction between the position of the head of defence, who is to give the professional advice, and the role of the ministry – in order to make policy assessments based on the Council and the position given to the Grand Duchy. I think it is absolutely vital for a big deal to know what is the professional-military assessment. It's the Chief of Defense's responsibility. There is no contradiction between that and having the co-location you have today, but that you still have a clear distinction. If not, it is clearly a risk that it will become the department as a retailer down in the defense, and that you will have a mix of roles, with the department and what is in the defense, and that over time you will have defence chiefs who will have a less obvious role and a weaker position as the head of the establishment. So this proposal is definitely important to provide transparency about the process we are now in towards the harvest, when we are going to decide on the land-use study, but it also shows that it is important to look at the completely principled position that the head of defence should have as head of department, and the relationship between that role and that which is the department's governance through the integrated management and the head of defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2622	This time we had a very good time on a long-term plan. After all, professional advice was speeded up for more time. Then we got the long-term plan too late, and without the land force. But now we're in the situation we're in, and then we all have a responsibility to bring the process forward, so that army and home security get the investments that the Storting has made through the long-term plan. It is then that a proposal has been made here today to publish the Chief of Defense's national authority. As I understand it, the head of defence is responsible for the report to be presented in June. In this context, it will be the closest we come to a military professional investigation for which the head of defence is responsible, and what we can compare with a professional military council. I just want to ask the Council of State if that is the case – that this is a document for which the head of defence is professionally responsible, and on which the Minister of Defence himself has not been in and edited and amended – that this is something that is not communicated in discussion in the Stortinget, but that this is something that the public is told about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2629	To answer the last question first, which I have also done sometimes now in the Chamber: this is something that the working group, it is formally the head of defence who is responsible for. So it is not a finished product, it is not necessarily the final technical council either, but it is a status report on where we are now, what assessments are being made, what solutions are being assessed but not concluded – and that is the basis for this debate. I think that part of the representatives, especially from the Central Party and the Left, may underestimate the complexity of the work done on the country administration now. It's a lot of work, which requires considerable effort and considerable insight. Scenarios and theories are required, and there are many different perspectives and aspects that need to be addressed – from the cooperative to the ally, and not least the long-term perspective, on what gives defence capabilities today versus several years, and what action needs to be taken. Here, as I said, the government has responded very clearly to the need both for the Army and the Home Office for enhanced appropriations, for reform, for modernisation and for investment. So I'll just finally say a few words about this, which is linked to the head of defense. The Chief of Defence has two roles in an integrated strategic direction: he is the head of the department, and he is also my and the government's closest professional military adviser. That's the two roles the head of defense has, and that's the two roles the head of defense takes, and I think he does that in an excellent way. That's the system we have. And then you could be like that or not like that, but that's the system that we have and that we're operating on. There are now a total of 13 issues on the defense.no, and all the people's meetings have been filmed. There are relatively long sequences, but they have as I said turned out to be incredibly popular to look at. That's something I take as a very positive sign, because that means that the commitment is strong both for the land power as such, for the investigation, for the different conceptual assessments that are made, and not least for the major changes we see in the approach to land power and joint operation, really in very many countries, many of them our closest allies. I initially mentioned the four major challenges that have been pointed out. It's mobility, reaction ability, endurance and firepower. These must be answered in a good way to ensure that we also have a relevant and strong land power in the future, which can contribute jointly and ally to the defence of Norway and the defence of allies. Then you have to dry to take over that when changes happen, we also have to dry to change. If we do not assume a great responsibility for our country power becoming irrelevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2642	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2647	I don't think the Left at all underestimates the complexity of this, but we don't start with blank sheets either. For many years, investigations have been carried out into the country’s power and military structure in Norway. It is probably five or six that have been implemented from 2011 until today. What is crucial in this matter is that you have a fundamental idea about what the head of defence is, and the role he has as an adviser. Just because the head of defence has the two roles, it is so important that the role of the head of the establishment is made clear, and that, on the part of Stortinget, we get the professional military advice in line with what we have against the department. It is then possible to hold the debate in public space, and it is also possible to have a clear distinction between what is a subject and what are the political assessments made by the ministry afterwards. It's right and possible to do this at the same time. We have to see that while the head of defence gets this role, we make a larger division whether it's the Police Directorate or other areas of society. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2654	The representative Anniken Huitfeldt has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2659	In order not to slow down this case and add up to a new investigation, I believe that the report to be submitted in June is the closest we will publish the Chief of Defense's law enforcement in that context. If we don't have to enter a whole new process. We must not lose pace here. When a report is due to be presented in June, it is the closest thing we will contribute to something that we are all concerned about, namely public opinion and public debate on the future of the country's power.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2664	I'm not going to extend the debate any particular, but it's being very focused on the defense chief's professional-military advice. The Chief of Defense has submitted his professional military advice once. He did so in 2015. There was also the Army subject to the Council. So we've had a political treatment and said that we have to put a foot in the ground to get a completely up-to-date assessment of this. That's what's going on right now. The Chief of Defense's professional-military advice tends almost on the billionth what now the majority in this Chamber has entered into the long-term plan. Otherwise, I must be allowed to wonder, at least a little bit, that one is now so deeply concerned about what the head of defence thinks in this matter, when in almost all other matters relating to the LTP one almost undermines his integrity on other issues – as then the majority has chosen to have confidence in.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2673	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2687	On the basis of the second sentence of Section 22 of the seventh paragraph of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, the Energy and Environment Committee requested a debate on the follow-up to the Paris Agreement. At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President will also draw attention to the inclusion in the Storting Rules of Procedure of a provision relating to speaking time for such debates, by allowing one representative of each party access to an unlimited number of posts. These speakers have been notified to the President in advance. Members of the government participating in the debate will also have access to an unlimited number of posts. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2700	Correct!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2705	From the Committee we have asked for an own-initiative debate on the follow-up to the Paris Agreement, based on the description of follow-up provided by the government in the budget for 2017. With regard to the Paris Agreement, it is essential that an agreement is reached. It shows a change of pace in international work, but it also in many ways reverses what is the policy of the international climate work from the past, where new initiatives are needed to establish an agreement, to the present day, where it is about how individual nations manage to implement their commitments. But it is a fact that the national contributions are far from being sufficient to reach the Paris temperature target. The emission cuts notified through the nationally determined contribution of the countries represent only about one third of the total. 25 pst. of what is needed to keep the heating below 2 degrees, and you are even further away from the 1.5 degree point, which you agree to reach. It is therefore essential that all countries, and especially the rich countries of the world, adjust their ambitions in nationally determined contributions to 2020. It is positive that, in the context of the ratification of the Paris agreement, the Stortinget asked the government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal for reinforced climate objectives in advance of the dialogue to be held in 2018 on how to move forward with the objectives. A process under the Paris Agreement is to increase the ambitions of national contributions before final notification by 2020. As pointed out by the Storting, the Paris Agreement requires national contributions to represent a country at all times the highest possible ambition. The agreement also provides for the rich countries to take the lead both in cutting their own emissions and in contributing to climate finance. All countries must explain in their national contribution under the Paris Agreement how the contribution represents the highest possible ambition of the country and that it is in line with their fair share of global efforts. Norway’s follow-up to the Paris Agreement must also be based on this and explain how Norway can deliver reinforced climate targets by 2020 that are in line with these principles. The enhanced temperature targets of the Paris Agreement must keep global warming well below 2 degrees and aim to maintain it at 1.5 degrees. The Paris Agreement encourages developed countries to scale up their climate finance to developing countries as soon as possible, with the target of 100 billion. US dollars annually from 2020 are reached. This is a key element of the agreement and is important in contributing to the realisation of emission reductions in developing countries. This is one of the uncertainties arising from the Paris Agreement, especially with regard to the role of the United States and what expectations we can have in the years to come that the United States is contributing to this 100 billion target. dollar. It is gratifying that in the answer from the Council of State to this very question, there is no sign at present that rich countries do not comply with their obligations. But it's clear that this is one of the uncertainties we have in the future. The nationally determined contribution should cover the whole of Norway’s contribution to international climate action and not just to emissions cuts in Norway. Part of the Paris Agreement which is not mentioned in the government’s statement on the budget is Article 6 on market mechanisms. In the regulatory debate, Norway is actively working to include the funding of REDD+, to which Norway is a major donor, in the market mechanism under the Paris Agreement. This would mean that support for REDD+ could provide emission rights for the country providing financial support. Although the government is clear that Norway will not use emission rights generated by REDD+ to meet our 2030 target, including REDD+ in a market mechanism under the Paris agreement would mean that other parties or actors would be able to avail themselves of such emission rights. On the left, we are concerned that Norway needs to work to keep REDD+ out of a future allowance market. If REDD+ is made part of the quota market, instead, the conservation of rainforest will be part of the achievement of existing targets and any forest emission reductions will be offset by correspondingly reduced efforts elsewhere. Preservation of rainforest and cut emissions from fossil energy are two different things that should not be mixed together. The use of coal, oil and gas causes irreversible damage to the climate because it emits CO 2, which remains in the atmosphere for hundreds of years and to some extent thousands of years. By contrast, the conservation of rainforests is reversible. President, I think my time is running out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2736	When we got the Paris Agreement, it was probably the closest thing we could get to a climate-kick-off, where the message was really clear: we have to do the job, and we have to go home and do the job. It was the main message that got stuck. In this way, we have created and joined in Stortinget a framework that we believe is good – we will do the job together with the EU. And the objective is quite clear: we're going to cut the greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst. That's twelve more years, so far a little bit more. That is why, of course, there is an urgent need for concrete action that works, which means that with a stronger voice than we can possibly reach, we can also, with authority, focus on the international debate. In the statement by the government that came to the Committee dated 27 April 2017, it states: ‘The Paris Agreement and the Paris Decision mandated the Parties to provide guidance and legislation to make the provisions of the Agreement feasible, to support progress in their efforts and to help the Parties develop clearer and more ambitious objectives through good incentives and processes.’ So my question is, are we there? I think it's right to take some of this debate right on that as a starting point. Has anything happened nationally in this area? I believe that as a nation we are too fat, and that we are not clear enough. The working party has long pointed that out. We presented over 40 climate proposals, concrete proposals in transport, industry, agriculture and forestry, in February 2016. We invited you to a broad settlement. Of course, the Right Party and the Advance Party were not in it. We didn't get a broad settlement that time. In our 2017 alternative state budget, we presented our climate package. We pointed out the sectors in which we wanted to cut emissions. We pointed to the measures we wanted to take, and we also fixed the emission cuts that we had proposed. And we didn't least do our budget priorities in line with this. Our actions in our alternative budget were well received, not least from the environmental movement. When we read the statement on the follow-up to the Paris Agreement, it's obvious that what we're asking for and thinking about is action nationally just to improve our position internationally. But in the government's statement, it's primarily international developments that point to it. Of course, international work should not be underestimated, which is crucial and important in relation to it, and I agree that ‘setting up a good process around the facilitative dialogue so that it can serve as a good platform for strengthening countries’ climate work’ is important. But now that the Committee has asked for a debate on the follow-up to the Paris Agreement, at least we in the Labour Party hope that we can have a debate now on how to achieve our goal of 40 pst. emissions cut by 2030. We've presented our plan, and we're waiting in suspense for what the government will do. Then we record that now – in the twelfth hour, at the end of a majorisation period and as we approach new adjustments also related to the Paris agreement – we will have a climate announcement presented, a climate announcement that Stortinget is not given a position on, a climate announcement that Stortinget is not going to discuss during this majorization period. There are questions about why such an approach should be taken. Why has this not happened before? Why has it been so difficult? It's hard to see. The second is that, through our relationship with the European Union in terms of climate, we should have clarity on this, and the agreement should be in place in 2016, last year. However, in the spring of 2016, the Council of Right-wing States could tell that the agreement with the EU would still not be in place during 2016. Negotiations would end in 2017. The government now writes in the revised national budget that it is expected that the legislation will not be adopted until late 2017 or early 2018. Two years have passed since the adoption by the Storting of a joint implementation of the climate objective with the EU, the basis for our follow-up to the Paris Agreement, but we do not yet know what it will be. We are still waiting for absolutely essential clarifications: is it going to be a bilateral agreement? Will there be a protocol 31 approximation? Or does it become a normal inclusion in the EEA Agreement? These fundamental questions are unanswered. It's time to follow up on the Paris Agreement, too, that we're able to answer some of what's national, on our home arena.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2756	As of today, 144 countries have ratified the Paris Agreement. The optimist can claim that we are now no longer discussing whether climate change is real, or whether we are going to do something about it, but how and how fast we are going to change. Norway must also answer that, and I assume that it will be a bit of the back cover for the debate this evening. The Paris Agreement was strongly sought by Norway. For a small country with an open economy and dependent on international trade, we all have to make use of the fact that the majority of countries agree on the climate policy framework. Therefore, Norway has been a driving force in international climate negotiations under changing governments. It is worth recalling that the Norwegian delegation in Paris worked for a more binding agreement than was agreed, but at the same time we should be pleased that the Paris Agreement confirms an ambitious goal of keeping the global temperature increase well below 2 degrees and endeavouring to limit it to less than 1.5 degrees. Our national contribution under the Paris Agreement is a registered target to reduce emissions by at least 40 pst. by 2030, which we will implement with the EU. It is a goal that is in line with the two-degree objective of the agreement. In many ways, this marks a time gap in Norwegian climate policy. We've never before had an equally binding target for emissions. The Government has announced that a climate notification will be submitted before the summer, which will present an overall strategy on how Norway will achieve the objective of the Paris Agreement. At the same time, we will adopt a climate law that legislates that Norway will become a low-emission society by 2050, and ensure that we receive regular updates on how we are achieving our goal. The law is also inspired by the Paris Agreement system of five-year reviews of the status, which will strengthen our ability to follow up the objective by 2050. We have lacked a good framework for Norwegian climate policy. With the Paris Agreement, the EU commitment and the Climate Act, we have taken a long step in the right direction to cut emissions and put Norwegian climate policy into a system that allows good choices to be made as politicians and follow developments more closely in the years to come. I would nevertheless like to remind you that climate policy is not a Norwegian championship. If we are to tackle the climate challenge, it requires international cooperation. When Norwegian climate policy is so closely linked to international processes, and in particular to the EU, the measures to be adopted at home must be harmonised with the international framework. Norway is in dialogue with the EU on our common fulfilment of climate objectives, and we are a driver for strengthening and improving the tools we already have. When Stortinget ratified the Paris agreement, the government became, among other things, asked to provide a summary of the requests contained in the Paris Agreement and how these should be followed up. It was done in the state budget last year. It is encouraging to see how Norway is, in many areas, a leading country in international climate change work. For example, we have set ambitious targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, covering the entire economy and commitments we already have under the Kyoto Protocol. We are also the world's leaders in supporting the work of caring for forests that bind large amounts of carbon in developing countries. Norway has been a driver in the design of the REDD+ framework, which is an important part of reducing deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries. Last but not least, Norway is also a major provider of climate finance internationally, which is also an important element of the Paris Agreement. Norway will follow the agreement, and the climate action we are now implementing will help us to be on the right track. Emissions in the non-quota sector have decreased three consecutive years. New estimates from the Ministry of Finance show that the distance to the 2020 target, which was 8 million tonnes when we came into government in 2013, has now shrunk to 2 million tonnes. This shows that the policy works, but we also need to move on from here to succeed in the ambitions we have committed ourselves to through the Paris Agreement. Norway is a country that has taken the climate challenge seriously for many years. It may therefore not be so strange that Norway was one of the first countries to ratify the Paris Agreement, but in the last year there have been several challenges internationally. First of all, it is now uncertain how the United States – despite having ratified the agreement – will follow up on the agreement. The President has announced that he wants to withdraw the United States from the agreement. We don't know yet whether it's actually going to happen, but it worries me, and there's at all doubt about the role of the United States in the future climate work is very bad. In any case, there should never be any doubt that Norway is firmly behind the agreement, that we will work for it to be strengthened further, and that the ambitions of the countries will be increased. We know that there is still a large gap between the overall contribution of the countries so far and what is required to achieve the objective of the Paris Agreement. We will continue the international work and dialogue with the parties to the agreement in order to succeed in combating climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2785	During the Paris climate summit, the world’s nations were able for the first time to gather around an agreement aimed at limiting the global warming. This agreement was described as historic and is intended to mark a shift in global climate policy, but it is still too early to conclude that the agreement will mark the start of a new era, or whether it will remain a symbol of the lack of power demonstrated in the face of global climate change. What will determine this is how we fulfil our obligations. Now we are going to start implementing the Paris Agreement in our home policy through participation in the EU programme. A significant factor in this is that the transport sector has to take a substantial cut. Success in the non-quota sector is not possible without the success of cutting emissions from transport. That's where the emissions are highest, but also where the potential is greater. We need a faster transition to low- and zero-emission cars, increased investment in public transport and goods from road to rail. The transport sector is clearly the biggest challenge in the future, but emissions have to fall in all sectors. In examining the state budget for the current year, climate policy became the most difficult. We remember that the government launched its ultimatum about the so-called car package, which was very provocative and created many extra rounds before we finally got into place with a fairly good result. Climate challenges, not to say the notified climate disaster, have been discussed for decades. For many decades, in our part of the world, we have been dealing with action, but rightly so: the Paris Agreement was a historic milestone, and a great deal of political action has been taking place in Norway in recent years. We saw from the budget debate on climate policy that this quickly becomes an exercise for the bottom of tables and calculations and disagreements about the calculations. The debate is rapidly becoming so technical that ordinary people fall off. We need the specialists in the climate debate, and there are many technical calculations that are important here, but we must not lose sight of the fact that it is basically about justice – globally and in a generation perspective. Norway is not the one who pays the highest price for the waste. We notice more extreme weather, less skiing in winter and more rain in summer. It is the people in the countries around the equator who are already paying a high price, and who are at risk of paying an even higher — yes, disastrously high — price, and it is not those who have brought the CO 2 balance into the atmosphere into obscurity. Susy Wandera, secretary and prime minister of a youth initiative against climate change in Kenya, writes to the Christian People's Party: ‘The global temperature data show that January and February 2015, 2016 and 2017 have become warmer and warmer. This has led to a reduction in rain and is an important reason for the severe drought that we experienced in the first quarter of 2017. Much of the vegetation is already stressed by the marginal water conditions in many places and is particularly vulnerable to climate change. The consequences of minimal or no precipitation in the north and along the coast are reduced yield or no crop, starving or dying cattle and also human suffering and death, as well as uncertainty about food supply and escalating conflicts between population groups. Constantly increasing uncertainty about living conditions due to climate change also weakens people’s strength to deal with other crises that may arise. Kenya estimates its annual climate change management expenditure to be about $2.7 billion, and has so far only managed to provide 1 billion.’ This is grossly unfair. The Christian People's Party builds its policies on next love, trustworthiness and human dignity. All three pillars suggest that we are champions in the fight against climate change, but it is also about the melting of the poles, changing living conditions for species that both have value in themselves and play an important role in the great interplay of which we humans are part. That is why the Christian People's Party in ours promoted a proposal in the Stortinget on marine protected areas and a systematic practice of a precautionary attitude in all contexts in previously wholly or partly iced areas. This is about a completely different edge of the world than what was just described from Kenya, but also here is the balance in nature that is at stake. I think I'll end up there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2810	The Paris Agreement is important. If it works as it should, it will mean a significant change both in Norway and in most countries around us. Then it is maritimely unique – as the first more global, legally binding climate agreement. So it's going to mean a lot of changes and transformations for us, perhaps the most probably in the non-quota sectors, but it will also mean major shifts for the rest of the industry and the oil and gas industry that are part of the quota sector. It is not the case that climate change and challenges are becoming the same in all countries. They're going to be a little bit different in different countries. One of the challenges in Norway is that we already have fossil-free energy production. Thus, many of the conversion measures that Norway needs to take, both more expensive and more demanding than many other countries face, at least for the next decade. The part of the industry that is currently within the quota sector must also prepare for significant changes. Technology developments and decisions also require companies in that sector to invest in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. They've been able to do that in the past. Through technological developments, they have previously been able to contribute to climate change mitigation, and they must do so in the years to come, as well as being part of the common EU-wide quota system. In the case of the non-quota sector, a large part of the transition will take place in the transport sector. That is perhaps where the debate has also become the strongest so far. I think that's important, and I think that's good. There will be many opportunities in the transport sector, and we will start to see some of them, both through zero and low-emission ferries, but also with regard to the question of converting the car fleet into electric cars, and perhaps even heavy goods transport more, through a common instrument, for example. in the form of a CO 2 fund. I want to mention the agricultural sector a little bit, because it is a demanding sector. Indeed, it is one of the sectors in Norway that have suffered a slight reduction in their greenhouse gas emissions in recent years. It becomes demanding for agriculture. I think it is important to discuss agriculture, that at least we have a clear distinction between emissions from biological processes in agriculture and emissions of greenhouse gases that originate from fossil sources. We have been waiting for an opportunity in Stortinget to have a broader discussion about the follow-up to the Paris Agreement. We haven't had that so far. There has been some progress towards this in the European Committee, and there has been some progress towards it through cases that have been promoted individually in the Grand Duchy. But it has always been said that we have to wait on issues of common EU legislation and achievement – on how to implement it with the EU. But all of a sudden, the government decides that they will submit a summer 2017 climate report. It is not notified to Stortinget earlier, and it is not going to be treated in Stortinget in ours, for it is too late. But it would have been interesting to know a little about why an absolute now – before a common regulatory framework is adopted with the EU – there is reason to present a climate notification, and when the Storting can expect that climate message to be put on the table. Then there are also questions of whether joint implementation with the EU should be a bilateral agreement, or whether it should be part of the EEA. The third – and perhaps most important – question is: How has Norway tried to influence the EU in terms of joint implementation? It is not all in what the EU is proposing, which is going to be as simple. One of the concerns is the way in which the European Commission proposes to calculate for forests. It is a methodology that will lead to — if Norway increases its logging of forests and uses it for example. building wooden houses instead of concrete houses or using them in fuel – that we will be punished for it, as the European Commission is now proposing. If we increased the yield from 10 million to 15 million cubic metres, as the Environment Directorate has said is sustainable, it would be calculated as 4 million tonnes of CO 2 emissions increased, according to the rules now presented by the European Commission. It is not acceptable. The question is, what is the government going to do, and what has the government done so far to stop such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2837	The climate agreement in Paris was a paradigm shift in how the world’s climate work was to be organised. From the two-part division between countries and developing countries, all countries were given responsibility to stop global warming. From a centrally negotiated target for each country, it was up to each country to set its own and increasingly ambitious targets. And from being the driving force of climate change politicians, the Paris Agreement became something that both organisations and a number of companies felt ownership of and wanted to succeed. More ambitious targets would lead countries to revise their own climate policies, and setting a 1.5-degree target instead of a 2-degree target would do just that. The message was ready: go home, fold up your sleeves and intensify your efforts in climate change, and do so as soon as possible. It's just zero emissions that are good enough, is the only conclusion that can be drawn. But it is difficult to see that the Paris Agreement has had an impact on government policy at all. Norway's main contribution to climate change is what we do to lift oil, coal and gas from the interior of the earth, so that it gets into the atmosphere. Nevertheless, the government has refused to consider what the new objective of ensuring global warming to well below 2 degrees and down to 1.5 degrees has to say for Norway’s largest industry, the oil industry. They have even increased the allocation of oil blocks to ‘all hour high’. They have rejected the proposal of Erna Solberg's own Green Competitiveness Expert Committee, which recommends changes to the highly subsidising oil tax regime that we have, and they refuse, for example. to answer the Storting on what the Goliath expansion costs the community. What risk do we run for similar bleaches in the future? From the government we hear that it is not by reducing the supply of Norwegian oil that we are going to reduce world greenhouse gas emissions, but at the same time. This is in stark contrast to what you think otherwise. At the same time, the government believes that other countries should reduce their coal production to save the world, despite the fact that Norwegian oil is about as bad for the climate as German coal. What about cutting Norway’s own emissions in Norway and the world? Norway’s own efforts to do so? There is no increased effort in the world, rather on the contrary, with significant cuts in the world's renewable efforts. We have worked hard to prevent the rainforest – the rainforest initiative that the red-green government put in place – from preventing the globe from boiling, but instead should be able to give an approved stamp for increased emissions from aviation climate pollution. But what about Norway and Norwegian emissions cut? Firstly, the objective of the climate agreement, set by a unanimous increase with clear targets for greenhouse gas emissions in 2020, is not achieved until 2030. This was confirmed by the government itself in the perspective message, where the forecast says just that. There we also get an answer to the question, how long did the Right One mean to meet the climate agreement? Now we've got the answer: 17 years. While the red-green government spent six years from the first climate settlement to get about half of the cuts in place, the right 17 years needed to take the other half. The other thing is, why is it that the government doesn't tickle? Yes, because all national targets for emissions reduction have been abolished, and this was done in connection with the treatment of the government’s climate notification, where all batches, except MDG and SV, voted in favour of such a device. Now that we have a climate law for treatment, ‘common implementation with the EU’ stands about 200 times, while the Climate Act only mentions emissions cuts six times. We differ greatly from other progressive countries that set clear national targets. What's wrong with doing it the way the government does? Well, it runs counter to the principle that rich countries should go ahead in the fight to limit the most dangerous climate change. As a result, instead of investing in Norwegian business, investment in foreign business conversion becomes a greener future. You get it less manageable. How much easier it is for a business to deal with the fact that by 2020 we are going to have oil-free heating of houses, rather than saying that by 2020 it is up to you to decide whether to use oil for heating houses; it depends on the EU quota market. And not least: what kind of upliftment are we going to have in the future with emissions cuts if all countries are planning for everyone else to implement the emissions cuts? What are the questions I ask the government? One is: How much of climate change will the government plan Norway for us to do at home? Does the government believe that the EU's targets should be tightened up towards 2018? When the EU ETS is the main instrument, why is Norway not invited to the important discussion on the future of the EU ETS?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2856	The Paris Agreement was a major step forward, Norway’s signature to the Paris Agreement was a major step forward, but Norway’s follow-up to the Paris Agreement is very important to put under a critical spotlight. The American climate journalist Bill McKibben wrote the following headline in the Huffington Post: Norway and Trump have the same plan for the Arctic – and that is not good news. What he was aiming for is Norway’s version of climate policy, which is aimed at increasing oil consumption dramatically, even in areas where the climate effect is very bad. McKibben is not alone in having this critical attitude. In March, Dagbladet commentator Geir Ramnefjell wrote the following: ‘Our oil policy, combined with our leading role in international climate action, is the biggest political contradiction in Norway. It is on the border of pure bluff.’» The Minister for Climate Change wrote in the letter sent to the Energy and Environment Committee in connection with this own-initiative debate on the seriousness of the climate situation. He writes that the total global contribution, i.e. cutbacks, will not be sufficient to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The gap between what the parties have put forward together and what is required to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement is probably about 15 gigatons, that is billions of tons. By comparison, the global emissions in 2016 are approx. 40 billion tons. So there's a huge gap between what we do and what other countries do, and what we should do. So what can we do? The Government has notified that Norway, together with the EU, will reduce its emissions by at least 40 pst. by 2030. There will also be a strengthening of it in the proposal for the Climate Act, where the government will make Norway carbon neutral by 2030, and by 2050 we will be a so-called low-carbon society where emissions are reduced by 80-95 pst. – according to 1990. It is also a major step forward for us to have such an objective in the climate legislation proposal. But then this package still has very critical weaknesses. No policy presented by the government, however much emissions will be cut in Norway, is at all clear. The main tool is still that the door is wide open to buy us free. The emissions shall be cut with the EU, and we shall cut the corresponding 95 pst. of Norwegian emissions. So the government is pointing in the direction of, just as the red-green government did before, that the space for action to cut with others, via others, by means of others and not themselves, will be institutionalized in the form of a gaping loophole in the new climate law. I hope the Storting will close that loophole again. Let's make a climate law that solves the main problem of Norwegian climate policy, namely emissions cut in Norway. Today, Norway continues to follow a strategy to become a low-carbon society by helping other countries cut emissions, not us. It is comparable to a drunk who claims he is dried because he has got the other drunks in the street to stop drinking. If we continue to buy allowances, the next generation of Norwegians will be left in a country that does not cut its own emissions, and not least will be left in a country that has not used its own funds to invest in its own emission-free technology. It will be to put Norway on a siding in business development, and to give ourselves a competitive disadvantage that can be very serious to go on in the decades to come. The second weakness of the government’s work on the Paris Agreement is that Norway leaves the largest and most important tool left unused in the register. Government pension funds abroad need to be mandated to help solve climate and environmental problems in the world. We need to introduce a climate percentage where Norway contributes similarly with 1 pst. of our GNI to the UN Climate Change Fund, and we must stop the production of climate change by re-scanning oil and gas on Norwegian soil. I am excited about what the Council of State is going to say about this in the climate announcement he has now announced. Maybe we can get some preliminary leaks about it in the debate as follows.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2878	The Paris Agreement marked a turning point in international climate policy. The early entry into force last November was historic and more and more countries are now ratifying the agreement. As of today, there are 144 countries. The Paris Agreement undertakes. Its follow-up is a high priority. The size also includes several request decisions relating to the follow-up to the Paris Agreement, which the government follows up in line with the reference in the State budget. The choice in the United States has created uncertainty in international climate policy. It's not yet clear how the United States will follow up the Paris Agreement. It's also possible that the U.S. chooses to withdraw from it. To date, the new administration in the United States has maintained a low profile in the climate negotiations that are currently taking place in Bonn, and so the uncertainty persists. At the same time, there's also good news. There's been some good news last year. Several new climate agreements in international aviation from the International Maritime Organisation, the amendments to the Montreal Protocol, which phase out the hazardous HFC gases, and figures from the International Energy Agency show that emissions are reaching surface levels for the third consecutive year of 2016, while economic growth continues. The latest projections towards 2020 show that Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions are also going downwards. Three years ago, projections showed that the gap between emission targets and performance in 2020 was expected to be around. 8 million tonnes. Now it's about to be about. 2 million tonnes. It is a result of the climate policy of the government and the cooperation parties. However, good news cannot become a rest cushion. We now have an overview of the country’s national contributions under the Paris Agreement, and it is clear that they are not sufficient to achieve the objectives of the agreement. That's why we need to work further both nationally and internationally. Norway has an ambitious climate policy. We have reported a target to reduce emissions by at least 40 pst. By 2030 compared to 1990, and we will implement it together with the EU. We have never before had such a binding target for emissions. We need to be prepared to ensure that implementation in Norway can become demanding and require new measures and instruments. That's what we're going to talk about in the big news we're presenting before the summer, with an overall strategy for pursuing this goal. Many of the national contributions notified to the Paris Agreement are unclear, imprecise and difficult to understand. Therefore, the Paris decision mandated the parties to provide guidance and legislation to make the provisions of the agreement feasible, in terms of progress in their efforts, and to help the parties to develop clearer and more ambitious objectives. This is what is referred to as the rulebook to be completed in 2018. It is an important international follow-up to the Paris Agreement for its proper functioning. There's also some of what's on the agenda in Bonn these days. The regulatory framework must include, inter alia: are designed to assist countries in setting emission targets covering the entire economy. However, the design of the targets is not the most important. Of course, it is the content of the objectives and the gap between what the parties together have presented in the first round of nationally determined contributions and what is required to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement is probably around 15 gigatons in 2030. That gap was already known before Paris, and therefore it was so important, as Norway worked for, that we had an impact on a global review of the overall status of climate work, demands for progress in the country’s national contribution, the so-called five-year ambition mechanism. A key objective of the negotiations now taking place in Bonn is to set up a good fasitative dialogue in 2018. That's the first political foot in the ground after Paris. It will give an important signal as to whether the world community is united and whether all countries are working seriously to meet the long-term temperature targets of the Paris Agreement. Capacity building is also important for those countries that need it, and therefore we Norwegians actively support the many capacity-building initiatives established during the last year. The Paris Agreement also encourages countries to develop long-term low-carbon strategies. There are also strategies that can help raise ambitions. In Norway, the Climate Act is an important first step, because the proposed climate targets for 2050 provide an important dimensional framework for the entire long-term climate work. The green competitiveness strategy that we present for the harvest will also be an important piece in this way. Support for developing countries for the implementation of climate action is also crucial to achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement. It is now likely that the United States will reduce its support, and therefore we will continue and partly strengthen our great commitment to climate finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2904	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2909	There are at least two things we're very much in agreement about. One is that we have signed up to reduce our emissions by at least 40 pst. after the Paris Agreement, that it will be by 2030, and that we will do so together with the EU. I took up in my post what was presented in the big message when we joined the EU Climate Framework, that it was then very clearly stated that this was not EEA-relevant, and that it was going to be a bilateral agreement. In retrospect, the government has had more problems around it. That is to the extent okay, but what we do not yet know – and this is in a way our main way of meeting climate change reductions – is whether this should be a protocol 31 approach or whether it should be an inclusion in the EEA Agreement, or whether or not to go back and say that this must be a bilateral agreement. It's completely uncertain for the Storting, and it might be good to get a clarification now on how the Council of State will recommend us to approach this significant issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2916	The Government wants a lashing in Protocol 31 to the EEA Agreement. This means that there will be a bilateral agreement, but with a anchoring in Protocol 31, simply because that anchoring will prevent the whole round of ratifications from taking place in all EU Member States. But it's about the form of the agreement, and that's not the most important question. The main question is the content of the agreement. It will be determined by the common climate policy implemented by the EU and where Norway is actively participating in the framework of our association. Now we are in the final phase of work on the EU's quota system. We've worked hard to influence it. It seems to be getting tighter than it was for a while – not as tight as we have argued for. And then it's the whole package about the non-quota sector that is now also in the European Parliament, where we actively follow up, and it has it as its priority: the content over the form right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2921	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. So that means now that we can assume that the government is working on a bilateral agreement with a protocol 31 approach to this issue. But can the Council of State indicate when this will be clarified, and also when he may be able to explain to the Council how this will affect national climate action?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2928	As I was told, it is the content of the commitment that is the most important topic in the EU and for Norway now. The political discussions are very important for us to try to influence. Then we have a parallel discussion with the EU about the form of the agreement, where we have good hope of agreeing on a protocol 31 solution. However, the form of the agreement will not be the most important for the climate commitments that Norway will assume. The working party tends to be very concerned with the process and procedure. What I'm more concerned about is the content of the policy. That's where we're at the ball, which we've been on about the quota system. Now we are particularly concerned with the discussions surrounding the non-quota sector policy – what cuts we have to make in transport, what cuts we have to make in agriculture, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2933	Last summer, the Environment Directorate and NIBIO presented a report in which they concluded that putting the forest into use for climate change is more important than protecting forests, because the forest has a major impact on the possibility of long-term cut greenhouse gas emissions. The question is simply: what does the Norwegian Government think about the EU Commission's proposal on forest accounting rules? What has the government done, and in case what does the government do to influence these rules of procedure? Does the government intend to accept the proposals now available from the European Commission in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2938	It is quite right, as the representative Arnstad says, that forest and land use rules are an important part of climate policy. It is in the European Union and in Europe. It is also global. We are well aware of this, among other things. from the large rainforest plot. As regards the design of EU legislation for this, we are concerned that there should be a high level of ambition for the climate framework, which must also cover the forestry and land-use sectors. Here, however, it is necessary to distinguish between forest management, which is positive for the climate, and which can generally continue, regardless of the details of EU legislation, and the question of how to measure and what consequences of permanent deforestation – the climate impact of permanent deforestation. There's a climate effect. What we believe is that there must be incentives for new climate action in existing forests. There is not enough EU legislation. We also believe that we need to be able to count the CO2 capture of forests for several years than the EU Commission has proposed. There's some of our positions into this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2946	I very much agree with the Council of States that the content of the agreement with the EU is crucial, and it is a work that is now being carried out within the EU. But when it's the content that's crucial, and we're in any case going to implement these projects with 40 pst. reduction with the EU, would it not really be as good to make this EEA-relevant and take all doubts aside, instead of continuing to anchor only under Protocol 31?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2951	We have a good tradition that very important areas of cooperation between Norway and the EU are anchored in Protocol 31 in areas where some of the policies being developed and some of the legislation being drafted can be EEA-relevant and others are not. We have that as a starting point here as well. It is unclear which legal acts in the follow-up will be relevant to the EEA and which may not be. We therefore see it as quite natural and a sensible approach to anchor it in Protocol 31. But again – that’s not the most important question we’re discussing right now. It's the very contents of the commitments.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2956	I hear the Council of State says that the most important thing is not process and procedures, but the content. Then I find it fascinating that the Climate Act says about the relationship with and joint implementation with the EU, up to 200 times, while emission cuts are only six times. So you can trick or keep evaluating, or don't fool and interpret it in a certain way, like I do. However, I have a specific question, since this is about the follow-up to the Paris Agreement, and since Norway is always the country that is most strongly involved in quota trade and joint implementation through Article 6. My question is: what criteria will Norway have for cooperation, i.e. quota trading, through Article 6, and what does Norway do to work to meet the demand for rich country funding to increase from the current level?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2963	There's a good connection between the two questions. Using market mechanisms is a way of ensuring also increased funding for key climate action. The use of economic instruments, the use of market mechanisms through regulated cooperation, is important. We are the followers of an effective device of flexible mechanisms in the climate negotiations. We are working on the ground through the green development mechanism and through the pilot of a market mechanism under Paris in the so-called TCAF – Transformative Carbon Asset Facility. That kind of cooperation is one of the things that has helped many countries to increase their ambitions, and we support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2969	The government’s climate legislation proposal sets a 2050 target for Norway to be a low-carbon society at the time, with emissions of 80-95 pst. lower than we had in 1990. At the same time, it also opens up in that passport for implementation with other countries. To the extreme, Norway shall become a low-emission society without cutting emissions. At least it's opening up for it. However, the objective reaches 80-95 pst. It is difficult to imagine that not all countries must have cut that figure. What is the reason why the government is so reluctant to signal that Norway must take it all, most of the emission cuts at home, so that we can contribute to the goals we ourselves are committed to?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2976	The wording of the law and the aim of the law is to promote the objective of Norway becoming a low-carbon society by 2050. It is an approach underpinning the Climate Act. It is also an approach that underpins the work we have put into developing green competitiveness for Norway – how are we going to become a low-carbon society without becoming a low-income society? We are trailers of flexible mechanisms. We're trailers of a quota market. We are supporters of cost-effectiveness in climate policy. Saying today exactly how much will be taken home versus outside, in the 2030 targets, is too early, but we're going to specify an overall strategy and an approach to it in the climate communication that I'm presenting next month.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2981	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e2988	I would like to address Norway's climate commitments and the European Commission's proposals on forest accounting. In addition to the obligations of the ETS and of the non-quota sector, the ESA, the proposal of the EU Commission imposes a separate obligation not to net emissions from the so-called LULUCF sector. These relate to land use, land use changes involving changes in agricultural carbon, changes in the carbon stock due to cropping and planting, and changes in carbon quantities in existing forests. We can just start learning the term LULUCF. It is little known, we need to have a public debate on the consequences of the European Commission's proposals in Norway. Despite the broad international and national consensus that increasing the mobilisation of biomass from forests is essential for addressing climate challenges, the European Commission has put forward a proposal for rules of account – I stress: rules of use – for forests with a strong restriction on Norway’s opportunities to increase their peak. Capture of CO 2 in Norwegian forests today amounts to 30 million. tonnes. However, the proposed rules of operation would mean that the recording would be approximated to zero. The emission or absorption will depend on the level of yield. This is because the CO 2 capture according to the accounting rules is to be calculated by comparing the actual uptake in 2020-2030 with the recording in a reference path based on the historical use of the forest. In other words, instead of basing itself on what is a biologically sound cropping, historical data are used as a starting point. This means that if Norway is going to increase production, we can get a minus, and there are obviously strong forces that want it to. That is why a delegation from the Nordic Council was sent to meet representatives of the European Parliament on 2 and 3 May, and then we became aware that Norway had no opinion on this. Governments have now said that accounting rules are important, that it is important to have a high level of ambition, that it is important to have an administrative regime, and that deforestation is a problem. Deforestation seen with Norwegian eyes is highest. Is it really that the Norwegian government believes that mowing more timber is a problem in the climate debate in the future, in our climate obligations? We have to get a clear answer to that this evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3003	When we discuss the follow-up to the Paris Agreement, I would like to recall our relatively close political history. In March 2000, the Bondevik I government, the central government, went off on an important environmental issue. The KrF-led centre management could not accept the wish of the bulk of the population to weaken the pollution law to pave the way for gas power plants in Mongstad. In 2017, a press release from Statoil said that the gas power plant would be phased over a period of two years and shut down after operating unprofitably for many years. The same fate came to the gas power plant at Kårstø one year earlier. So two large points of CO 2 disappear, and we can say, well that's what we said! Climate change is past and past environmental sins that need to be repaired for future generations. When the then US Secretary of State John Kerry signed the Paris Agreement, he did so with one of his grandchildren imprisoned. This was a strong picture of what it is about – that our children and grandchildren should have the same opportunities in the future as we have today. One of the things that has made Norway such a successful country, which constantly tops statistics on best countries to live in, high wealth, high level of happiness, etc., is that we have been able to stand together when needed. The Norwegian model is a joint project. The welfare state is a joint project. The framework for oil extraction, which has made us one of the richest countries in the world, is a joint project. If we are to succeed in climate policy, it must also be a joint project. This is a responsibility that lies heavily on us politicians. We have the tradition of putting ourselves together when there are important issues for the country, and forming wide-ranging settlements that stand longer than a majority period. Whether in defence, tax or, for that matter, predators: Wide settlement gives consistency, and it also includes and distributes the burden when unpopular decisions are to be taken. A green shift will not come without pain. No fundamental changes are made. We're not going to blackpaint this anyway. There will be many positive changes that will enrich people's lives, but changes will be. It's about our footprint having to get smaller. Technology will be able to solve a lot, and I'm optimistic, but not everything can be solved by technology. For example, fossil fuels today account for about 80 pst. global energy production. At the same time, 1.4 billion people in the world lack access to electricity, according to the International Energy Agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3019	It was the line change with the council that caused the blood to shower a little extra, because he suggested that the Workers' Party was most concerned with processes. It says the government council that has received the only climate impact related to the process in four years. Joining the EU Climate Framework is the only connection that the government has had in the four-year climate work. It's a process, to the most extent. It has since been argued that we cannot do concrete national measures to protect the process. No, the Labour Party is not so busy with processes, but we're concerned about knowing what the consequences are, what we're doing, what the obligations are affecting us, which the representative Lundteg was also in the past. The most important thing for us is how to achieve the commitments and objectives set. That is why we have repeatedly challenged it, from the moment we actually agreed that we should be part of the EU climate framework. But it is the Right Party and the Advance Party that have protected themselves behind this process of not going into any action. The climate law is a measure imposed by the government. Right-wing voted in favour, the Party of Advancement voted against. When we decided in Stortinget that we should be climate neutral from 2030, there was a clear warning from the Council of State that we should not interfere with the process. So if it's someone who's referred to processes, it's at least the Council of State today. Now, two years have passed since we adopted this climate framework, and we still have no idea what it looks like, either what content and what consequences it has for us. In April last year, we challenged the Council of State to submit proposals for action to follow up the Paris Agreement, because those measures should have been adopted during this enlargement period, and because we are concerned about the very content of the policy. Perhaps it is time for us to close the process debates and get clear implications for Norway and what attitudes and changes we need to anticipate through the climate communication that is being presented. If not, there will be a flood and only a processal protection of today’s government in their inability to implement climate action.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3026	Some of the point of having such own-initiative debates is to give the Storting the opportunity to raise questions, get answers from the government and engage in dialogue on how to proceed, but I feel that there are many questions, many demands from the majority of the population, but get answers from the government. That's why I'm just going through some of the points that I've noticed, and that I want answers from the Council of State. Terje Aasland raised the question of what kind of relationship we are going to have with the EU. Well, the answer is that you work after an association, a bilateral agreement connected by protocol 31. Then my question is: What monitoring mechanisms of the agreement and fulfilment by the Norwegian side is the idea that the Council of State should have? I notice all the time that the Council of State says this is a much more binding agreement than we have ever had before. That's wrong. The international legal obligations we have towards the UN to meet our climate goals, we follow. We are bound by them, and at least we feel obliged by them, even though the Council of State should feel that he is more obliged by the European Union. The second question I asked is: in 2018 we will have a review to see what is needed, among other things. to reach the 1.5 degree point. My question then is: Does the government believe that the EU's targets should be tightened up for 2018? What does the government do to work for such a kind of tightening? And what are the consequences of the government's view that such a type of mitigation should have for Norwegian climate objectives? My third question is: when the EU quota system is the main instrument for cutting emissions in Norway, why is it not that the Council of State and the Government present to the Stortinget what consequences the EU quota market we see now will have for future emissions in the quota-free sector in Norway, and invites the Stortinget to take a discussion whether we think we should tighten the EU quota system further, and whether we should have own instruments in the quota-free sector in Norway to have the desired effect on the reduction of emissions that we want? So the last question: I think it is profoundly problematic that we now do not have a national target, but that we only have an EU target. Because there is one thing the Norwegian government is good at, it is planning and achieving goals we set ourselves. Therefore, my question to the Council of State is: What is the objective of the government's government signaling to its department that we should have emissions cut in Norway by 2020 and 2030? How much are we going to plan to cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3039	Let me first take the rules for the forest and land sectors. Thus, a Norwegian position exists and the Norwegian position is made known to the EU and to individual countries. We believe it is important that policies provide incentives for new climate action in the sector. We believe it is important that policies stimulate the use of renewable biomass in line with low-emission development. We believe it is important to ensure a balance between the different land categories, so that the forest and land categories do not appear to be a source of emissions in countries with a high net take-up. On the basis of this, we have called for inclusion in existing forests to be counted for 50 years instead of 30 years, as the Commission has proposed, among other things. because our forest grows slower than forest on the continent. We believe that new measures in existing forests should contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the non-quota sector, i.e. densification and fertilisation in existing forests. We support proposals for a ceiling on how many forest credits can help meet the targets of the non-quota sector, and we believe that the reference path and the establishment of the reference paths should be the responsibility of the countries. That's some of what we're arguing about. We've even held seminars in Brussels to shed light on this, and we're playing with other countries to look through, and we're active in Parliament and the Green Growth Group to promote our vision. With regard to Aasland's view of process and content, I have to say that in the discussions we have had on EU policy, in the discussions on the quota system, what I have noticed most from the Workers' Party is a concern that it will be too tight for industry in the next decades. As regards the transport sector, which is the most important in the non-quota sector, the Labour Party has raised doubts as to whether electric car policy should be pursued, and has even gone into the process of assessing whether to subsidise petrol and diesel in the districts. That's not how it gets good content in climate policy. Let me then say to Eidsvoll Holmås that in relation to the relationship between EU targets and Norwegian targets, emissions cut at home and outside, we come back to assessments of it in the Storingsmessage that comes next month. There we will focus primarily on the non-quota sector and not on the content of the quota sector. It is clear that we are in favour of a tighter quota market, we are in favour of a CO 2 compensation scheme to avoid carbon leakage, and we are in favour of triggering as much innovation as possible in the quota sector, but we do not need to spend much time comparing all the important issues in the non-quota sector. Then we get back to the other questions from Eidsvoll Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3053	I am grateful for the Council of State's response on the European Commission's proposal on the rules of account for soil and forest. When the Council of State says that the Norwegian positions have been issued and are known, they were not released and known on 2 and 3 May, as there was a large delegation from the Nordic Council's nutrient selection and sustainability selection that visited the EU Parliament and spoke to those responsible for the matter there. It is therefore essential that the Council of State tells us that new documents have come from Norway to the European Parliament after 2 and 3 May, because it was not known. So LULUCF applies, as I said. « land use, land use changes involving changes in agricultural carbon, changes in the carbon stock due to cropping and planting and carbon changes in existing forests». So it's about the renewable carbon, the green carbon. Sweden has expressed its opinion, Finland has expressed its opinion, Norway had not expressed its opinion on 2 and 3 May. However, it is most important for Norway — it is most important for Norway to express its opinion. Why is that? Well, because logging in forests in Norway is particularly low in relation to what is biologically sound – that is, the view of the Centre Party that we should not mowing in mountain forests, we should not mowing in protected forests, we should ensure biodiversity, we should ensure multi-use, we should focus more on forest management. Then a mound should be more of the most mature forest, i.e. the highest class V, which has grown up, and which captures little CO 2. Then it must be positive to mowing more. When the Council of State says it should be the national responsibility: what we got done was that there should be no national responsibility. It was the proposal of the European Commission. It was supposed to be legislation, and then the question was what legislation it was supposed to be. Should it be based on historical impacts, or should it be based on what was a biologically sound crop? That's the question. And my question to the Council of State is: is it in what the Council of State now said that this is the basis for the biologically sound logging of Norway – that is, when it is there, and we have a harvest there today, is it positive in all ways that we are increasing the yield against the biological? That is the key issue, and what needs to be debated in public today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3070	I think it's important to take a step back. What is the whole basis of the Paris Agreement? It is that all countries have to commit, all countries have to comply with what they report to the UN, and it needs to be mobilised, whether in cooperation between countries, individual countries, local authorities, organisations, businesses or individuals. All of this needs to be mobilised in order to achieve the goals – not only 2 degrees, but also increased effort and could also reach 1.5 degrees. I believe that one of the things that we have done – or hopefully manage – during this big time period, is just getting more systematics in the Norwegian effort. The weakness of the old climate agreement was that this was a list of measures, but a list of measures that did not match the objectives set. By agreeing that we should implement together with the EU, we will have a necessary systematic approach that we need to achieve by 2030. And when we have that systematic, along with a climate law – which we will adopt – it provides a basis for the work that we have to carry out in the years to come. There is no contradiction between having an agreement with the EU on what we need to do and having our own national objectives. They have it in the United Kingdom – now they want it out – and they have it in Germany, they have it in Denmark, and there are several countries that also have a goal where one should go beyond what is the obligation itself. Then it's not that because you're supposed to have this in place and you have to wait for processes in the EU, there's no action now. On the contrary, if it's something we've reinforced in this period, it's action, whether it's strengthening the positive instruments we have in relation to zero-emission vehicles, the efforts we have on biofuels, or that's what's going on in terms of public transport and trains. We've started the process of CO 2 funds, it's doing a lot in shipping, it's strengthening Enova, environmental technology schemes, and finally investing in hydrogen -- there's a lot of areas where it's going to be driven forward. I hope that this discussion does not show that there is now any doubt about the willingness to have an agreement with the EU. It is clear that our government needs to do what it can to make that agreement and influence the processes, where possible from the Norwegian side, into the EU. However, for the greater part, there is no doubt that the achievement of Europe’s objectives requires joint implementation, and Norway should definitely be part of it. The easiest way is to do it through the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3086	Ola Elvesuen rammed up a number of things that Stortinget has adopted during the last period on the climate side. Common to absolutely everyone is that the government parties were against them or let be proposing them. That's just, that's the fact, and we see that. The big problem with that is that we continue into a time when a number of the things that the Storing has adopted have been countered by the government. One of the things mentioned is to record there, among other things. a CO 2 fund for business, which the Stortinget decided – I think all the parties were for it – and where instead of having a CO 2 fund for business, the government wants to have a CO 2 fund organised in the way that Enova is organised. My point, and my reason why I'm drilling to the Council of State on what's the national emission target, is that it's good for business to have clear targets. If you ask business – who works to make sure that heat solutions for heating houses are sold – about what's best for them, whether there's a total ban on oil fires in 2020 or to relate to the EU's quota price, everyone will of course say that it's a total ban, because it's governance efficient, it's possible to relate to it. No one knows what is going to happen in the years to come. We have a lot of forecasts and assumptions, and what we know from the government department and the trades union directorate, is that it does not contribute to the necessary conversion that we are all engaged in. The second reason is that I am concerned about how a goal works. If we hadn't had a clear 2020 target on national emissions cuts, why on earth would we electrify Utsira? Why in the world would we have had pressure from Stortinget, and why would the government work to electrify Utsira? We wouldn't have done it if that was the way it was up to the oil companies, and it was quite up to them to assess it against the quota-free sector. Why in the world would we be investing in carbon capture and storage if we didn't also have a target to reduce national emissions? Why on earth would we invest in an electric car and do it the way we would if we hadn't also had a national ambition to cut emissions? Why in the world would we be investing in biofuels and trying to get up biofuels if it wasn't because we also had national targets for emissions? And as I said, why in the world would we ban firing with oil fires if we don't have a ban, if we don't have national targets for emissions? The problem with what is the government's goal now, saying that absolutely everything available from emissions targets is to be done together with the EU, is that we lack a dynamic framework in which we can develop policies for emissions reduction for Norway, because there will be no pressure to do so. I am deeply concerned, and so is the fact that the Council of States is totally ignoring the 2020 targets, even though the ambition towards 2020 is confirmed in the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3113	It was Elvestuen's posts that made me take the floor, because I think there is a reason to clarify at least a few things. The centre party agreed that we should have a common implementation with the EU when it comes to the climate agreement, but I have to say that things have happened after what makes one at least have to assess aspects of it. There are especially two things that we were not aware of, and were not informed about at that time. One is that when we adopted the issue of joint implementation, we were proposed a bilateral agreement. Then one has subsequently come up with both Protocol 31 and the EEA Agreement, and that is not clear. The second is what the representative, Mr Lundtigen, has also said here, that the European Commission has put forward a proposal on forest accounting rules that will be serious for all forest-rich countries and will probably be serious for Norway’s ability to use forest biomass in a decisive way to help solve the climate challenges. It would be contrary to the sea if Norway did not both clearly distance itself from the rules of the European Commission and cooperate with other European countries in order to combat the rules proposed by the European Commission, for there is legislation that is simply contrary to all the government and the grubbing-up has previously said in order to facilitate the exploitation of the potential for increased logging and increased use of wood. It is a matter that we also have to include in the further discussions on the implementation of the commitments under the Paris Agreement, because it cannot be that we have now joined in the joint implementation process, and then we are involved at any price, no matter how the rules affect Norway, and no matter what new areas are addressed in the EU system, which have an enormous impact on Norwegian climate policy. Then there is no doubt that the forest code is a topic that we were not familiar with at all when we agreed to jointly implement with the EU. It is a topic that I expect must be addressed in the government's climate announcement, and it must also be addressed in the Stortingen to the autumn, because we are not given the opportunity to discuss the climate announcement now in ours – it is completely excluded, it will come once in June, I think, in due time for the Stortinget not to deal with it. However, it must at least be an important topic, before Norway in any way enters into the commitments that one has said to do, together with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3128	The history description of the representative Eidsvoll Holmås is quite strange. Let me start by saying that we have no interest in the 2020 target. Well, this government took over a emission gap of 8 million tons. It is now down to 2 million tonnes due to the climate policy of the government and the cooperation parties. Then Eidsvoll Holmås gets so frustrated he wants the Left and Christian People's Party to have an impact on climate policy, perhaps more influence outside government than the SV had in government, but I'm not going to go deeper into that frustration. But this includes, among other things: a more predictable policy for biofuels, where the previous government had something quite different. It is a predictable policy for electric cars and electrification of the passenger car market that we have continued and reinforced just when it has started to work, instead of keeping at the limit of 50,000 cars that the previous government had. There are a number of other measures we have taken that work – and they also work towards 2020. So to the 2030 targets, let me say a little bit about the quota system. The quota system has not worked optimally in the current period. It's something that everyone recognizes, and it's not least because of the financial crisis, because of a collapse in price mechanisms. That's why we've been very concerned that although we're achieving the cut targets with the 2020 quota system at European level, and although we're going to achieve the 2030 cut targets, the price mechanism must be such that it triggers innovation, and we need a 2050 perspective there too to get the enough innovation. It is a line shared by many other progressive EU countries, and when I attended the Green Growth Group meeting some time ago – the same day that the Council adopted its position – it became a strengthening of the quota system as a starting point from the Member States. It was positive, and it was in line with the direction Norway thought we were going to take. So for the 2030 objectives monitoring mechanism: we aim for a bilateral agreement, preferably anchored in Protocol 31. With Protocol 31 and a solution that follows neither one nor the other. It will be a negotiation with the EU that will determine what kind of monitoring mechanism we are going to have. Neither an ESA solution nor a Commission solution is provided for in Protocol 31, it must be agreed separately. But what is quite obvious is that we are not going to have any less control or follow-up at international level than the EU Member States are getting. It lies in the joint implementation. There is a solidarity activity at EU level, where each country must take its action and be held responsible for its efforts, including: through the annual emission budgets we are going to receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3139	This debate is in the same vein as almost all climate debates have done in the last four years. Some are very pleased with what they have done, even though it is very small, while others in this room are more impatient. Someone might be a little self-satisfied, and that could be the danger, because what's perfectly obvious about the Paris Agreement and our fulfillment is that we're not now where we're going to be. We also don't know what actual measures are needed to achieve what we need in 2030. It is a reality. Well, in summary, we could say it like that. Then I think it's a little strange that this debate gets into the track it's doing now, time after time. The chairperson of the Committee, Elvesuen, says that they are more systematic now. Yes, it must be Elvestuen's opinion, but I think he's quite alone about it. There is no more systematics in climate work now. The only systematic thing about climate work now is that the left is standing in the hiking hall and laughing at the nose every time the government presents a climate issue. It's the only systematic thing that's happened in climate policy. It's not systematic, what's going on. It is the case that every time, to implement climate action, the Storting needs to do so, with the exception of the EU Climate Framework and its connection to it. It is a reality. Then it might be rough to use too many words about how to do it. The fact that, at the invitation of the Left, the Storting should take a blindfold and give its support to the EU and the climate, as long as it is the EU and climate that are linked, I think it is a frightening approach, which the representative of Elvesuen really calls for. Clearly, we need to know the consequences for Norway as a nation. Therefore, it is very timely that we ask questions. When the government makes a big deal that gets full support in Stortinget, and it's based on a bilateral agreement, we need to know the consequences of making the changes. It's quite natural. It's fair that the Storting does it. If not, it would have been an irresponsible approach to this. I will refrain from the debates of the committees and the Labour Party before the national meeting. I just think it's a little worrying about developments that are on the electric car market, and that it doesn't also seem a little unreasonable to the government – or at least it's time to discuss whether to continue the full subsidisation of electric cars at costs over 1 million. kr, or whether to make some limitations in order to have it more sustainable in the future, so that you could perhaps spend more money building infrastructure to achieve the objective of having emission-free cars in the new car sales from 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3150	In the opinion of the Centre Party, the Government must take a clear distance from the Commission's proposals for accounting rules in the field of forests. As soon as we receive the document sent to the EU by the government, we can assess the position of the government. It will be interesting to see when the document has been sent to the EU. Otherwise, I see that Gunnar Gundersen's representative has arrived, and that's good. I had hoped that he would take the word. He has a great job to do here to get the government on the right track – also on this issue – in terms of the use of forests and land. He has a great job to do in getting new financial framework conditions for forestry and wood processing in place, getting more profitability in place, so that we can get a good business policy, a good climate policy, but then the government has to have a sensible opinion and base the biological, not the historical, level of what has happened in our forests so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3157	It's the Council of State's lack of willingness to answer my questions that make me come up again – plus a little bit of his story. Let me take the two questions that I'm asking you to answer, first of all, about the monitoring mechanism. If the Council of State gets what he wants: What does the Council of State want, what is Norway's position on how we want a monitoring mechanism to ensure that Norway achieves its objectives? That's the one question. There is no clear response from the Council of State. He says we're going to negotiate this. Yes, of course. But what does the Council of State want? - That's the one. The second question is, what kind of goal is what has been announced to the government that they are trying to achieve? In fact, it is quite important to plan for the future, to make plans that go towards a goal. You say somewhere between 0 and 40 pst. reduction of CO 2 emissions in the non-quota sector is where we are going to be. I heard the Council of State when he presented this agreement with the EU, this joint commitment, that he said that most of it should be taken in Norway. When I heard Erna Solberg talking about this recently in the context of the perspective announcement, she said that a significant part should be taken in Norway. In other words, it's interesting for the Storting to know: what is it really the Council of State and the Government mean? What is it you're looking for? That's what you're driving by, which is the more likely you're going to be able to reach. That is what we see in all the other countries that have a climate policy, which has a national dimension. They say this is what we're going to do, and then we're going to have flexible mechanisms as well, but that's what we're going to do. But if the government doesn't control anything, yes, then you don't have a chance to achieve those goals either. And how would it have been with the EU, how would it have been with the world if all the countries had acted like this government, saying that we're just going to commit to something, and then we're going to let the others do the job? What kind of goal does the government have? Finally, I just have to say a little bit about the government's history and the systematics of politics. For the history, it's the following to say: In the government's own statement of perspective, there are two things that are striking. One goes on the system. They have stopped talking about Norwegian emissions cuts. There is no longer a single table, either in the budget or in perspective, that shows some projections of CO 2 emissions. The other thing that says is clear numbers. It is not until 2030 that you will be able to achieve what is the agreed goal of the Great Britain for 2020! So the government needs ten more years to sit. And then I say we need a new government. The last thing that's important to say is that when you ask the government to frame what kind of policy measures they've got from the government, you say biofuels, which is what the government has consistently fought against the majority of the population to avoid increasing ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3178	It's really the representative of Aasland that makes me take the floor, but also others. There is no doubt that by a civil majority it has become a major systemic issue in the work. One is that we're extending the electric car benefits until 2020. Many decisions were taken during the energy notification process, including the objective of zero emissions from 2025. This will be followed up in the national transport plan, with the objectives in place. We have jointly agreed that we need an agreement with the EU, which is clearly a commitment that is much stronger than what Norway has been willing to have in the past. A climate law is also being followed up now. When we ratified the Paris Agreement, Stortinget also made decisions that systematise what issues we should have back, by 2020. There's no doubt that there's a completely different regime it's now being added up to, than what was before. But I think this discussion also shows the following: What do you really want on the red-green side when it comes to the issue of cooperation with the EU? The SV has voted against. The centre party has strong objections, which continue today. I also notice that the Workers' Party will ask questions about what is really the consensus that is coming. The whole basis of the Paris Agreement is that we must take our own responsibility, but there must also be cooperation between countries. Europe and the EU are an engine and have a great responsibility to pursue climate policy ahead of the international stage, and there is no doubt that it will be absolutely right and, of course, also for Norway to be part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3191	Sometimes it can be nice just to sit in the hall to follow up on an interesting debate – and the climate debate is very interesting. The representative now commented that I had come in too, so I thought that I had to sign up for a bit in the debate. There is no doubt that there is a fight in the European Union about how the forest should be counted. Nor is there any doubt that the forest may be the main positive player we have with regard to climate issues in Norway. It's built up a fantastic resource. We have a net recording, as the representative Lundtegen said, of half of our emissions, and we should take care of it. Then I also heard what the council said. I am quite satisfied with what the Council of State said, if there is a position we have entered into into the EU. I heard him say we should stimulate new recordings. There is no doubt that the government has implemented fertiliser measures that will make us even more absorbed. It has come with this government. We have an ambitious strategy for biofuels. It wasn't exactly very ambitious under the previous government. I heard him say that we were going to stimulate renewable solutions, we were going to have a balance, and it wasn't going to be an expense in communities where you had net logging. I think that's pretty good positions. If we also say that we are going into alliance with Sweden and Finland about what are reasonable solutions, I think it makes sense. What is at stake is to define the concept of sustainability and actually allow countries to operate a resource on the basis of sustainable criteria. – Now I see that Svein Roald Hansen has come in. We have discussed this several times when we have been to EFTA and EEA delegation meetings in Brussels, and we have, of course, tried to follow up on what is happening. However, it is necessary to define sustainability criteria and also to protect what needs to be protected, taking into account the biotopes to be taken into account – all of them – but within the limits set by them, society as a whole should be able to realise that the use of forest resources must be very active to achieve the climate objectives. I really think the whole room agrees with that, and so I think it's both right and important that the centre party brings the forest forward in the debate. I think it should have a much larger position, because photosynthesis is a fantastic mechanism – it is given to us for free. We are largely discussing billions of carbon catching systems, but then we have the photosynthesis as a completely free mechanism given us from nature – and it should be used actively. There is the representative Lundtigen and I agree, but I was also quite satisfied with the response of the Council of State, and that is why I think the debate is also interesting to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3200	I will not unnecessarily extend this debate, but I think it is a little important to answer a question asked by the representative Elvesuen: What does the Labour Party really want from working with the EU? Let it be clear: the EU is a progressive force in international climate work, as an important ally for Norway in this. We are also so closely interwoven with Europe in commercial and political terms that it is a great advantage for us to work closely together in climate action. But let it also be clear that Norway, particularly in energy policy and also in large parts of climate policy, has a very different position from the rest of Europe, and there are some consequences. When we have an entry of 69 pst. renewable energy in our energy consumption, it is high above what is in the rest of Europe. The measures we are going to take to move forward will necessarily be more costly than those in Europe otherwise, because we are picking higher hanging fruits than the rest of Europe is doing. That is why we need to be very conscious of how EU policy will take action in Norway if it is to be practised in Norway: what are we to do in Norway? This isn't about ambition, it's about how we're going to achieve them. There's not a point in itself that reaching the ambitions should sweat or pain. There's no climate in itself. Let me take something that really worries me, as the council says here. He says that the Workers' Party does not have great ambitions, because we defend the industry in terms of the climate quota system, ETS. I assume that he then refers to our strong concern about the continued fate of CO 2 compensation in the ETS system. It's not even about greenhouse gas emissions, it's about Norwegian industry being driven by clean renewable energy, having to pay a price in its power price because there's CO 2 pricing in the rest of Europe. Emissions from this industry are treated in the same way as all other emissions. Therefore, this is a shining example of the fact that what may appear to be sensible in other countries is not sensible in Norway. There are other examples as well. Forest has been mentioned here – a very good example. What is important for Norway in the further work – both in order to achieve and contribute to real cutbacks, and in order to make it as cost-effective as possible? There are a number of other questions about this as well. We need to cooperate with Europe and the EU, but we have national interests in this – economically, but we also need to make sure that we become an actual and real driver in the fight to reduce emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3221	Per Rune Henriksen drew up a debate here at the end about the special situation Norway is in relation to the EU. But he also brought forward the one thing that is special with Norway in relation to the rest of Europe, namely that we have a very high share of renewable energy. The renewable energy called for the majority of governments to return to the Storting with regard to the energy message and to create a clear plan for how we could use renewable energy to phase out fossil energy. The chosen government to not do so. It's one of those things that's special about Norway. Of the other two things that are special about Norway, one is that we have much higher energy consumption and CO 2 emissions than the other countries in Europe. Norway is one of the five–six countries in the world that use the most energy per capita — most definitely. We are also well above the EU average of emissions per capita. That is why I do not agree with Per Rune Henriksen when he says we have to think about what is expensive. We also have to think about having a bigger footprint than the average citizen in the EU has, and that means that if there are only zero emissions that are good enough, we actually have to go down at a higher rate than many of the others have to do in order to achieve those targets. The government's policy doesn't. It just says, "We have to go at the pace that the market requires us to go, and that the EU's quota price at any time requires us to go." The third thing that's special about Norway is that we're a big oil producing nation. There is an important point here, because Norway does not support EU climate policy on energy efficiency improvement – we do not go into the same level as EU countries do. We are going against part of the energy efficiency improvement that is taking place, and it is clear that this is against Norwegian gas production. We do not want to assume renewable energy obligations on the same line as EU countries do, and that is because we know that renewable energy is being used for the displacement of fossil oil and fossil gas. Internationally, the government does not work for the rainforest to absorb CO 2 and prevent CO 2 emissions and thus prevent global warming, but will instead keep the rainforest standing in such a way that Norwegian oil can become aviation gasoline and that the rainforest can be replaced by increased emissions from the aviation sector in the way it does, and for which the government argues very strongly. There is no doubt that the fact that we are the oil nation that we are has given us enormous wealth. However, there is no doubt that it reflects the positions Norway is taking internationally and towards the EU. With today's government, which consists of a number of climate negators, it has unfortunately led the government to take a very small offensive position.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3241	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3261	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Olaug V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: “The government asks the government to ensure that emergency surgery and trauma function in Odda Hospital continue as today.” Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure continuous emergency surgery and trauma function at Narvik Hospital.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3301	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Olaug V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a clean-up and coordination of the use of concepts in terms of requirements and competences for the reception of injured patients in emergency hospitals and, in an appropriate manner, promoting this matter for the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that if the distance from the trauma centre for the patients is more than 45 minutes, the local hospital shall have trauma function.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government through a mission document to regional health companies to require current trauma functions on existing emergency hospitals to underpin the development of the regional trauma system.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3346	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party proposal No 4, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Center Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure the establishment of several educational positions, in particular in local hospitals.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3372	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 3, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to set up a call-out scheme for training positions for doctors who ensure recruitment in today’s low-recruitment areas.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider changing the procedures for the allocation of turns, including assessing the possibility of introducing central interview rounds for LIS1 candidates, changing the way in which the distribution of LIS1 is made into a coordinated application system, as well as the creation of several LIS1 positions.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3396	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the new specialty training requirement for doctors contains: Requirements specification, learning objectives and learning activities compulsory services in home medical departments requirements for simple surgical skills contained in the previous rotational practice to perform simple surgical interventions and assist in some types of operations; compulsory national learning activities, including courses in emergency medicine and the course of the county; concrete procedural lists specific requirements for having seen and followed internal medical patients with normal conditions, cf. the concrete objectives proposed by the working parties.’;» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3448	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party proposal No 2, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to promote the necessary financial measures to strengthen the recruitment of surgeons for local hospitals.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3474	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the swift start of an investigation into a module to ensure that doctors with different main surgical specialities can have additional speciality in general and emergency surgery and/or the continuation of the speciality in general surgery with adjusted contents against general surgery and emergency surgery, to ensure a sufficient number of surgeons who may be in general specialist care, and to facilitate measures to ensure the recruitment of surgeons to local hospitals.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3507	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Ketil Kjenseth on behalf of the Centre Party and the Left the proposals No 2 and 3 from Ketil Kjenseth on behalf of the Left There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate a national system for the recording and bottling of donors — with ‘bank ID’ for blood banks.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asked for a model for the organisation of blood management according to the model of the Netherlands.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3540	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a strategy for the increased recruitment of new donors.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3573	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Olaug V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party the proposals No 5 and 6, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought to the attention of the government to establish that the child’s needs and mental health should always be carefully monitored by place in foster homes or in a child protection institution.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the use of individual plans for children in need of both child protection and health care.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3597	SV votes for the proposal No. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3602	The Socialist Left Party has then announced its support for the proposals No. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3614	SV shall vote for any remaining proposals, except for proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3619	It's noted. There is then a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to investigate a fully funded ‘child protection reform’ in line with the recommendations of NOU 2016:16 and to promote appropriate action on this matter for the Stortinget.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3636	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 4, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought by the government to legislate cooperation agreements between child protection, health institutions and municipalities with content requirements, including procedures at cross-sectoral locations, and a dispute resolution system.’ [[rust and psychiatry]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for better accessibility of mental health services for children and young people in the municipality by, inter alia, setting up municipal follow-up teams for children and young people with complex needs, using recruitment grants for community psychologists to strengthen the provision of services to children in the field of child protection and to continue wage subsidies for staff undergoing further education in the field of drugs and psychiatry.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3660	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to set up a child-rescue system to strengthen the general medical services of child-rescue institutions.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens will vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3690	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3715	During the debate, one proposal has been put forward, from the Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal was submitted after the deadline laid down in Section 40 of Storting’s Rules of Procedure. The President has reason to believe that the Storting will nevertheless take up the motion for a resolution. It shall be deemed to have been adopted. In the course of the debate, the proposal was amended to read as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to stop all ongoing cutting processes in the Home Guard until the Landmaktningare handled at Stortinget.’ The Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3762	The President assumes that the Right and the Advance Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-15.ana.ud16e3794	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
