ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e28	The representative of Arild Grande, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The called alternate of the Telemark County, Lise Wiik, has taken the seat. The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e43	On behalf of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e48	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e53	I will make a proposal for a representative on behalf of the child protection representatives Heidi Greni, Per Olaf Lundteigen and myself on health care for children. Then I have a proposal, on behalf of the big-time representatives Heidi Greni, Per Olaf Lundteigen and myself, to introduce a closeness reform into child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e60	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e76	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Børge Brende and the Councils of State Bent Höie and Per Sandberg will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e85	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We now experience that the political situation of our most important allies is more marked by unforeseeableness than what we are used to. Although we have received good assurances in the security policy that the alliance solidarity in NATO is established, we see a new course in other areas. If we look back at the question area that the Foreign Minister took part in last November 9th, the morning after the US presidential election, we all remember that we aroused the hope of reconciliation in American politics, after an election campaign that had split the people of America. While former presidents have had one policy in the election campaign and a more consensus-oriented line once they have taken up the presidential chair, we now see that the new president does not have the direct goal of acting as collectors. Under President Obama, the political community between the United States and Norway has been very close. Then it is important to remember that in much of the post-war period there has been a significant distance between us and our main ally in the security policy. The Vietnam War, which took place in Chile in 1973 and the Iraq War in 2003, are examples of this. But our friendship has endured disagreement and direct talk between good friends and allies. Now it is the ban on entry from some Muslim-dominated countries that creates enormous reactions, both internally in the United States and in other parts of the world, including here in Norway. Without warning, people who used to have access are banned from the United States. Not treating people as individuals, but as a group based on religious affiliation, is contrary to the positive values that we associate with the United States. What will the Minister for Foreign Affairs do to express Norwegian views on this policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e96	Thank you for an important question and a good analysis. I fully agree with Huitfeldt's representative that during periods in the past we have also had important points of disagreement with the current administration in the United States, but there has never been any doubt that transatlantic cooperation has not least been a pillar of our security policy. It is also quite right, as the representative states, that the strongest responses to, for example, are being made. The entry ban – which is now linked to seven countries – is temporary and will last for 90 days – has arrived in the United States. There have been demonstrations, there have been strong markings, and it is already such that this entry ban is somewhat adjusted. Those who have a so-called Green Card, let in. It has also become clear during the night that refugees who were to be resettled and who were on their way over, now they get to come – they were sent back. We also received an important clarification from the U.S. Embassy in Oslo yesterday afternoon that Nordics who have double citizenship, and there are many of them, are also receiving their visa cases. Like many other European countries, both the Prime Minister and I have been very clear about the entry ban for these seven countries, and also about not accepting any refugees in the next 120 days. I have stated that this is very regrettable, and this is also communicated – even on Twitter, and it is probably the most effective form of communication in the day. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e105	In the last few years, Norway has, among other things, Americans have been working to combat the ISIL terrorist organisation by strengthening and supporting Sunni Muslims addressing the fight against radical Islam. I fear that the ban on entry may build up under what is ISIL's worldview, that there is a religious war between the West and Islam. This may make work more difficult – it will increase the resistance of moderate Muslims. How will the Minister of Foreign Affairs help us to make wise choices in cooperation with moderate forces in the Middle East in the fight against terrorism?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e110	This is also a very important point and is one of many paradoxes of this entry ban. This has also been emphasised by the Prime Minister in his comments, namely that the objective of combating violent extremism is becoming more difficult through such an initiative and a decision by the Trump Administration that seeks to select seven countries, which are mainly Muslim, and that there should be a ban on entry from them into the United States. This leads to very strong reactions, and what you have to build on in the further work, not least in the broad coalition against ISIL, where the Arab countries have also sat in the driver's seat, is working and working with moderate sunniers, who are as much against ISIL as we are.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e115	There will be follow-up questions – first Åsmund Aukrust.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e120	There are many areas where there is reason to fear a new course, and an area where there is really reason to believe it is in climate policy. It didn't take many hours after we got a new president until all the references to climate change had disappeared from the website of the White House. In the election campaign, climate change was presented almost as a Chinese conspiracy, and the new president promised to withdraw the country from the Paris agreement. If he succeeds, we don't know, but at least what we know is that the leadership we've seen under Obama, Kerry and Clinton will not continue, and there's reason to fear and believe that there will be great cuts in international climate finance. It is clear that this must affect us and our commitment, because in Europe too, we have seen that there have been proposals for cutting climate finance, including at home in Norway. We just have to say that we can no longer have that. So my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is, how does he think that the new situation in the United States must affect Norway and Europe, so that we can engage to ensure a new leadership in international climate policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e125	First of all, I would like to say to the Trump administration that the climate as the great existing threat to our environment does not disappear even if you take it away from the websites of the White House, to say it carefully. Climate change is one of the major challenges of our time, along with poverty reduction. So I hope that in the future you will also see that the US administration will continue to work to reduce global CO 2 emissions. But the first signals have not been positive, and the new leader of the EPA, the Environmental Protection Agency, in the United States also has no faith in the context of CO 2 emissions and greenhouse gas emissions. This means that we need to be even clearer, and climate finance is becoming even more important on our part.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e136	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e141	I have registered with pleasure the clarity that Foreign Minister Børge Brende and Prime Minister Erna Solberg have shown both when it comes to the fact that the United States will not accept refugees, and the ban on entry, and that is because we treat people as individuals, not as a group. We should not treat Muslims in one way and Christians in another way – so I am pleased. EU President Donald Tusk has sent a letter to his Heads of State calling the US Government a threat to the EU. He writes: ‘The particular change in Washington puts the EU in a difficult situation. The new administration seems to be asking questions in the last 70 years about US foreign policy.’ My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Is he in agreement or disagreement with EU President Tusk who refers to the US government as a threat?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e154	I choose my own words. But what I want to say about what Tusk has written is that there is a legitimate, strong concern in the European Union and a great surprise in the European Union about the performances that have come from the United States in terms of the EU and European cooperation as a construction. When the administration in the United States says it's positive with brexit and you indirectly encourage other countries to consider the same, it's not helpful – to put it that way – it's really very regrettable, because in the situation we're in, with challenges, a more unpredictable Russia, Turkey and the whole of North Africa, we need a stronger EU, an EU that can now stand up to the values that will shape Europe in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e161	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e166	The evening post wrote on 29 January that U.S. government powers will use the next 120 days to go through the control procedures and the application and authorisation process for refugees. But if the new rules aren't in place by 120 days or President Trump thinks they're not good enough, the entry ban can be renewed. There are some questions that arise. How does the Minister of Foreign Affairs think that Norway should react if what has been said to be a temporary ban, which is more than bad enough, should prove to be more permanent, and has the Minister of Foreign Affairs communicated his scepticism to what is happening in the United States, to the new administration?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e171	I think we've been more than clear about this not accepting refugees for resettlement in the United States in the next 120 days. And if I understood correctly what came, you operate with an even longer temporary deadline for Syrian refugees – I wonder where it comes from – it's perhaps one of the groups that really need protection. I am very concerned that you will not accept the refugees you have told you to accept, and if you see the number of quota refugees for resettlement taken by the United States, it is also relatively small in relation to the population. While we in Norway are at the top in terms of the reception of quota refugees in relation to the population, the United States is not so good – and now they are not going to accept any, at least not in 120 days.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e176	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e181	Norway is in the forefront of receiving quota refugees, and I think that is very good, and perhaps we should also receive more when the number of asylum seekers drops. I intend to follow up on the main question. In today's newspaper, former E-Manager of Norway, Grandhagen, who is well respected in public debate, goes out and says that he is concerned about the evolution he sees in the United States: ‘I’m not hiding that I’m very worried. I've spent the last few years worrying about Russia and the Middle East. Today, I am more concerned about the United States because this country has so great implications for the rest of the world." One of the things he refers to is what in the newspaper has been entitled ‘Russian Romance’. Russia is a big neighbour of us, and the United States is our most important ally. The new relations between Russia and the United States seem to me to be a little daunting. It will also affect Norway as a small country at the Russian border. Does the Foreign Minister share Grandhagen's concerns?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e195	A little further down in the interview, Grandhagen also states that the United States is a robust democracy, and that there is a great deal of disagreement within the United States about this, and not least in the Senate and the House of Representatives, which is very clear, for example, in the United States. the question of penalties. When imposing sanctions based on violations of international law, they can only be lifted if they comply with what has been agreed in Minsk 1 and Minsk 2. This is also the case, as the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs said in his question to me at the outset, that in terms of defence cooperation and Atlantic cooperation, good signals have actually come so far, both from General Mattis, who has now become the new Minister of Defence, and also from Rex Tillerson, who is likely to become the new US Minister of Foreign Affairs. So I hope the United States continues a policy that is predictable vis-à-vis Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e202	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e207	The comparison with previous disagreements between Norway and the United States is limping. This is a dramatic and special situation that doesn't look like the disagreements we've had before. In this situation, we see that some countries are protesting early and clearly, for example. Our neighboring country that called in the ambassador in Stockholm to make a clear and direct protest. I appreciate the fact that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is on Twitter. I don't know if Donald Trump is among the Foreign Minister's followers. If there is no direct messaging function that I can recommend, but it would be better if Norway did the same as the Swedes. And my question is, why won't the Secretary of State call in representatives of the U.S. Embassy to make a direct protest? Is it the government's strategy to protest late and unclear rather than early and clear?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e214	There have also been post-war periods in which there has been disagreement between Norway and the United States and which have been demanding. In the past, the Vietnam war was mentioned, and during the Bush administration there was a great deal of disagreement when it came to climate, I was myself the Environment Minister and had very tough confrontations with that administration, about Iraq and so on. But we also need to address the challenges we have now faced, based on what is in Norway’s national interests. When it comes to the issue of entry ban, we chose to contact the US Embassy here, and we also received a reply yesterday that they with double citizenship will now have their visa applications processed. When it comes to calling the ambassador on the carpet, Sweden is the only country we know in Europe. The only other countries we are familiar with that have done so are Venezuela, Sudan and Iran. We chose our way, and it seemed that it did not work so badly, and we have also communicated the other points of view of the right channels based on what is in our national interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e221	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e227	Now we're going to move from the United States, Trump and Obamacare to Norway and 'Høie-care'. Last year the Stortinget adopted the National Health and Hospital Plan. The plan provides guidance for which hospitals are to have emergency surgery and which are not to have it. State Council Höie has commissioned companies to draw up development plans on the basis of the national health and hospital plans adopted by the Stortinget. The government also asked the government to ensure that hospitals with emergency surgery would continue to have it, when patient considerations make it necessary and when quality and patient safety have been taken care of. In addition, the Stortinget said that large hospitals should delegate several tasks to smaller hospitals, so that they can just facilitate emergency surgery. The majority also decided that the government's list of hospitals that can function without emergency surgery should not be taken into account and should lead the local and regional development processes that were to take place, i.e. for hospitals like those in Flekkefjord, Narvik, etc. All decisions on emergency surgery in the country’s hospital shall be taken by 1 April, approximately. Regional health establishments will finally take decisions on behalf of a very large number of hospitals. Does the Council of State believe that the development processes of health businesses follow the decisions taken by the Stortinget and that none of the hospitals mentioned in the hospital address that the Council of State had in January 2016 are in greater danger, after the adoption of the health and hospital plans, of having emergency surgery than other hospitals, and that the process is going as the Council of State has thought?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e236	The government’s aim is not to create ‘Høie-care’, but the patient’s healthcare, and in it there shall be room for both the large and small hospitals. In particular, hospitals should work more together and share tasks. The major hospitals will have a responsibility to see if there are tasks they can add to the smaller hospitals to strengthen their basis, simply because we will need both the large and the small hospitals in Norway in the future. We get older, older people need more hospital care, and many of the elderly live in the areas where the small hospitals are located. Work is now in progress in health regions in line with national health and hospital plans. I perceive that they both follow the requirements set for the process and that the municipalities and the professionals are well involved. Of course, they also follow, in the conclusions and recommendations they come up with, the leadings of the National Health and Hospital Plan. This means that all emergency hospitals should be able to accept and treat patients with common acute diseases, such as: stroke, difficulty breathing, heart disease and acute infections. It is important that they have sufficient competence, and the offer must be predictable, 24/7, and of good quality, and there must be good patient safety. I see that conclusions are now being drawn in the professional investigations that have been carried out. One has come to the conclusion that no changes will be made to the Great Hospital and Volda Hospital. These are the recommendations of the Health West and Health Moor and the Rome Valley. Then we'll look at the other processes that are going on now, but I see that, in a completely different way than what has been usual in the past, they involve the municipalities and with a strong professional commitment come up with good solutions, which I'm sure will preserve a good, decentralised hospital structure in Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e245	Yes, Volda Hospital has been told that they have at least secured the emergency surgery until 2021. But many of the hospitals that were mentioned in your hospital speech last year, examples are Flekkefjord and Narvik, are not given the tasks that large hospitals can give up, as the landfill decision said, just to maintain good competence and quality. What does the Council of State think about enterprises not actually following up on this? Because then the answer in the processes is different because you have not got the assumption that was given in the decision taken by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e252	Now this work is going on, so I think it's a little early to draw the bastant conclusion. Part of this work will also focus on the tasks these hospitals will perform in the future. Here we haven't received the recommendations yet, because it's working now. So I'm busy looking at what was previously the situation of these and too many other hospitals, and it was that they had a continuous death ghost hanging over them. Now the situation is that they know that the Stortinget has put in place leadership to ensure that this is a hospital that is to be continued and further developed, and that the major hospitals are to take responsibility for ensuring that it is a good, decentralised hospital structure. We are moving away from what has been before, namely competition, where the small hospitals have experienced that the only right of existence they have had was to be as similar as the large hospitals. We've now gone away from that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e259	There will be follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e264	A working group set up by Sørlanden Hospital HF is divided into a view on whether Flekkefjord hospital should have emergency surgery. One of the suggestions they make suggests that a tour operator should accept the emergency patients alone. It will in itself cut the emergency surgery offer quite sharply, because many patients will then be driven directly to Kristiansand because the tour candidates do not have the skills they need to assess the patients properly. Today the hospital in Flekkefjord takes care of approx. 80 out of 90 patients themselves. I wonder what the Council of State thinks about this proposal. Will it provide security and security for the hospital in Flekkefjord, or can people expect a sort of cutting-off of important competence, so that the quality and patient safety are so poor and so few people are judged by Flekkefjord Hospital, that one then finally chooses to remove the entire emergency facility at the hospital in Flekkefjord?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e271	I hope that I understand that I cannot go in and pre-conclude a work that is now for investigation in the hospitals. These recommendations, once they have been adopted, in this case of Health South-East, and what will be their conclusion, come anyway on my table. Then, of course, I will assess whether the conclusions drawn there are in line with the National Health and Hospital Plan. These different models that are now being discussed are not desktop models. We listened to the news this week from Nordfjord Hospital, which has a model with a good offer that is adapted to the patient base they have. The manager was out there and said that they have now had it this way for 12 years – and they have not experienced a single time that they have not been able to help the patients who have come to the hospital in a good way. But it's also about the fact that the entire healthcare system, from what's going on in the municipality to the ambulance service, knows which hospital is right for the patient to get to quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e278	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e283	The National Health and Hospital Plan asked enterprises to look at concrete tasks that could be transferred to emergency hospitals in order to maintain competence and the professional environment. Development processes are under way in health businesses around the world. In the signals you can record so far, there are few concrete recommendations in that regard. The State Council answered the main question in general, but I want to ask in particular about what the Stortinget was dealing with in the National Health and Hospital Plan that was about local management, because these things are related. Is the Council of State certain that the requirement of local management, which can be resolved in various ways, is well-managed in the development processes currently under way by regional undertakings?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e288	First, it is that tasks are part of the assessment. So the process that's going on right now is the first to deal with some hospitals and emergency functions in particular. Health regions will then draw up development plans for the whole health region – they have been given a little longer. And then, not least, this question of a greater degree of division of tasks between all hospitals will become a more central issue. I also see that the work on local management is going well. There are different models that have been selected, different in time, but there is no doubt that health regions have perceived what is both my view and that of the Stortinge, that it should be local management, but it should be adapted to local circumstances.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e295	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e301	Soon one year after the Stortingen treatment of the National Health and Hospital Plan, we now see the political results. In reality, health professionals have never had greater power and authority to centralise supply and weaken the professional environment and local preparedness. For Volda, Narvik, Gravdal, Odda and Flekkefjord, the plan did not provide the political clarification requested by both the people and the trade union community. The decision in the hospital plan on urban rental is ignored, and the same applies to the decision on geriatric competence. Acute surgery in several local hospitals is at risk, and development processes are blamed for skin processes, one of which has pre-determined a conclusion. My question is, who should be held responsible if the emergency surgery in Odda, Flekkefjord, Gravdal and Narvik is completed? Is it the director of the health club, is it the council, or is it the majority, then with the government party in the head?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e308	The entire representative of Toppe's presentation of the situation is wrong, from a to a. Firstly, all these processes are now in line with the requirements proposed by the Stortinget and by us in the National Health and Hospital Plan. The conclusions and recommendations that will be made will be within that framework, and the final decisions will end on my table and become my responsibility. This contrasts quite sharply with the situation as the Centre Party was responsible for hospitals in Norway, as it was a blackmail game and as far as possible tried to push these questions downwards on health businesses and not take political responsibility, either for how hospitals would develop in Norway or for who made the decisions. I am in close contact with many of those who are in these processes. They don't describe it as skin processes. On the contrary, municipalities have been represented in these working groups in a completely different way than in the past. That there is disagreement, is no surprise, but very often the municipalities are actually in the majority of some of the working groups, and we also see that reflecting in the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e313	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e318	With regard to the National Health and Hospital Plan, we can use Flekkefjord and Sørlanden Hospital as an example, because one of the discussions is also that some people have ambitions to create a university hospital in Sørlanden hospital their region – in Kristiansand, in concrete terms. An additional question here is whether the Council of State perceives that there is still one of the ambitions of some health companies, that we should have more university hospitals in Norway, despite the fact that the plan of health says we should not, because it also affects the debate between Flekkefjord and Kristiansand and the distribution of those resources. Another discussion that nobody draws up is that there are some areas of Norway that do not have an emergency hospital, which may not have an air ambulance either, and hardly have an ambulance service. Also in that part, we need to be calmed down. It is also approx. 500 suicides a year. We have 270 overdoses. Sometimes there are some people who have a lot of knife on their brains, but we also have some sick patients who don't need emergency surgery, but who need help with their heads. Is the Council of State calmed down with regard to the plans for the mentally ill?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e325	It is quite right, as the representative says, that for many years there has been a great deal of uncertainty in the South if you still have three hospitals, or one large hospital. There is an uncertainty that has now been removed. There is no doubt that we will have three hospitals in the South even in the future, both in Flekkefjord, in Kristiansand and in Arendal. It may be that there are still people who have other ambitions, but those ambitions are not going to be realized as long as this government sits and reigns with, among other things. The left and the leaders of the National Health and Hospital Plan remain standing. Then there will still be three hospitals in the South. I fully agree with the problem that the representative raises, that very often the acute, the special, the surgery issue, very much attention, but the biggest difference in Health Norway is that people with drug and mental health challenges have an expected life expectancy that is 20 years shorter than the rest of the population. That's where we really need to increase resources in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e332	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e337	Error from a to, says the Council of State. I think that's a description people in Odda are not familiar with, who now experience another round of uncertainty about the hospital and the future of emergency services, an uncertainty that this government has created through its famous list. When Bent Höie made a choice, he promised that the torches would get an address, a place to go, but over the period it has become more and more unclear where that address really is, and I think people in Odda also wonder about it. Is it the Health West, or is it the Council of State that is responsible for what is to happen now, and for the decisions that are so crucial to the Odda community, to inner Hardanger and to very many people? I think the Council of State is going to take this seriously and not affidavit. People have a right to know who is responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e342	I don't have the trouble at any time. On the contrary, I have very often pointed out that it is precisely one of the challenges, if you are to live with continuous uncertainty about a hospital to continue to exist, and what role it should play. That's why it's so important that we have adopted a national health and hospital plan, and that's also why it's so important that we now implement these processes with good involvement of everyone, as happens in Odda. The representative is wrong when he refers to the list, because we have been very clear to Odda Hospital, from day one, even when the National Health and Hospital Plan was presented, that it is in a special position, and there is now a process with Odda Hospital in parallel with the other processes. It's not unnatural. There's been a lot of discussion around Odda Hospital, but it's not as a result of it. But there is no doubt that those who may disagree with the final decisions know what the address is. It's right here. It is I who meet the protesters outside Stortinget, as I did when I decided to lay down the hospital in Rjukan and in Kragerø. It was my decision, and I am in favour of it. The protesters may meet me outside here if they disagree with the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e347	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e352	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Through Norwegian aid organisations and the media, we have been informed over the last few weeks that refugees have come into a particularly precarious situation in southern Europe. There are crowded clays, poor winter preparedness and more shall have frozen whole. In Belgrade, about 2,000 young people slept in abandoned buildings in the center. In the last few weeks, there has been an experience that the negative degrees in Serbia have gone down to negative 20. Particular difficulties have been reported in several refugee camps in Greece. Elementary human needs such as food, heat, medicine, help with disease and access to sanitary facilities do not exist. Unworthy and inhuman relationships in the camps are told. Despite Norway’s contribution in 2016 to remedy the refugee situation in southern Europe, we see that processes are very slow. Over 60,000 people are trapped in Greece, according to the Refugee Aid, and over 7 000 in Serbia, according to Doctors Without Borders. It is good that the government is now following our commitments and has finally gained momentum in the relocation of refugees. However, it must be said that the government has spent a long time getting started. It is important that Norway quickly fulfils its quota of the EU relocalisation programme. Here in the Grand Duchy, Norway has to step up its efforts in the vicinity of the refugees. There is a great responsibility on Norway and the rest of the world community to help create hope for the future of those who are the victims of the greatest refugee crisis after the Second World War. In the short term, it is about ensuring adequate emergency aid, so that the humanitarian needs of refugees and migrants are met. The long-term solutions are about creating good and safe surroundings in the vicinity, so that one will not be forced into the perilous Mediterranean voyage. In view of this: what means will the Council of State use to contribute to a European agreement to significantly increase efforts to find good solutions to the refugee crisis, both in Europe and in the so-called neighbourhoods?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e365	I share the representative's concern about the situation of many refugees, asylum seekers and migrants, not least around the Mediterranean. For this reason, Norway has made significant humanitarian contributions, including in, for example: Greece. But what the representative addresses is a much broader question about how to step up assistance to those in difficult situations, not only inside Syria and neighbouring countries, but also throughout North Africa. This was also an important topic in the discussions I had with the EU Vice-President, Federica Mogherini, on Monday in Brussels, where she has now initiated a follow-up conference linked to Syria, as a follow-up to the Norwegian-initiated donor country conference in London. Unfortunately, it may seem that only the EU and Norway have yet fully fulfilled the commitments we made to the Syrian population at the London Conference. The conference that will be held in Brussels by Mogherini, and where we will cooperate with the EU, will have one dimension that is related to peace and reconciliation and the re-establishment of talks on peace in Syria and the continuation of truce, but also a final political solution, and another dimension that is about how to step up aid to countries in vulnerable situations. For example, what we experience. in Libya, where there are hundreds of thousands of migrants, this is not now largely acidic. There are very few acids, but there are many from Niger, Nigeria and Gambia, and how are we going to be more able to help these too in their homelands, so that they do not feel the same pressure?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e375	I thank you for your answer. The challenges are particularly critical in Greece and Serbia. The system in Greece is overburdened, and Serbia also has major challenges in managing migration. Millions of Norwegian kroner have been transferred to humanitarian work, and that's good. But the situation seems to have worsened for the refugees who live in Greece and Serbia in particular. Has the Council of State been in contact with Greek and Serbian government powers to offer support, in order to find a quick solution to the acute situation they are experiencing? Have we asked the government in Greece and Serbia whether there is anything concrete that we can do when it comes to clothing, equipment, sanitary conditions or support to ensure that the refugees get hold of their heads?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e382	This was also a topic in the Brussels talks, and I have warned that if necessary, Norway will be able to further escalate our humanitarian contributions. We also assess that into Greece, possibly also into Serbia. I'm going to visit Serbia in two to three weeks and have already spoken to Prime Minister V?ci? on these challenges. In 2016, Norway spent both humanitarian and EEA funds on the refugee crisis in Greece and humanitarian aid amounted to 35 million. I'm going to go to Greece. But we are now considering further contributions – we had a discussion about this already yesterday – because it is terrible what we have now seen, that the cold hits and people just die in refugee camps in Greece, in Greek islands, where the North goes like tourists. It's heartbreaking.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e389	There will be follow-up questions – first Heidi Greni.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e395	The flow of refugees to Greece is larger than Greece can handle in a good way. The humanitarian situation is acute and critical, and there is little doubt that Greece is among those who put the greatest burden on the flow of refugees into Europe. In view of this, it is natural to ask questions as to whether the time has come for Norway to resume Dublin return to Greece. The Commission is now opening up Dublin transfers, and the Central Party obviously believes that the Dublin Agreement should be followed up. As I understand it, the government is now aiming to resume Dublin return to Greece gradually from 15 March. Does the Council of State believe it is natural for Norway to resume Dublin returns at this stage, or does the Council of State think that Greece is under such great pressure and has so much to deal with from before, that until we have better burden-sharing, we should wait to resume Dublin returns from Norway to Greece?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e400	With regard to refugees, asylum seekers and immigrants, we now see the strongest pressure on Italy. Last year, almost 200,000 came across the Mediterranean to Italy. It's related to the fact that the line from Libya is still open. Following the EU agreement with Turkey, we have seen a sharp decline in the number of people crossing the Aegean Sea. However, it is true that Greece has challenges in the islands, where people have come into large numbers in the past, and their distribution in the EU takes time, this so-called reallocation mechanism. That's why I now notified Navarsete that we strongly consider contributing further. Norway has, I see now, after looking at the papers, contributed 160 million. to support Greece in managing the refugees arriving in the country, including through EEA funds. As regards the Dublin criteria and the agreement, the responsibility for this is the Minister for Immigration and Inclusion. I ask for an understanding that this question has to be asked to her.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e407	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e412	Many of the refugees who come to Europe come from vulnerable states. At the same time, the Minister of Foreign Affairs warned that more of Norwegian development aid should be channelled to vulnerable countries, for there is the most poor. At the same time, however, there is a discussion about what should be the goal of Norwegian aid. Is it to contribute to development or to prevent migration?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e417	I'm very pleased with that question. Then I get once and for all the opportunity to clarify it, even if I have done so before. The government’s big message to the Stortinget will state that the main objective of Norwegian aid is poverty reduction. It is also sustainability objective No. 1, that we should eliminate all extreme poverty by 2030. Unfortunately, in helping the poorest and most marginalised in the world, more and more of these people are residents of countries in very vulnerable situations. It's about a belt south of Sahara, the so-called Sahel, which goes down through Sudan, to Eritrea and down to Somalia, and then we can take Yemen, unfortunately, and away to Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e422	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e427	The representative of the Navarset, particularly the refugees that Europe has promised to receive, who came to Italy and Greece, i.e. those that we are going to realize. There are 160 000 refugees. So far, the fasitite is that only a little over 1,000 of the 160 000 have been reallocated. In Norway we promised to receive 1500-750 last year and 750 this year. So far, by the turn of the year, the number of people we've received was 20. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs address precisely this issue with his colleagues in the European Union, that we are all responsible for the commitment we took on, namely the 160 000 refugees who came to Italy and Greece and for whom Europe should jointly take responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e432	When countries assume responsibility for receiving refugees, they must comply. The whole word ‘real location’ is a rather cold word in that context. It's actually about taking your share of responsibility. Now the details about this are not the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but what I can promise the representative is that we – and I – will remind people and my colleagues about the responsibility they have assumed. Norway has provided 1,500 places for the relocation of asylum seekers in Greece and Italy, and this is something we have been recognised for by the EU, that Norway was early off the alert, and that we have taken a great deal of responsibility in relation to the population. As for how many have come so far, I don't have a full overview of it, but we accept those commitments.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e438	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e443	I want to go back to the reports we get from Greece, which are quite heartbreaking – people freeze in their hearts and don't get to meet their basic needs. The left is very supportive of the Dublin agreement, but it has always been practised in such a way that it actually assesses the situation in the country to which it is returned. It's a little bit of a signal when even until the centre party here today promises that you're critical of starting your return to Greece. I understand that this is not part of the foreign minister's portfolio, but has the Foreign Minister received the reports we have received from Greece about the situation of the refugees there, and the situation that Greece is in right now, about accepting refugees? And then we can draw the conclusion as to whether it is right for Norway to return to that country afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e450	When it comes to getting along with the humanitarian situation, I think I was relatively clear on it instead. I have also seen pictures from these camps, which I think are heartbreaking, and it is not possible that people should freeze in their hearts and die in camps in an EU country in the 21st century, I fully agree with that. Of course, Greece too has a not insignificant responsibility. They have received a lot of humanitarian support, so it must also be a responsibility for that country to organise itself in such a way that this does not happen. But it is clear that there are challenges, and that is why I also warn that we are now looking at stepping up humanitarian aid from Norway. We have to make sure that those in these camps, who have come to Greece, experience a viable and manageable situation. And then I leave to my colleague to respond to the details of these Dublin provisions and the Dublin agreement on returns.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e455	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e460	In 2015, the Green Party agreed to an agreement that increased the number of quota refugees to Norway to 8 000 in the period 2015-2017. Since then, the number of asylum seekers coming directly to Norway has increased very strongly and has been substantially reduced again. Now, the situation is that the number of people in the Middle East passing through North Africa — in transit and with relief needs — is at least as high as ever, while many borders in the EU are closed and the number of refugees arriving all the way to Norway is significantly reduced. In such a situation, the government would consider participating in a discussion about increasing the number of quota refugees directly to Norway, for example. to 10,000, which is the number that multiple batches have as their original goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e467	This question has been duly answered by both the Prime Minister, me and other members of the government earlier this week. Norway is one of the countries receiving most quota refugees for resettlement compared to the population in the world. We take a big responsibility, and that's right. But it can't be like that, for example. When the Trump administration has now decided to introduce a moratorium of 120 days, then we will others take that responsibility for the United States. That is why we are now increasing the political pressure on these issues. Then the representative also addresses a much larger issue related to the migration pressure. It's been a quadruple of the population in Africa since 1950. Today there are 1.1 billion people in Africa, and there will be 2 billion in 2050. What we have to ensure is that there will be development, jobs and opportunities for these young people in Africa. We are not able to solve all these challenges through migration to Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e474	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e479	It's probably the foreign minister who's still getting his muscles trained up here, he's probably going to have to go up and go again. A hundred years ago, Norway was a lukewarm country, and when we explain Norway as a rich country today, it is often the oil that gets credit for it. That's not exactly right. The main reason Norway is a rich country is that women are involved in professional life, participate in value creation, and it is characteristic of many of the Western countries that have managed to build a wealth in their country, namely that both sexes participate equally actively in the value creation of society. So equality – and the Left’s djerve seized hundreds of years ago to strengthen equality – has helped to form the basis for Norway’s wealth today. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is also the Minister for Assistance in Norway. I believe that women's participation in society, women's rights and women's ability to contribute to value creation are one of the keys to generating growth in a country. This is why equality and women’s efforts are very important in aid, and therefore women’s health is an important part of the aid work. And working with women's rights and contributing to the values on which we have built our well-being, that is, a highly equal society, is an important key to creating growth in other countries. So my question to the Foreign Minister today is whether he shares the Left's analysis of how to build wealth and well-being in a society, and whether it should also be one of the main pillars when we think about aid policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e488	The short version of the answer is ‘yes’, but I guess the representative wants me to be a little more complete than that. Women's participation, women's rights are fundamental human rights. Fulfilling those human rights also contributes to good economic development, but it is a side effect. What we're experiencing today, that women's rights are under pressure globally, is very worrying and really a very negative move in time. I feel that at international conferences – and not only when I am wearing the Minister of Assistance hat, but unfortunately also when I am wearing the other hat, as Minister of Foreign Affairs – they say that these are ‘Western’ values that we pusher. These are universal rights that women have, and I can't believe you're starting to question. So to economic development in Norway: that almost 80 pst. of women taking part in the labour market, has of course been an important part of economic progress. Not least after World War II, we've pulled alternations on that labour force. All the favours of the Left – not only for women’s voting rights, but also for a number of other things. I wondered if the representative might also mention the hydropower, where we made sure that that taxing benefited the people. With regard to future women's efforts, I can assure the representative that this is an important part of our aid policy and will be so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e499	I'm not going to rip up the concession laws. The challenge now is that we see women's rights being challenged – much from countries that have traditionally done so, but what we've seen in the last week is a president in the United States who cuts money for women's health, who cuts at the possibility for women to take control of their own family planning, which we know is the key. Girls who can postpone first pregnancy take longer education, which we've been involved in in the latest budgetary processes. There's a lot of things about women's rights. We've experienced American presidents who've done this before. In that case, Norway has really set itself in front of it in order to cover up. Because it's such an important key to getting aid growing that women and women's health are put on, and that women get control of their own bodies and their own health.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e508	We're already using approx. 1.2 B.C.E. SEK of our aid budget for women, equality and reproductive health. The signals that have come from the United States and Trump that support should no longer be given to organisations working for safe abortions and for reproductive health in developing countries are very worrying. As a result, we will go to the step further to escalate our assistance in this area. Then we send a signal, also to help many women and not least girls who need this help from these organizations, because they have to close important programs if these cuts are implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e516	There will be follow-up questions – first Ketil Kjeseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e521	On the basis of what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said, I must send a compliment to Burnde. Because in the previous debate he has said that when the United States takes action, we cannot take greater responsibility. But now the Foreign Minister says that we should actually take greater responsibility for women's health and reproductive performance. We're going to go from seven to nine billion people on the globe. On the way there, hundreds of thousands of women are going to die. Today 300,000 women and girls die in pregnancy, about 50000 die after abortion. So there's a great need to improve the situation. With Trump's signals about the Global Gag Rule and cut off many ideal actors, who are missing out on this information work, it's important that we do a job. But the question then is how to spend that money. Sanitary women are one example of those who do a lot of non-profit activities. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs bring them out more to do that work?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e530	In terms of the channel choices for bets on reproductive health and safe abortions and on women and gender equality, we need to select the channels that are the most effective. Now it's like this, I'll assume that e.g. The UN Population Programme – UNFPA – receives reduced appropriations. I will now ask that Norad analyse the situation and select the channels that are as effective as possible. I would assume that the Sanity Association will also be involved in those assessments, but I don't think I'm going to distribute grants and determine the beneficiaries from the Stockholm Chair. I also want to add that the educational effort to which not least the Left has been an important contributor plays a major role, not least the effort we have had on girls. We've doubled the assistance for the education of girls in three and a half years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e537	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e542	As the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, the commitment to women and education has been a very important and correct commitment from this government. What is not so positive is that the items on reproductive health have actually been cut off from the budgetary agreements made between the government and the supporting parties. This applies, for example: the rights of women to reproductive health through what is called the UN Population Fund. Now the Minister for Foreign Affairs has some other signals, so my question is quite specific: will he correct the cuts that have been made in these posts since he took over as Minister for Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e547	As regards the investment in women’s and girls’ education, etc., there has been an overall increase in this ageing period. Last year, in 2016, we also increased appropriations for reproductive health and safe abortions. What I'm warning you is that in the current year we're going to further increase this bet. That's because it's important, and there's a very significant stake in a situation where we see that women and girls' rights are under pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e552	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e557	There is a low polemics factor in the hall today, so I'm going to try to ask two questions and have confidence that the Foreign Minister will respond to both. First of all, I want to follow up on both Huitfeldt and Skei Grande. It is especially reproductive health that is now a problem as a result of the Trump administration cut and its so-called ‘Gog Order’. This will lead to more deaths, but also many more dangerous abortions. The United States has now joined forces with many of the more reactionary regimes in the world that are fighting for progress in women's rights. So, first of all, I want to ask what the government has actually planned to do to compensate for the policy that the US has now announced. But second, I wonder if the government has made some somewhat more general, long-term, strategic ideas about the pressure women's rights are now being subjected to, not only from the regimes we're used to challenging them, but also from our most important allies and the world's largest donor of aid, the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e564	We also experienced that the U.S. under the Bush administration cut in exactly the same posts and related to the Gag Order as it is called. It was also necessary to contribute to alliances in this context, not least in Europe, to ensure that there were no major cuts that really hit girls and women in developing countries. We have already discussed it in the Nordic region, among the Nordic Foreign Ministers and the Ministers for Assistance, and this is also a topic that is now being discussed in Europe. So I'm looking at a possible material increase in the contribution to reproductive health this year, and I've asked Norad to look at the possibility of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e569	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e574	I'm afraid I have to ask the Foreign Minister to come up again. We are seeing the day by day the development of a more extreme, dangerous and cold policy from the new administration in Washington. It's about a lot of things, what we've just discussed here, that American, powerful men think they should be able to use the aid budget to control women's bodies and lives around the world, which can cost thousands of lives and is a form of moralistic imperialism. We see the ban on entry, described by the President's own adviser as a Muslim ban, which is, of course, deeply discriminatory, deeply alarming and contrary to the values that the West claims we represent, and which is dangerous because it can both contribute to a social climate with increased heat and violence against Muslims, and, of course, act as an encouragement to the terrorists that are claimed to be affected. The new American government is turning its back on refugees in distress. It has announced a deep cut in the UN, announced that it will leave the climate agreement, and says that ‘America first’ should be the basic principle of government policy. As a result, even those parties in Norway that have cooperated with the United States as carriers in their policy must begin to see that we are a place where there will be doubt about the American security guarantees, and fear of increased tension internationally. In addition, we see a twist towards the ilberal authoritarian, which should worry us all. We thought we were living at a time when we were tearing walls, and then we were living a time when we were building walls instead. We've heard a lot about what the government won't do – don't protest directly, don't be a response country, etc. But what's the government plan? If Norway is not going to be a response country, what are we going to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e586	I think we had a good and nuanced exchange of views on this in the debate following Huitfeldt's question. It was found that the strongest resistance to some of the Trump administration initiatives and decisions has actually been experienced in the United States. It is a lively debate on this. We have also previously dealt with US administrations where there has been disagreement between Norway and the United States on important points, but also between Europe and the United States. At the same time, there is no doubt that the pillar of our security policy remains transatlantic cooperation. Over eight years with the Obama administration, we had the very best and the closest relationship to the United States. The aim is – in the context of a new administration – to take care of Norway’s interests in this context and build on cooperation in areas where we can continue to cooperate. That's where I mean, for example. cooperation in NATO and transatlantic security cooperation is crucial, and positive signals have been received on both NATO, Article 5 and the desire to continue cooperation. Then it's also the case in the United States that you have a lot of "checks and balances", and among them is Congress. Where the president gets through his policy is where he agrees with the majority in Congress. For example: more protectionism, in terms of sanctions issues, Russia and NATO, there are also very strong signals from Congress that they disagree with some of the signals that have arrived.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e595	It is important that we discuss what our national interests are, because it is easy to interpret the government to the point that it is in our national interest to proceed cautiously, at least in terms of direct protest. Our main national interest is to defend international cooperation, which is so important for small countries. This is why this is a time to decide — not least to support those in the United States who protest against political developments and who need international support. Therefore, we believe that Norway needs a clear plan to deal with this. SV's plan deals with, among others: about going in to compensate for the cuts in women's health rights, which I now understand the government is doing. That's good. The second is to present the refugees who are now in a rights-free limbo because of the new provisions. The third is to do everything we can for the rights of people in Norway who are affected by the entry ban or the Muslim ban or what we should call it. The fourth is that we have to believe Trump at what he says, and that's probably the most important experience to date. I think that also applies in alliance policy, and that is why we need a strategy to make Norway less dependent on the United States. Then I wonder what the government's plan is.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e602	We've been working strategically on this question for the last year. Just as an illustration: we had Norway's ambassador to the United States at home in Oslo last week, there were broad meetings with our Prime Minister, Minister of Defence and me where we discussed how we should now deal with the situation of the new administration. But we also need to take with us the areas where we don't feel we're being challenged, and one of the areas where there's now an absolute signal to live with is connected to NATO and security cooperation. In the hearings in the Senate of General Mattis, who has now become the new Minister of Defence, and by Rex Tillerson, the new Foreign Minister, they bombastically stated that the NATO Alliance, Article 5, is anchored. There are other signals than what I am, for example. I reacted to it in August/September and got some criticism, but there are statements that I absolutely agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e609	There will be follow-up questions – first Snorre Serigstad Valen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e614	There came very positive signals from the government in the questionnaire, I think, regarding reproductive health and women's rights. That's very good. The contrast between that and the government's response to the U.S. refugee religion is very great. The Prime Minister stated that Norway is not a response country. However, in terms of women’s rights and reproductive health, Norway is clearly a response country. I have to say that I was probably not the only one who was stunned when the Right in a few hours went from saying that ‘we have to look at what opportunities we have to accept more quota refugees as a result of the new situation in the United States’ to then after a progress party play to say that it was not relevant with more quota refugees. Why is Norway a response country when it comes to the important issue of women’s rights, but not the correspondingly important issue of refugees’ rights? The Minister for Foreign Affairs himself said in the Questionnaire earlier today that Syrian refugees have a special need for protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e621	As I have stated earlier, there are a few countries that accept as many refugees for resettlement as Norway, if you look at our population. This is important, that is correct by Norway, and we will continue to do so. But we don't intend to add up to an increase in this, and that's what the Prime Minister has also stated. I would also like to remind you that when it comes to the reception of asylum seekers in 2015, where there were more than 30 000 people in Norway, we were in the very top category in Europe in relation to the population. So it's quite right, as the representative also says, that in terms of reproductive health, we have a tradition of investing heavily in that area. Anyway, it would have been right for us to increase our efforts in this area, and that's why we do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e628	Svein Roald Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e633	The Foreign and Defence Committee was in Washington last week and had some interesting meetings. In the Pentagon, we were told that when the new Minister of Defense came into the house, he himself decided – not after input from the administration, but he himself – that the first person he would call was the Secretary-General of NATO. It's a positive signal. But what's getting exciting is if Trump in his next 'twot' supports his own defence minister. We saw what happened to the temporary Minister of Justice when she wanted to ensure proper proceedings – she was kicked. I believe that the government must be prepared for us to stand firm on our principles. It's not the first time we've stood up to the United States – we did it, for example. when they stamped Nelson Mandela as a terrorist, and we accepted the double decision in 1979. So the government has to prepare to take some tough hold of this administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e640	As far as General Mattis is concerned, I fully agree that it was good that the first phone he made was to NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg and firmed the same thing as he said in the hearings in the Senate, that NATO is anchored, NATO solidarity is crucial for the United States. So I also noticed that when this discussion about the use of torture arose, President Trump finally referred to Minister of Defence Mattis and said that he knew that he was against the use of torture – very wisely and correctly – and that it would be on his table. That was good, too. So I think that in terms of NATO and NATO solidarity, we're not worried. There are several things to be concerned about, but just this is not on that list.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e649	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e654	I have a question for the Minister of Health. I want to start with a quote from an excellent president of the Lege Association. Her name is Marit Hermansen, and she says in an interview with the Medisin of the Day: ‘It does not make sense that newly-trained doctors who are ready to take up the job will be in line. This is the waste of important resources, and is perceived as very frustrating for newly trained motivated doctors.» This is precisely said, and I want to add on my own behalf that it is probably not just the newly-trained doctors who experience frustration. I am absolutely sure that many patients also agree with the newly-trained doctors that there is a need for more specialists in Norwegian hospitals in the future, and that it seems quite pointless that people who have spent so much money, so much resources to get through so far a course of education, experience that they do not complete their education and participate in the clinical reality and treatment of Norwegian patients. In addition, the Medical Association has received support from many teams, not least from the Workers' Party, which has proposed in its alternative budget several years in a row that we should spend some more money to create more turnsites, because it is an effective way to increase capacity for Norwegian patients. At all of these crossroads when we have addressed this, like the Medical Association, the Minister of Health and today's Right Party government has referred to various reviews of the needs of hospitals and municipalities. It has been up to several times that we have been told that there are going to be different reviews, and in this case, the last week, Höie's State Secretary, Anne Grethe Erlandsen, says that it is going to be a review. Then my question is: When is the Minister of Health done with these reviews, and when can he possibly propose more turns to take away the queue of newly trained doctors that exists?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e671	Turning positions for doctors are attractive, and we see that there are more applicants for advertised jobs than there are job vacancies. We also see that the candidate base for the vacancies that are published is also good in the districts. It shows that the conversion of the scheme that has taken place is essentially working very well. There are a lot of people who choose to study abroad, but who are applying for tournament positions in Norway, and this means that there are more applicants for tournament positions than there are places to go. We have chosen to maintain a high number of jobs, 950 per year, despite the fact that I have received recommendations both from the Health Directorate and from healthcare to reduce the number of turns. Norway is a country with a high level of medical coverage compared to other countries. I agree with the representative that there will probably be a need for more specialists in the years to come. In the application round for 2015, there were 938 applicants in the spring. 475 of them got a job, but 482 did not get a job. In the autumn round – there are two rounds a year – there were 597 applicants, of whom 164 were finally unable to get a job. Then it is worth noting that some of the applicants have education from other EEA countries and do not need to complete Norwegian tour service until they can apply for a LIS position, but choose to do so anyway. We have a conversion of the entire specialist training for doctors, and today's tour will be the first mandatory part of the specialisation, so-called LIS 1, from the autumn of 2017, and in this respect we will assess whether there is a need to increase the number of posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e680	I thank you for the answer, which is a good description of today's situation, but the password came at the end. A review of the need, a need confirmed by the Minister of Health of the United Kingdom that is most likely to be present, should be re-examined when re-establishing the training cycle, and therefore the number of places should be increased. I am concerned that today's government is doing very well, for Norwegian hospitals, for Norwegian municipalities and Norwegian patients, but they are also doing a lot that I call strange. A lot of forces are used on many things that can't be said to have any added value for patients, for example. free choice of treatment, which is the Council's performance reform, where 1,700 patients have been treated with tens of millions of dollars in bureaucracy, and state funding of the care of the elderly in which hardly a single municipality will be involved, a crowd of bureaucrats in turn. There is an obvious measure to be taken quickly, with newly-trained doctors in line to complete their education, to help Norwegian patients. Then I think it is strange that you refer again to a new review instead of acting, which you have the opportunity to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e687	I don't think I would use the term ‘a clear measure’ to describe something in which both the Health Directorate and the Health Service have actually recommended the government to go in the opposite direction, namely to reduce the number of turns. I have chosen to maintain a high number of tournament positions because I agree with the main analysis of the Micasen, but then I actually tried the professional evaluation. Then I don't think the 1,700 patients who have received faster help and greater choice through the Free Treatment Choice scheme agree with the Micaels description that this is a measure that does not affect patients. On the contrary, this is important, not least for the 1,700 patients who have been treated, and we see that there are more and more patients using this system. The same applies to the state funding of care for the elderly. The municipalities that are in the arrangement experience this as a very interesting arrangement to be in, and they learn something from it all the way. There is a lesson that we can use in relation to other municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e692	It opens for one follow-up question – Ruth Grung.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e697	Now it turns out that we're facing a generation shift in general medical practice and in the districts. The size has adopted ambitious plans for emergency preparedness, which need to be improved. The situation today is that one fifth of the candidates have foreign education, and, as the Minister has said, education in Hungary can be taken directly into medical positions, while training in Norway, queues and waits for a tour position. Isn't it a little special that with the most expensive education that medical training is, you're waiting to complete and get authorization to practice as a doctor or start your specialization, while having a line of patients at the other end? Is it true that the Minister is actually betting on us to import specialists and doctors in the future, or are we going to train the doctors on our own?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e704	We also have to train doctors on our own, but there is no new situation that about 40-50 pst. of the doctors in Norway have their education from abroad. It's been like this for a long time. It is also clear that Norway is a country with a high level of medical coverage compared to most other European countries, so that it cannot be a main analysis that the challenge related to, for example, In Norway, poor comparisons are made with other waiting health services because we have too few doctors. Many of the measures taken by the government to reduce waiting time and patient queues have worked. We've turned the trend around. Fewer is in line. Wait time's shorter. These include: to ensure that hospitals work more systematically and better with patient treatment and to give patients greater freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e717	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're moving on to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e731	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås to the Minister for Transport, has been withdrawn. Question 13, from the representative Kåre Simensen to the Minister of Defence, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Questions 15, 16, 17 and 18, from the representatives of Stine Renate Håheim, Marianne Aasen, Christian Tunning Bjørnø and Audun Otterstad respectively to the Minister for Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister for Knowledge, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, the questions are moved and answered in response to question 7, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 19, from the representative of Geir Pollestad to the Minister for Fisheries, is being moved and answered for question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e753	‘Youth unemployment is now at a record 11 pst., the highest rate of over 10 years. Several people are concerned whether in the future you will be able to have as good a welfare society as Norway has today. If we spend too much money on tax cuts to the richest rather than investments in future jobs and education, it is the youth who has to pay the price. Why does the government not give priority to an economic policy that underlies the generational contract rather than undermine it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e760	The large oil price drop has created major challenges for the Norwegian economy. The oil companies have had to cut costs, and for the supply companies, the volume of contracts has fallen sharply. Many have lost their jobs, especially in the South and West, and unemployment has increased. Young people may be particularly vulnerable to recession. They have less experience, are often in temporary jobs, and they work more often than others in short-term industries. At the same time, they often switch between work and education, or they combine the two. A large proportion of young people who respond to unemployment are therefore primarily in education. On the other hand, many people can choose to take education, even if they prefer to be at work. The latter can make sense both for individuals and for society for shorter periods, and it has helped to increase flexibility in the Norwegian labour market. Unemployment is difficult for those affected by it, and the main goal of the government is to have as much as possible a safe job to go to. For this reason, the government is actively using fiscal policy to support employment and dampen the increase in unemployment. The budget for both 2016 and 2017 contains targeted action packages against unemployment in the South and Western countries and in the most affected industries. Labour market measures form an important part of the efforts to help unemployed people get back to work quickly when the economic cycle is weak and to avoid permanent exclusion of vulnerable groups. As part of the package of measures, labour market measures have escalated through 2016 and the high level is continuing this year. The government will strengthen efforts towards vulnerable young people and people with disabilities under 30 years of age. The government is therefore undertaking its own youth work. A more unambiguous priority for young people shall provide better follow-up at the Nav offices of this group, with a view to motivating job search and faster transition to work and education. Less aid from the oil industry is a lasting structural change in the Norwegian mainland economy, which cannot be met only by short-term measures. Therefore, the government also responds to long-term migration and growth measures. The government lowers taxes to make it more profitable to work and to create new jobs. We do not reduce taxes for the few, but we have stressed that large groups of the population will benefit from tax relief. Half of the personal tax relief during the government period has gone to people with gross income less than NOK 600 000. Tax changes that strengthen growth capacity and create new jobs are important contributions to the transformation of the Norwegian economy. And we focus on getting the most back for the resources we put into the public sector. The ABE reform is such an example. Economic policy is now making a strong effort to put the unemployed into work and create new profitable jobs. All these steps, together with the efficient use of resources, enable future generations to also experience the joy and security of our welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e777	Now we have just heard the Minister of Finance say that tax cuts to that income group are a blow as long as you continue to increase the fees. The Minister of Finance has done that with three billion dollars. kr, but I can leave it. The thing is that the government's biggest bet when it comes to reducing unemployment is, it's said, cut the wealth tax. The Labour Party has asked the State Council's own agency, the Statistical Central Bureau, and if this money was used more in line with what the Workers' Party believes, i.e. asking for investment through the public, at least 15 times more jobs could be created than the government has done. So there is the seventh quarter in a row where all growth in employment comes from general government, and there are 17 000 fewer employees in the private sector than there were two years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e782	My criticism of the Workers' Party has been to the promise the Workers' Party will give for the next major period to increase the taxes by 15 billion. kr. When the Workers' Party tries to present it as if it's going to be tax-enforcement for those who already have the most, we've been able to prove that it's not right, all the time, 210,000 pensioners are going to experience the increased tax with the Workers' Party's bill. So that's what I've called a blow on people's faces. Nor have we claimed that the main measure to combat unemployment is to reduce taxes on wealth. But this government is able to have more thoughts in its head at once. We have put in place short-term measures to meet the challenges faced by the industries and people concerned in the South and the West, but the fact that we have a strange tax called property tax, which primarily affects Norwegian owners of Norwegian companies in Norway and discriminates against foreign owners, we believe it is a utility. If we had done something about the property tax, it had also created new investments in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e789	I expect that what the Minister of Finance is aiming for with the 210 000 is the 6 pst. the proportion of the population who are retired and pay taxes on wealth. These numbers are quite consistent. But what should concern the Minister of Finance is that young people who do not get into the labour market early have a great chance of staying out of the labour market. Therefore, it would be wise to spend money at a time now in such a way that young people gained association and experience by being at work. The Minister of Finance takes a very great chance when she puts all the effort into creating jobs over time, instead of spending money on creating work for young people so that businesses can build experience, continue to invest in the jobs they create here and now, and so that we do not get a large generation of young people who are permanently outside the labour market. That is why the Workers' Party has also called for a more sensible use of the money, and not for the tax relief of those who have the most from before.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e794	That statement is wrong. The government has not used most of the action space on tax bills for those who have the most of it. That's wrong. We have spent the largest amount of money on infrastructure investments, on knowledge, on research, in important areas, not least we have strengthened the municipal economy more than the previous government did. Then I agree with the representative of Wickholm that there is a risk of staying on the outside of the labour market for too long, the way back to the labour market is much more demanding. That is why I presented in my first response to all the measures that the government is now doing specifically to young people to facilitate their way into working life in a better way than today. I think that is crucial. But it is also wrong when the representative claims that I am betting everything on facilitating that jobs will be done over time. No, this government has managed to do two things. We have put in place short-term measures, which have increased employment in the areas particularly affected by the oil price shock – I myself have been looking at several examples of it, so it works – the action package works. In addition, we need to be able to think in the long term and facilitate growth and value creation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e804	From the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås to the Minister for Transport: «We are inside the government's fourth winter with harmful air pollution. The main instruments requested by municipalities are environmental differentiation of tolls and low-emission zones. In December 2015, the Council of State announced that the government was working on legislation to introduce environmental differentiation in existing bombings. Oslo, Akershus and the State have agreed to introduce environmental differentiation from 1 March this year. Why has the Council of State not yet been able to submit proposals for legislative changes to the Storting and related legislative changes over one year later?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e812	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e820	The question to the Minister for Transport is: ‘The Minister for Transport said in P4 on 26 January that the Oslo City Council should not have listened to the meteorologists’ warning of dangerous air pollution and introduced the diesel car ban in Oslo. Air pollution makes people sick in Oslo and other major cities and leads to foetal harm and more than 185 premature deaths each year in Oslo. Increased mortality has been recorded after days of very high air pollution. Does the government mean that governments should not listen to professional warnings, even if this results in sickness and loss of life?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e829	This government believes that we should listen to professional warnings, and we should have measures that are in line with that. I didn't tell P4 that one wasn't going to do it. What I pointed out to P4 was that the Labour Party City Council leader in Oslo on a live broadcast in Nettavisen said that now all the lights are red, we have to go further, we have to implement the diesel car ban. That's when I pointed out to the P4 that all the numbers we've got show that when Raymond Johansen said that, there were no red lights that lighted up. Then there were green lamps, when there was low air pollution in Oslo. The day before, professionals had said that there was a certain imminent danger that there might be poor air. Ergo was the professional basis for imposing bans. But when morning came, and Raymond Johansen said that now all the lights are flashing red, it was actually not true. It was when I pointed out to P4 that then one cannot claim that one had to proceed with a diesel car ban based on the air quality there and then. So we're going to listen to warnings coming, and we're going to focus on that we can initiate action, but when all the lights light green, it would have been an argument not to go further with the ban. Thus, this has nothing to do with what professionals say before and after, it has something to do with what a town councillor indicates when he is interviewed directly by a journalist, where he simply supplied incorrect information. This government has been concerned that we should improve the air quality of cities. That's why we've increased the stakes on the railway, which will not least benefit Oslo, because it's now more than 100 more train departures from Oslo S than it was before. There are more than 1000 train departures in total. We have made sure that Oslo has four times more money for the reward scheme for public transport now, compared to when the red-green government crashed. We have strengthened the bet on low-emission cars and zero-emission cars. While the previous government made it a huge increase in the number of diesel cars in Oslo, which is part of the cause of the problem, there are now more zero-emission cars because we have made them more attractive. We've increased the appropriations for bike routes over the state budget by about 75 pst. This means that all the instruments that will help improve air quality in Oslo have been strengthened during today's government. And then my claim -- a little flaky, but still with a great deal of truth -- would be that the best thing we did for the air quality in Oslo was to change government in 2013. This has meant that all the means by which these problems can be solved in the long term have been reinforced. I also hope that the Oslo City Council will follow up on the positive instruments, focus more on collective action than they have done, and support railway activity by facilitating bus activity, etc. connects to it. Then together, we can solve the challenges that exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e840	It is excellent that the government cooperates with the City Council on enhanced public transport in Oslo. Then I would like to remind you that the most important measures are for increased public transport, bicycles, meals, etc. in Oslo, comes through the policies implemented by the City Council and the Green Party, and through the means that come from the negotiations on Oslopak 3. So later, the Council of State as if there were no difference between long-term measures and necessary emergency measures, and he has spent time criticising an emergency measure to reduce air quality in Oslo, which was based on bottom-solid advice from anything that could crawl and go, both nationally and in Oslo, on the danger of high air pollution, which was the reason for the imposition of the diesel ban. The question of follow-up will then be: does the Council of State think that his climate vision and meteorological vision should be more important for emergency measures to improve the Oslo air than the advice that has come from professionals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e849	I was just trying to say that there was no vision and that was the reason. What I pointed out, which I was misquoted in the opening question from the representative, was a claim that I had thought that we did not have to take into account the meteorological institute and the warnings of the professionals. That wasn't my argument. My argument is that City Councillor Raymond Johansen is on the Internet and says that now all the lights are flashing red, while the fact is that they were green. Then I said that it seems as if there was a wrong premise on the ground when one goes on with the ban. I do not say that the professionals who warned in advance were wrong, but I say that the decision he made, and the reason he made for the decision – that now one has to go further because the lights are blinking red – was actually not right. I think one should be more concerned when politicians don't give the right opinion to people most, than when one has professionals who give a warning but to whom politicians have to act.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e854	I just notice that the Minister of Transport thinks it is important to spend time on vocabulary around a general expression that means that now all the lamps light red, and uses it as an argument to follow up what was solid, professional advice on taking measures to improve the Oslo air, in a situation where the entirely concrete air quality will of course vary over time. But here was the measure that was recommended, followed up, fortunately, and it will happen again. We also agree that it is the long-term measures that are most important. Then the question is: why does the government and the Minister of Transport now spend much longer than originally agreed, to facilitate environmentally-differentiated bombing, which will be a much better measure, in everyone's opinion, but which we are not now able to implement until 2018, because the Council of State has decided to spend so long to facilitate them?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e861	This round of questions seems to me to be characterized by many wrong premises, where one puts words in my mouth that I have not said, and then one criticizes me for it afterwards. When the City Councillor in Oslo is in the traffic centre and says that the lights are now flashing red, it is quite literally meant to be. He said that's why we're now moving on with the measures. That's when I pointed out to P4 – and I point this out here – that it was simply wrong. He could still say: I fear that it will get worse during the day, so we do it anyway. That would be right. Then he had made an assessment. But he gave a factual description that was not correct. Then I hear that a promises Oslopack 3. That's good. Today's government has ensured that there is more money in Oslopackak 3, not because Oslo kommune prioritises more, but because the state goes in with more money. I'm glad that the Oslo City Council is satisfied with that, but it's the government, the civil majority's policy, which makes that money lie there, not an Oslo bureau. With regard to measures that are beneficial: we ensure that this is as good progress as possible, but the Municipality of Oslo knows very well that it is a technical system to be rebuilt. There's nothing the Council of State does, it's something the Directorate of Road does, and they're going to do as soon as possible. But I can't spell what a computer engineer is doing in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e875	I would like to ask the Minister the following questions: ‘According to the Evening Item on 30 November 2016, a public acquisition seminar was held in the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries on the same day. There, Professors Soreide and Hjelmeng pointed to weaknesses in the Norwegian legislation on public procurement, related to lack of supervision and control of procurement. This week, the CEO of Hovland in «New Veier» pointed to the same in a chronicle in today's business. I would like to ask about the Council's assessments related to this. Will she follow up on the recordings she has received if she needs better control, and in that case when and how?"
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e884	As Minister of Industry, I am pleased that the theme of public acquisitions engages so many, simply because it is very important. The government is concerned with effective enforcement of procurement law, and the complaint subject of public acquisitions, KOFA, plays an important role here. The Stoltenberg Government has removed the competence of the denominator to impose an infringement fee for illegal direct acquisitions in 2012. Then, the enforcement of such serious offences — illegal direct acquisitions — also stopped. So the government has done something about this. With effect from 1 January of this year, KOFA was given the competence to impose an infringement fee for such infringements, and this means that suppliers can now choose whether to go to KOFA or to the courts if they wish to be penalised for illegal direct acquisitions. There is a significant strengthening of enforcement. In addition, we have the National Audit Office and the municipal audits, which control the government. We also have the EFTA Surveillance Authority ESA, which supervises our compliance with our EEA obligations, and also the EU Acquisitions Directive. There are therefore many bodies that already have an important role to play in controlling and enforcing compliance with procurement law. It is such that a new and revised legislation came into force at the turn of the year. There are many new rules and obligations that contracting entities and suppliers have to deal with, and many demanding assessments have to be made. That is why the Ministry of Food and Fisheries has given us a great deal of attention to good guidance on the new rules. It is the Directorate for Administration and ICT, Diffi, who is now continuously contributing to the building of public acquisition skills to help purchasers use resources efficiently and in line with public needs. One of the things the Committee on Simplification pointed out in its investigation is that there is considerable fear among contracting authorities of making mistakes, and some of the companies are also measured by whether they are complained to the KOFA. Of course, contracting entities will follow the legislation, but I am very concerned that they are making good purchases and exploiting the space for action that is, in order to obtain new and forward-looking innovative solutions and not least green acquisitions. I believe that this is not carried out with more supervision and control, but with the help of good training and guidance from our side in the new legislation, which is demanding, and we all know that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e897	Thanks for the answer. With regard to KOFA, there was a broad consensus here in the Stortingen to re-establish the fee authority of that body from 1 January of this year, but it does not cover what is requested here. As far as KOFA is concerned, complaints must be filed in order for them to address them, but this is a matter of oversight. The Swedes have put in place such a system and added it to the Competition Authority. We in the Labour Party have also not concluded on this, but we believe that all good measures that can contribute to labour crime, corruption and social dumping should be carefully considered. When Stortinget dealt with the new law last year, social dumping and social concerns were a central issue. In this context, I would like to refer to Section 6 of the new law, which states that the Ministry may require public purchasers to include clauses in procurement contracts that ensure pay and working conditions that are no worse than generalised collective agreements or country-wide collective agreements. What has the Council of State done about it in the regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e908	That's how this is a rule of chance. We are also committed to countering social dumping and, not least, crime in the world of work, and we have our own plan, developed together with the social partners, which we are following up on. As far as the new regulations are concerned, I am concerned that the room for action is used, and not least that we gain experience. I've had a meeting with the KS, I've invited them to keep us up-to-date with their experience of regulation and regulations. I'm going to write a letter to all public buyers, like I did in 2013, to inform you about the new legislation, to invite you to use the space for action, and not least to work against social dumping and the parts of the business that we want away from public acquisitions. I believe that we must now see how the new legislation works. I believe the answer is not to set up new bureaucratic bodies until we have had some thorough experience with the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e915	It is very important that the Council of State follows up here, as she is inside. This is something that Stortinget was also extremely concerned about, and we will therefore encourage the Council of State to look further at exactly what I was about in relation to Section 6 that there is an opportunity to impose this. Then we see in the fatherland friend of 26 January this year, in connection with tenders for the construction of new Varoddbru, that Amnesty says: ‘Now it is simply high time that the public tightens up and gets things taken care of.’ They indicate that two of the international companies that have submitted tenders on the bridge are large in countries that are notorious for lack of fundamental human rights. Does the Council of State need one to do something more through the regulation to prevent the public sector from entering into contracts with companies that do not respect central human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e929	It's like for the first time we've got a law where, in the introduction to the law, we assume that everyone has to have systems to deal with the risks of corruption and human rights, in the cases where there's a risk of this. This is also to be enforced by KOFA, so I believe we have gone much further than we have ever done to ensure that Norwegian contracting entities take this seriously, and that we have procedures to handle this in situations and cases where it is necessary. Of course, we're going to follow that up, and it's going to be exciting to see if there's any issues coming to the KOFA about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e937	‘The stock of yorks in Norway has increased from 269 animals to 306 from 2015 to 2016. In many parts of the country, you are the biggest pest on domestic animals. The increase is greatest in Hedmark, Trøndelag and Nordland. The stock of yerv is far above the stock target, and hunting for yerv has been a little successful in recent years. Only about one third of the allowances have been removed. What does the government think to do to get down to the goal of yours, and how long do you expect it to take?»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e944	It is quite right, as the representative of Odnes points out, that you are the greatest harmdoer of sheep and lambs in Norway. In 2016, the Yurven stood for 34 pst. of replaced losses, while the wolf for comparison stood for 9 pst. As a result of the 2011 agreement on predatory game, the management of your game will take place in such a way that the number of juveniles is kept as close to the stock target as possible. The same agreement says that licensing should be the main instrument in stock regulation of yours. The stock target for yews in Norway is 39 juvenile coal. In 2016, 50 young coals were registered by you, and there is a decrease of 15 young coals from 2015. Of the 50 young coals, seven were taken out of the State's natural custody in connection with hijacking. Thus, in 2016, four young coals are above the national stock target. Hedmark, Trøndelag and Nordland, to which the representative Odnes refers, were given priority in the spring of 2016. As a result, we are well below the stock target in Northern Ireland, just above the stock target in Trøndelag and Møre and Romsdal, and slightly above the target in Hedmark. If we look at the individual level, the population in 2016 is intended to consist of approx. 350 adult individuals. That's about the same number as in 2015. Since 2004, the herds in Norway have been above the agreed stock target. It has proved difficult, under changing governments, to get a sufficiently effective licensing of yours. This is due to the fact that the killing is demanding, for example: in mountain areas, it may be difficult for licensees to obtain. We're also talking about small populations, and it's hard to get to an administration that's right on the stock target. That is why this government has taken several measures to bring the population down to the stock target. We have a very high preparedness both before and during the grazing season to ensure that adopted withdrawals of wild game are carried out. These include: conducted quite extensive hijacking of yews in the direction of the State's natural supervision. In addition, this government has, to a greater extent than the previous government, opened the way for the withdrawal of predators which could constitute a risk of damage at the eve of the grazing season. Furthermore, from 2015, we have launched eight projects across the country, including Oppland, to test new tools to ensure more effective licensing. These projects will be completed in 2018, and my hope is that these projects will show that it is possible to achieve more efficient killing. We're also working on motivating hunters to participate in the licensing of yours. Overall, we hope and believe that these measures will bring us down to the stock target. But, as I said, it's hard to get to a government that's right on the stock target, but we've put in action measures that we hope will bring us there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e967	I don't hear as much about plans and activities as I already know. We're familiar with the fact that the license agreement works badly. In Uppland, including the Council of State, we are in a probationary period, which per day has taken out four of the twelve animals that are on the quota in Uppland. Now it is that two weeks of that licensing period, and in the robberies agreement from 2011, it is said that the licence quota will be withdrawn as far as possible during the quota period. This hasn't been followed up by the directorate, and where I think the council should be more on to make sure it's done. Does the Council intend to be able to impose more stringently on the Directorate to withdraw the licence quota during the period instead of the withdrawals, to which it is now added?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e974	I said in my post that we have a high level of readiness to ensure that the necessary withdrawals are actually implemented. We've tried to streamline the licensing process, and we've lowered the take-out threshold before the grazing season. Then we have these eight projects. They will end in 2018, and I think it is important to get these projects running, so that we get their results. Means tested in this context are the use of artificial light on keratosis and electronic monitoring of fishing booths. We have made changes to the motorcycling code that allows everyone to apply for permission for the transport of bait and keg booths, and to supervise your booths. I think we should look at the impact of these instruments before considering the need for new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e981	There is a lot of trust in the administration from the different parties. In grazing, many measures have been taken to help reduce losses. In Uppland had a steady loss figure for you of over three thousand animals in both 2014 and 2015, and then a down loss figure got something during 2016. The challenge is that grazing industries do their job, but they do not now feel that predator management is doing its part of the two-sided objective: to ensure that grazing is also subject to viable conditions. When one experiences that one has double population of the target that has been seen both in Uppland and in Hedmark on yours, this is imperative to defend. Don't the council have bigger ambitions than what you do today, to come up with new grips to secure stock extraction and reduction?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e988	So we've seen a drop in the number of juveniles. And – that is also important – although we have been above the agreed stock target since 2004, there is variation in efficiency. The trend is that licensing is not as effective as we want, but we have examples of quota being filled in parts of Uppland and Hedmark. We have a high level of preparedness both before and during the grazing season. The SNO, the State's nature agency, carries out an annual extensive harvesting of individual animals and the harvesting of you, and the fact that we have opened up more than the previous government to harvesting predators in front of the grazing season are measures that are new, in addition to these pilot projects we have. They hope and believe that together I will help bring us closer to the agreed stock target. There are measures that go far beyond what we have seen under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e996	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Climate and Environment: ‘In Meråker almost 500 sheep for predators were lost last summer. The municipality is a very active agricultural municipality with many grazing users. The grazing right in Meråker is special in the sense that each farm has purchased and paid its grazing right from among others. Meraker Bruk. This means that the right to graze is priced. What will the Council of State do to reduce predatory pressure in Meråker, and may it be appropriate to buy out the grazing rights purchased by users?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1006	This government is committed to pursuing a predatory policy that is in line with the Berne Convention, the Nature Diversity Act and the Robbery Agreement. The wild game agreement says how many young coals of predators we're going to have, and the administration is going to make sure that we're as close to that stock every year as possible. We have more than the previous government opened for the harvesting of predators that could be a risk of injury, prior to the grazing season. We have clearly informed the game management to have a high level of preparedness both before and during the grazing season in order to ensure the necessary withdrawals. We work – as I was concerned about in the previous question – to make the licensing of yours more effective. Meråker municipality is one of eight projects that have been given the green light to try out new instruments that can make licensing decisions more effective. Replacement statistics show that government policy is working. The number of livestock replaced by predatory game has been reduced in recent years and was historically low in 2016. Then there are also good financial arrangements in the forest game management. This applies both to the replacement of grazing animals for predatory game and to the addition of preventive and conflict mitigation measures. This is at the base of 220 million. kr annually and shall contribute to the achievement of the two-part objective of the predatory game policy. For farms where grazing rights form part of the resource base, that right will form part of the total value of the use, regardless of whether the value of the grazing rights is explicitly priced. Therefore, I cannot see that the situation for users in Meråker who have purchased their right of gravitation from Meraker. Use at the agreed price is fundamentally different from other uses with the associated grazing rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1021	I thank you for your answer. Governments are entitled to a reduction in the number of losses. One of the reasons why that's because a lot of people give up. As a result, no livestock will be lost either, because there will be no livestock left in many of the areas we are talking about here. And many of those who give up, in and of themselves, also give up a right to graze on their own farm – and get no compensation from the big community for it. The situation in Meråker, on the other hand, is that there are no farmers in Meråker who own grazing rights or forests. It's Meraker Use that owns the forest, and then it's the farmers who buy a grazing right from Meraker Bruk. Thus, the right to graze is priced in a completely different way from what you can do on a common farm. So we also know what the value of the right to graze is. The question is, if these farmers have to give up the right to graze because of the predatory problem, will the State contribute to buying out the grazing right?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1030	As I pointed out in my answer, the right to graze forms part of the total value of a use, no matter how the right to graze is organised. We're not going to buy grazing from sheep owners in predatory areas. On the other hand, what we can do, and do, is to provide support for conversion to other operations, if the animal owner wants it. Then we have several financial arrangements available to animal owners in areas of predatory game today – full compensation for grazing animals taken from predatory game and subsidies for preventive measures against predatory game damage. Ten million. kr is designated by this government for the operational conversion of sheep owners with permanent losses due to predatory game. It shows that today we have good financial arrangements for owners of grazing animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1037	I just have to point out that no, the grazing right in Meråker is not part of the farm, because the farmers in Meråker own no forest. Thus, they do not own the areas where they are used. They buy that grazing right from Meraker Bruk. So the right to graze is priced and can be bought out if the state wanted it. But I understand that it does not want the government to contribute to it. The Council of State mentions a number of other measures, including: more effective licensing and harm prevention measures in spring. Is it relevant to give the municipality of Meråker an opportunity to take the decision on the harmful fallowing of predators that are not to be in the grazing priority area of Meråker municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1044	Last year we received a request from the municipality of Meråker to try out new tools and answered it in a letter dated 27 October last year. The municipality has pointed to many possible measures. Some of the measures we believe are not advisable. This applies, for example: the extended period of limitation of the licence of bear. Other measures, such as the use of loose, on driven neck dog on bear, are a matter that has been investigated by research communities. The municipality also points to some administrative measures that are currently well taken care of by the Environment Directorate and by the SNO field apparatus. But we have also said that several of the measures are good, and have met the municipality. This applies to artificial light by attacking on yours and electronic warning using your booth. So Meråker Municipality is integrated into the trial project that is trying to create new tools. I believe that there is a package of instruments that will enable the killing to be made more effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1054	‘The Ministry of Climate and Environment decided in the autumn to close work on the establishment of a gene bank for wild species stocks in Hardanger, and the Environment Directorate has been asked to destroy the already collected genetic material. According to the Scientific Council for Salmon Management, several salmon populations in Hardanger are very poor, and any destruction of the genetic material will be very negative for the preservation of the wildax strain in Hardanger. What measures will the Council of State take to ensure the wild axis of Hardangerfjorden?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1061	The planned discard of salmonid fish stocks from Hardanger was mentioned in the budget proposal from the Ministry of Climate and Environment for 2017. Here we informed that new cost estimates show a cost increase of over 50 p.m., a total of 66 million. kr, and that on this basis the government decided not to build the bank. When the budget was handled by the Storting, no money was allocated to build the recycling bank. In 2015 and 2016, material was collected from the salmon fish stocks in Hardanger that could be relevant to a gene bank. As the gene bank is not intended to be built, operation at temporary storage facilities for this material will have to be phased out at some point. We are now assessing whether most of the material collected can be moved to storage at the research station at Ims in Rogaland. In that case, in two years we will have to re-examine what is going to happen to the material. Salmon fish stocks in Hardanger will continue to be covered by the rest of the work being done to preserve the wild species in Norway. It is important that we implement strict regulations in the fisheries sector. We spend a lot of resources fighting the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris and liming in acidified watercourses. The main influences on wild salmon populations today are salmonids and escaped farmed fish. There we have measures and instruments that are the responsibility of the Minister for Fisheries, but we have close dialogue on these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1072	I am glad that after this question was asked, we have been told that the Minister will open up a temporary arrangement of up to two years. That's good. But we want a firm, permanent arrangement for a gene bank that ensures the heritage of the wild axis of Hardanger. Then the minister realizes that this is also clearly a cost question. But with the mechanism proposed by the Minister now, will increased appropriations be available in the revised national budget, which will be presented in May?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1079	If we conclude that we are moving the material to storage at the research station, then we have two years to decide what will happen to the material. It therefore gives us more time than it will be necessary to return to the revised national budget. We have a good tradition here in the country for overruns in public buildings. We concluded that the overrun or the new estimate would be so costly that we could not prioritize it in the budget. There was also no room for it in the budget agreement, which resulted in significant increases in the budget of the Ministry of Climate and Environment. So in this game we've been content to evaluate a temporary solution for two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1084	This is a matter of great commitment around, and from the Workers' Party's side, we want a firm arrangement. This morning, a proposal from the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European The situation of the Atlantic wild species is critical, and this is one of the most important contributions Norway has to provide for natural diversity. One third of the Atlantic wild species is in Norway — this is an important responsibility for Norway. There are 22 watercourses in Hardanger, but we now see that the wild axis is about to disappear. It is now difficult to find salmon that do not have breeding genes, in Hardangerfjorden. So I finally wondered if the minister could say anything in general about the situation of the Atlantic wild species in Norway, and how the minister sees fit to strengthen the efforts to take care of this important genetic material.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1093	It is quite right, as the representative of Aukrust points out, that the situation of the Atlantic wild species is not good. We have carried out a comprehensive survey, and in the areas surveyed, the situation is unsatisfactory for many places. That is why we attach great importance to the introduction of the new traffic light system, which is intended to ensure that growth in the farming industry will only take place where it is sound and where it will not affect the possibilities and prevalence of the wild species. We also place great emphasis on the development of better farms, including closed plants, which could prevent the spread of lice. So this is an area where we attach great importance, and I have close dialogue with the Minister for Fisheries, who is responsible for many of the measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1098	Now we go to question 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1106	This question, from the representative of Stine Renate Håheim to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge, who has gone away.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1111	‘In the VG, we could read that 39,000 young people experience bullying at school. Still, we hear about young people who experience that the room to fit in is getting so narrow that they feel there is no room for them, and many fall out of school. Activity is good, and many times the best care you can give is to make clear demands. Presenting young people in need of Nav’s help as citizens-sucking slab bags is counterproductive and can contribute to legitimising the bullying of young people who are struggling. Do the Council of State agree to this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1118	In the student survey, which was conducted in the autumn of 2016 and presented last week, students are referred to a definition of what is considered to be bullying: ‘By bullying we mean repeated negative actions from one or more together, against a student who may have difficulty defending himself. Bullying can be to call another ugly thing and pea, to keep another outside, to talk or hit, to push or hold on." Describing young people in need of Nav's help as citizens-sucking slab bags is not nice. If such use is referred to repeatedly and to a person who may have difficulties in defending himself, it could also be considered to be bullying according to the definition used in the Student Survey. The government is committed to combating bullying in all areas of society, whether it affects school students or young people who need help from Nav. Bullying is harmful and has to be controlled. This is why the government is now implementing a number of measures to prevent bullying in schools and kindergartens. One of the most important measures is to strengthen adult competence in this area. It's about both preventing, detecting and solving concrete bullying. In addition, school has challenges with adults bullying students. Through the student survey, 1.8 pst of the students say that they are bullied by teachers or other adults at school. The study reveals that the adult may have spoken hurtful words about the student, the student’s joints in a painful way, caused other students to laugh at the student, or caused the adult to feel outside. The critical statement that the representative Håheim refers to in his question has many common features with these forms of adult bullying. It is totally unacceptable that adults bully school students, and it is equally unacceptable when other adults come with hurtful and degrading descriptions of young people who need help from Nav. The government has a zero in terms of bullying, that's all we can have. If we succeed in this work in kindergartens and at school, we can hope that getting out of work affects people's attitudes to bullying. I will also explain the government's action against bullying in the answer to question 17 later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1138	Thanks – I think that was a good answer, very clear. The council had in mind that if it were to be bullying, it must be repeated, but there is no doubt that this advertisement has been spread repeatedly. This ad has seen these young people who are struggling, many times. There is probably no doubt about it, and then in many ways the paradox – since the government speaks on behalf of the government – is that there is a government party behind this talk of a group of young people who rely on the help of the big community, help that the government in many ways has not been able to give these young people enough, because these young people may have been bullied, exposed to things, have not felt at home in the school environment, and then they become outlawed, they fall out, and then they get no job. Then my question is: Does the Council of State think that parties who sit in government, who govern, and who are responsible, have a special responsibility for how to talk about youth in our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1145	I believe that all adults, responsible people have a responsibility for how to talk about other people, not least children and young people. I also believe that parties in government have a special responsibility to assess messages and signalling. The context in which a message is given will also indicate whether this is bullying or not. I will not comment on the matter in question. But it is important that we, as government officials or representatives of parties who sit in government, or for the part that sits in the Storting, take responsibility for not contributing to the use of languages that can be, or that can be understood as bullying.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1152	Thanks for the answer. Some of the young people involved have gone out and taken quite a stand. One of them was Sebastian Hens Gansmoe, who on January 12th this year to the NRK said the following about the message from the Progress Party: ‘The message they send is that young people who go to NAV are late bags that don’t even get to eat up their burger until it’s time for a dinner nap. I find myself in a lot, but to be presented like this, to be bullied by Frp, to be told that they despise me in this way, I do not accept f***." The people out there see this as very offensive. It is quite serious, from a party that sits in government, and that sits in government with the Party of Saints. So my last question to the Council of State is: Has the Council of State taken this up with its government colleagues in the Progress Party and placed the responsibility where it belongs, because it's quiet to accept bullying?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1162	I have not taken this up, but I can assure the representative of Håheim that the government's policy is that Nav should be a help to get young people into business. It's going to be a help to stand on your own, it's going to be a help to get self-confidence in life, so you can handle yourself. The initiatives taken by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs are important. This also applies to measures in the field of bullying, which is located in her area. So the government's policy, the government's attitude and the government's message here is no doubt. We don't accept bullying. We believe bullying is harmful and must be combated. And we believe that young people, whether in school or in Nav, should be treated with respect and given the help they need to stand on their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1170	This question, from the representative of Marianne Aasen to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1175	‘To feel useless and feel that society doesn’t need you is a situation no one should have to experience. Youth without education is more likely to be unemployed for longer periods of life than others. Now youth unemployment is on record 11 pst. Nevertheless, the government will not invest in more than one study area needed by both youth and society. Why not?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1182	Formal competence is an important entrance ticket to today's work. Young people without education therefore have increasing difficulties in getting a job. Since 2014, the government and the cooperation parties at Stortinget have increased the capacity to record, and this is a fully-fledged 8150 new places of study. These places of study are a priority for education where the Central Statistical Office sees a future need. This applies in particular to health, learning, real science, technology and ICT. There are now more students in Norwegian higher education than ever before, with a total of 269,000. Education services are varied, flexible and well developed in all parts of the country. There is slightly greater competition for the study places now than in previous years. I believe that increased competition can help to increase the quality of higher education and to motivate more people to step up their efforts to study and to implement it. The figures from the Coordinate Recording show that every year there is a study offer that has vacancies. If young people are motivated to study and are willing to move, they have good opportunities to start an offer in higher education. I don't think any more higher education places are the most important priority now to get more young people out of unemployment. It is far more important that more young people actually complete the education they start. The SSB projections show that we especially need more skilled workers. Unfortunately, many young people do not complete their vocational or vocational training. These thus experience difficulties in entering the labour market. In order to contribute to the completion of a peer-reviewed letter, the government has taken a number of measures to contribute to improving quality and increasing the number of apprenticeships. These measures include increased apprenticeship grants, the apprenticeship clause and further training of vocational teachers. The government has also provided key messages to strengthen quality and implementation both in vocational schools and in higher education. Good guidance on counselling and career guidance is necessary for young people in vocational, vocational and higher education. This helps young people to make choices that best match their own interests and the needs of their working life. In cooperation between the labour market and the authorities, a national strategy on competence policy is therefore put forward in order to contribute to good access to skilled labour in Norway. Young people without work or education are an important area of government activity in 2017. It's set at 30 million. kr to a nationwide youth effort under the auspices of the State of Labour and Welfare. Individually adapted follow-up should prevent young people from becoming passive, motivated by job search, giving increased jobseeker competence and quickly getting unemployed into work, education or other activity. Several higher education places can be one way of reducing the number of young people unemployed. At the same time, it is important to increase the quality and to strengthen the implementation of education, to follow up on vulnerable young people through labour and welfare initiatives and to facilitate business-oriented measures that can create more jobs. It is the sum of the many measures that will reduce the number of young people out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1199	Thank you for your answer, especially given that the Council of State responds on behalf of a colleague. I want to inform you about the following: There have never been as many people who have been qualified for higher education that did not fit, and who were rejected, as at the time of the recording in the autumn we have behind us. I would also like to remind you that the government has barely proposed a single new place of study. The study places referred to here have come after negotiations in Stortinget. So this is not a priority for the government, unlike the Workers' Party, which has put 3,000 new places of study each year into our alternative budget. It is quite right that non-response is a major problem, both in professional and higher education. Then it is disappointing to see that the problem is not addressed much more in the big message that was presented last Friday, where quality in higher education is the topic. We need more people taking education, we need fewer unskilled, we need more up-to-date skills, and we need fewer out-of-date skills. Do the Councils agree to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1208	I very much agree that we need more education, and it's not least that more people have to complete their education, whether it's vocational or higher education. We do not believe that study places and the establishment of study places are something to be used as a conversion tool when there are fluctuations in the labour market. The solution lies primarily in the success of labour market transition. The policy of conversion to this government is very active. Together with the cooperation parties, we have contributed with several places of study in recent years. Among other things, we have priority funding for research, resources and more recruitment means, and it is important to provide a basis for high quality training provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1215	Conversion is important. I fully agree with the Council of State in that, especially in a situation where technological progress is very rapid, and that it is actually a digital revolution we see around us. Prime Minister Erna Solberg wrote about this in his blog now in January and referred to three actions. The first measure was that everyone should have access to competence throughout their life. We therefore agree that accommodating skills is absolutely essential if we are to cope with this transition. There are an incredible number of warnings from the ICT community in Norway that there is a critical shortage of labour in technology, and this has been said for many years. However, there have been hardly any more places of study in this respect. According to the OECD, Norway is one of the countries with the lowest number of people in higher education with a ICT background, and we are almost the worst out of all OECD countries in terms of further development. Isn't this especially an area where we should create far more places to study than what we see from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1224	We see absolutely a need for ICT specialists, and we know that this is an area of need for investment. That is precisely why, most recently in the autumn of the budget, we have allocated funds to 500 new ICT places of study. So we're going to gradually get more educated ICT specialists. In addition, we see that several newly educated civil engineers are applying for ICT-related professions. But we also have numbers from Nav that indicate that we have had some unemployment in recent years for ICT-trained people due to the shift in the oil sector. We will consider stimulating more ICT universities if they do not meet long-term needs. We work in this context to make good analyses of future skills needs, where we, among other things, work. facilitates national meeting places between providers and demandors, as mentioned in the Quality Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1235	This question, from the representative Christian Thinning Bjørnø to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge, who has gone away.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1240	‘According to the 2016 student survey, almost 40,000 children and young people report being bullied. In 2013, the government put down the Djupedal Committee. Nearly two years ago, the sample delivered about 100 suggestions on how to combat bullying in school. Few measures have been implemented, except that a legislative change has been notified and a web portal has been launched. Why does the Council of State spend so long implementing new measures to combat bullying in school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1247	In April 2016, the government launched its main measures to prevent and combat bullying, and we prioritised three main areas as the most important: Firstly, to strengthen skills locally, so that school and kindergarten employees have a better basis for preventing and managing bullying. Secondly, to improve the law, so that the bullying can be solved better and faster. And third, better support and guidance for mob victims and their families. This is in line with recommendations from the Djupedal Committee. On the same day that the investigation was handed over, we made it clear that kindergartens should also be part of the government's follow-up. Efforts to combat bullying must include all children and young people, but must start with the youngest. It is therefore not true that the government has spent too long on this work, nor is it right that the government has implemented only a few measures. It is important that we have a thorough process linked to the new laws, but that is not an obstacle to us making other proposals, and so have we. We have developed a separate competence package that was used by schools, kindergartens and municipalities in the autumn of last year. That package is designed to take into account the different situations of schools, kindergartens and municipalities in terms of the scale of bullying. Many schools have worked systematically for many years on these challenges and have little bullying among their students. Other schools are struggling with high bullying rates and have been in that situation for many years. That's the last group we give the highest priority in the competence exercise. They receive support and guidance earlier than others, and they receive more support. However, all schools and kindergartens should have the opportunity to strengthen their own competences. Through the state budgets for 2016 and 2017, we have significantly strengthened our efforts to combat bullying. For many years, the level of the bullying was at the lower edge of 30 million. kr. In two years that appropriation has more than doubled, to 75 million. kr In addition to the competence effort, through the 2017 budget, we have strengthened the capacity of the Children’s Ombudsman to help bully victims and their families. We have also ensured that the county officials have increased the capacity to take away the bullying cases, and we launched the zero-mobbing.no website in August 2016. It is a website that collects information that mob victims and their families need, not least about rights and how concrete bullying can be handled. In addition, the government has launched several other measures, such as new criteria for the bullying programmes, we have ensured that digital bullying is part of all measures implemented, and established a new Partnership against bullying involving all key actors in Barnehage and School Norway. In addition, I would like to mention the commitment of health sisters in school, that lifelong learning should become a cross-disciplinary subject and that the health plan of young people has come from the Ministry of Health. The government’s proposal to improve the training law has been consulted, and a slightly adjusted proposal is presented in a short time to the Stortinget with a view to its entry into force from the 2017–2018 school year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1268	There are 100 proposals for measures that were handed over two years ago, and there is a handful of them under investigation. It's not good enough for us or for the almost 40,000 students who are being bullied. Think about what it does to you as a person to be exposed to regular bullying? Think what does it mean for learning? The government is too passive, and they don't blink with what they do. The legislative changes that have been sent to the hearing have received massive criticism because it does not put children in the centre. The government parties voted against the Workers' Party's 25 proposals in the Stortinget for actions from the Djupedal Committee that could be implemented quickly, and we did not agree to set aside 100 million. kr in the budget for the fight against bullying. Now the government also gets criticism from the Young Right, Christian People's Party and Left for Sommel. Is the Council of State really satisfied with the results of the government so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1277	When we have a zero vision against bullying, we can't be satisfied until we see that zero vision realized. As long as the kids are bullying, we can't be satisfied, but we're working on thoroughness and systematics to get systems, structures and tools in place to deal with the bullying problem. We haven't spent too long. We have been working actively on these measures since the investigation was presented, and we even made it clear that it was so urgent to get the investigation out that the investigation was delivered before originally planned. Then we have had a comprehensive consultation round that gave very important input and presented the action plan last year, and we have launched a number of actions in the follow-up to it, and several of them I mentioned in the post.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1282	Let me take a concrete measure that the Council of State did not mention. Some municipalities have been involved in the attempted preparedness teams against bullying. There have been attempts with great luck and where there have been good experiences. Will the government ensure that preparedness teams against bullying are an action that can quickly become a national system that exists in all the municipalities of the country and not just in a few, so that more students can be seen, heard and get help in difficult bullying?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1289	I think it's very important that we give the schools and municipalities tools they can use, but that it also has to be so that the use of tools adapts locally. That is why we have put forward a number of measures that will make it possible to strengthen efforts. We are strengthening efforts for a good care and learning environment in kindergartens. We make the framework for kindergartens clearer on what factors are needed to create a good care and learning environment. We are continuing the financial support for the bullying programmes at school, but with new criteria for this support. We have made it clear that we need to have digital bullying, hidden bullying and the relationship between bullying and students' mental health into the programmes – also in line with the Djupedal Committee. We've funded 150 new psychologists, given 100 million. SEK to new health sisters in the municipalities – it also has a close connection with the work against bullying – and then we have set aside 80 million. kr in searchable means of competence for kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1297	This question, from the representative of Audun Otterstad, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister for Knowledge, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1302	‘TV 2 has recently had several cases of Norwegian youth who have had unpleasant and sometimes frightening experiences during exchanges in the United States. Youths feel powerless and lack closer follow-up and increased security for those leaving. This is particularly important as it concerns children under the age of authority. Norway is a small country, and we are totally dependent on going out and connecting. What will the Council of State do to ensure a good stay in exchange for Norwegian youth travelling?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1309	I am concerned that the students on exchange abroad have a good study stay, both professionally and socially. The conditions for the recognition of training support exchange organisations provide, inter alia, for exchange organisations. responsibility for the placement of students in appropriate host families and for a local contact person in the country of study to assist the student with practical solutions to problems. Procedures for handling difficult issues are also required. The parents and the student shall be informed of these procedures prior to the study. I would like to emphasise that under the applicable legislation, the approval as an exchange organisation may be withdrawn if the conditions for approval no longer exist. The approval shall be valid for only three years at a time and, in the case of continuation of approval, all conditions shall be reviewed. Both the individual cases and the user survey conducted by the Education Internationalisation Centre (SIU) among students may provide the basis for studies on whether the conditions are still met. The vast majority of students who travel on exchange have good experience. The cases from TV 2, along with other examples I am familiar with through the user survey SIU conducted among exchange students in 2016, show that there are some issues where the routines fail. The result is very serious for the students affected. Therefore, we will consider whether the rules on recognition for the support of exchange organisations can be improved. In addition, we will look at whether increased supervision and control of organisations can be an appropriate tool for all students receiving support from the Loan Fund for exchange purposes to have a good study stay abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1318	I am glad that the government acknowledges that this is a problem and will now answer. And then I think it's good to see – and hear – that TV 2 has got the same speech points as the Council of State. But both for TV 2 today and here in Stortinget, representatives of the government say that this has been known through user studies. And then the Centers for Internationalization answer that they consider the companies based on feedback they themselves give, and they admit to TV 2 that they have not received this amount of critical comments from the companies themselves. And then my question is, How long has the Council of State known about these problems, and why hasn't anything been done before TV 2 started digging into this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1323	This is a problem which, of course, we know through single examples and also primarily through the study from SIU, which demonstrates that this is a challenge. And that is the basis for the ministry to assess whether increased supervision and control of organisations can provide better assurance that students will be well cared for while abroad. So the rules and requirements for the routines we have in place today are not enough to avoid that there are too many students today who feel that they are not being properly cared for, for example. have problems with the host family, and we will therefore assess whether we should have increased supervision and control.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1328	The council does not answer my question here, how long have you known about this, and whether you knew about it before TV 2 revealed it. If you knew about this long before TV 2 explained the matter, it is quite serious that you have not done anything about it. So there's also another question that's a little interesting, and that's why the government says they're going to consider -- why won't they change, when the government's now standing here saying that the contact network for students who are on exchange abroad is not enough, is it not good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1335	What I underlined is that in the light of the examples that have been presented, and the SIU's report, which came last year, we will assess whether increased supervision and control can provide better protection. There's one thing we'll consider. What we will also consider is whether further clarification of the legislation on approval and withdrawal of approval can contribute to this. So there's several things we should look at here, and that's also why I use the term "appraise". We assess several things, and we will then come back when we have concluded in that assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1340	Then we go back to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1348	‘Closed prisons have few people in small places with close contact. Violence and threats have increased dramatically. Many prisoners have been in other countries before they are imprisoned. The risk of their transmission is present. We also have infectious diseases with high infectious potential, which often affect addicts. Many are imprisoned immediately after apprehension. The risk of infection relates to prisoners and employees. What procedures are available for the screening of prisoners, how fast, who may be screened, and what are they screened for today?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1355	The work on the protection of infectious diseases shall be carried out in accordance with the Code on the Protection of Infections and Diseases. Chapter 7 of the IPD covers, inter alia: tasks of the local and local authorities. It states that the municipality doctor shall ‘have a continuous overview of the epidemiological infectious conditions in the municipality’, ‘form proposals for preventive measures for the municipality’ and ‘assistance to the municipality, health professionals and others in the municipality who have tasks in the field of protection against infectious diseases’. Under the Public Health Act, prisons are to be planned, operated and closed in order to prevent infectious diseases. Similarly, accidents and injuries are prevented. The municipality is a supervisory authority. Prisoners in Norwegian prisons are entitled to equivalent health services to those of the rest of the population as far as possible in relation to the implementation of penalties, according to the Health Directorate’s counsellor, Health and care services for prisoners in prison. The European prison rules point 40.3 states: «Inhabitants shall have access to the health services available in the country on a non-discriminatory basis on the basis of their legal status.» It is recommended that an income call be made within a short period of time after insertion by the supervisor. In the event of insertion, any medical use must be immediately monitored. Detailed examination and interview with the prisoner should be conducted within 24 hours. Informed consent must be provided. Derogations are those cases where enforcement measures are to be taken under Chapter 5 of the Code. Health and care services in prison are to monitor, identify and initiate the necessary treatment. Guidance and information to prisoners will be an important part of the prevention work. Testing for blood infectious diseases such as hepatitis B and C and HIV and sexually transmitted diseases should be provided. There is no routine screening of prisoners, with the exception of screening for tuberculosis by those required under the Tuberculosis Regulation – asylum seekers and persons from high-denemical countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1373	Thank you for a thorough answer. I'm glad that the Council of State is withdrawing the general health status of prisoners in prisons, because what we know is that 10 pst. has a minor mental retardation, 60-80 pst. have drug problems and 90 pst. have one or more psychiatric diagnoses. For these, the government has now cut 40 million. kr in operating grants, and the working party has compensated for this and increased the appropriations during this government period. Female prisoners are seriously traumatized and the zones are often long-term judges. When it comes to excluding these women from the possibility of trauma treatment for the normal population, does the Minister believe that it is in line with the normality requirement that applies and that the Minister himself pointed out – that everyone should have the right to an equivalent non-discriminatory relationship? Can the Minister of Health tell what he will do to ensure equal access to the necessary health services for women who are zoned and traumatised?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1380	It's like the prisoners in prison, as I said in my first answer, are entitled to the same health services as the population else, unless the criminal execution is a hindrance to it. This means that women in prison who are in need of trauma treatment should also receive it either from the municipal health service, if sufficient, or be referred to for assistance from the specialist health service. The health service has a responsibility to provide help. In addition, specific services are organised slightly different in different prisons, but the general rule is that health care should be provided by the regular health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1385	That answer delights me. Then I expect this to be sorted out with trauma treatment for women in Bredtveit prison. It's a great guarantee given by the Minister of Health. As a result of government policy, the University Hospital in Stavanger will have to cut 9.3 million. Dr, and that means that in Stavanger prison, the fight against drug addiction is threatened with closure. What will the Council of State do to meet the requirements of the normality principle in Norwegian prisons? And what will he do specifically to ensure that the 14 places in the Russstring unit in Stavanger do not disappear as a result of this government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1392	In that case from Stavanger, there is probably a slightly different view of the offer to be made. Health Stavanger has argued that they want to offer health care, but only in a different way than what has been done in the past, as there has been a separate psychologist in this offer. Of course, we will consider what is the reason for Health Stavanger and what conditions under which the assessment they have made is. But it is not Health Stavanger who has decided to put this unit down, and Health Stavanger has a responsibility to deal with the health professionals that are needed to provide the prisoners with adequate health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1400	‘Since 2005, four national supervision services for people with developmental disabilities have been carried out. Each year, the Health Authority publishes reports from some incident-based surveillance. Every year, a large majority of the inspections have revealed illegalities. Do the Councils see the possibility of strengthening legislation, the role of the Health Authority or the supervisory system in order to improve legal certainty and the living conditions of people with developmental disabilities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1407	I share the representative's concern. It is very serious that criminal offences are detected against people with mental retardation. At the same time, such results show that supervision is important and necessary. It is the municipality that is responsible for providing necessary and sound services. Local authorities are obliged to establish internal control systems and to ensure that the activities and services are planned, carried out and maintained in accordance with legal and regulatory requirements. Good governance and management are crucial to improving services that are not good enough. That is why we have now established a new regulation on management and quality improvement in healthcare, which came into force on 1 January 2017. The Regulation clearly states that the top management is responsible for the establishment and systematic management of the business. The Regulation is clear as to the tasks involved in planning, implementing, evaluating and correcting the service. The regulation also expands the requirement for systematic work on quality improvement and patient safety, including: an annual review of available knowledge of own service, e.g. supervisory material. A research project is under way by the State’s health surveillance to examine the impact of planned supervision in healthcare and to study the relationship between supervision, organisational changes and quality of service. The project shall include, inter alia: explore how managers and health professionals experience supervision in order to better understand mechanisms for change. We have also appointed a legal committee to review the rules on the use of coercion in healthcare. The mandate also includes mentally retarded persons with developmental disabilities. The Committee shall review current legislation and propose amendments to meet the needs of today’s and tomorrow’s services. The new legislation shall support the objective of creating the patient’s healthcare. The adjustment shall be delivered by 1 September 2018. There are also members who have experience in this area. The public inquiry On the same line – NOO 2016:17 – was sent to a hearing on the deadline of 2 March this year. The committee has surveyed the living conditions of people with developmental disabilities and the mandate has been very extensive. Much has improved in the last 20 years with regard to the living conditions of people with developmental disabilities. At the same time, we see that there are challenges that we need to take on more seriously. The selection has assessed actions in several areas, including: self-determination, legal certainty and good health and care services. The government will come back to how the proposals can be followed up when the consultation round is closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1422	Thank you for a good and complementary response from the Council of State. I think I share most of the reality, but maybe not the last, the fact that it's gotten better in the last 20 years -- I'm a little uncertain about that. But you can drill it a little bit more. Oversight in this area is relatively low. There is little supervision, and probably more supervision is required from many. I'm glad you need to look at just these contexts. I also believe that the area of supervision, armpits, is limited, because the law requires a high level of emphasis on municipal autonomy. So my question in the follow-up to this is simply: is it the concern of the municipalities and others that should weigh more heavily – or what should weigh more heavily on these matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1429	There are health requirements and the consideration of the individual who must weigh more heavily, but with the model we have chosen in Norway, that it is the municipalities that have the executive responsibility for a number of these services, the municipal self-government must also be given priority, the municipality's ability to choose to organise services differently as long as they provide a good professional offer. Then we see that there are great variations between the municipalities in this area, as there are in very many other areas. We are now also working on establishing a municipal quality register, just to gain more knowledge of this variation and insight into intermunicipal variation. We also have the follow-up to the Arianson Committee, which has looked at supervision, patient safety and legal certainty in this regard. In the spring we will come back to the Storting with the follow-up of the sample work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1434	I am very pleased that the Council of State says ‘a good professional offer’, for what is really happening today is that what is lawful is not necessarily a good offer out there. I guess you also see very much that there are little individualized offers. There's a lot of general, collective offerings, for example. in the care services and elsewhere, which allows some to receive a relatively frightful offer. So the question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State see that a lawful and professionally sound offer is not necessarily a good offer, and does it not necessarily provide good living conditions for the individual?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1439	That's a very big question the representative is dealing with now. The review of the Ida case, which was mentioned in Stavanger Aftenblad, has revealed that in cases where there has been extensive supervision and control, where the stamp of approval has been given, however, with a new approach, new knowledge and new insight, and by looking at the contexts, it is clear that the offer on which an approved stamp was put was, in reality, contrary to the law and the intention of the law. So it's a question of methods that are applied to supervision, if they properly uncover this, which we have to take over. There is no doubt that there is also reason to question how this is actually perceived for users and their relatives in their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1447	‘We are constantly hearing about young people who feel that the pressure to be ‘perfect’ is too great. In too many, this develops into mental problems that affect both the quality of life and the ability to pursue higher and higher education. Having easy and quick access to help is an important step towards remedying these developments. Nevertheless, the government against the Workers' Party is proposing to grant 100 million. SEK 200 million for lowthreshold help services in municipalities. SEK for the school health service. Why is that?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1454	I am pleased that the Workers' Party has finally woken up to the challenges related to the mental health of children and young people. It was a shame they didn't have the same commitment when they had the opportunity to do something about it. In fact, the government and the cooperation parties have strengthened this service by nearly 1 billion. kr during the four years that we have been responsible for the budget, and therefore there has been no need to vote for the Workers' Party's labelling proposals. A recent report from SINTEF shows that from 2008 the provision in the municipalities was weakened in both mental health and drug use. Fortunately, we have managed to reverse this trend. Now we see a strong growth in the offer, and for the first time we see that we have started to resume the pursuit that we inherited from the years with the Workers' Party in government. Being young is no diagnosis, but it's a great job to be young and grow up. According to the Young Data Survey, most young people report having good health and that they thrive in their lives. But for those who are struggling, it is important to have an easily accessible health service. I think everyone can agree on that. In June, we presented the Youth Health Strategy, one of the objectives of which is to facilitate better access to low-threshold healthcare. Now we are also working on our own mental health strategy, where children and young people need special attention. The strategy shall, as planned, be submitted before summer. An important theme will be early detection and coordination and follow-up of children and young people facing health challenges. Over the course of several years, we have allocated funds to build up and strengthen health and school health services, both through increased funding in the municipal framework and through earmarked grant schemes. By adding a significant share of the funds to strengthen health and school health services in the framework, we also give a very clear signal to municipalities, while there is an unbureaucratic system. We see that the municipalities have now really begun to give priority to this service. The earmarked funds put in place benefit the municipalities that also use the free resources and show that the reward scheme, as it actually is, also has an effect. We believe that this combination is now producing results, and we see, as it were, that from 2015 to 2016, the annual works within this offer increased more than population development, and that means that we have started to resume the process that we inherited from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1469	A legacy that has been inherited from the Workers’ Party – it is also a way to characterise major societal challenges. It's probably a pleasant thing to do when you have to make accounts from the day you entered the Council of State — and maybe you step out of it once. I would like to ask the Council of State to describe the low threshold of assistance in the municipalities and what strengthening of the school health service he refers to, when he says that this has been spent 1 billion. kr on the page you entered the government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1476	Read only the SINTEF report mentioned and read the annual COSTRA figures on the number of annual works. We took over in a situation where the years of school health and health services had in fact fallen. We were able to reverse that trend, and the growth has now increased. That's what the money's going to do. Money is a result. In addition, we have strengthened and developed the grant scheme to employ more psychologists in municipalities, from 130 grants to more than 400 grants now. The Norwegian Psychological Association is very clear that this produces results. And we have made proposals to legislate for psychological competence in municipalities from 2020, which the Labour Party voted against when we dealt with the primary health notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1483	I'm recording that the Council of State doesn't respond to where he's got the billion from. To refer to the increases in municipal appropriations and examples of local authorities taking responsibility for this is not a proper representation of the reality. The SINTEF report shows a trend in the number of annual works. It doesn't show an extra effort from the government. The arrangements to which the Council of State refers have been supported, and there has been a majority for them in the Grand Duchy. But why is it that the Council of State does not want to participate in the development of new low-threshold offers? For example, the Labour Party has: proposed free of charge permanent traineeships up to the age of 18. We have also proposed a strengthening of the school health service, which is earmarked. The figures reported by the school health services themselves do not show the strength of the state council taking on the coat and showing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1490	The numbers speak for themselves. One billion has been taken from the state budgets. It is not taken from the budgets of the municipalities, it is what the Stortinget and the government have granted for this investment. It is a bet that the Workers' Party tried to judge north and down and say that it was not going to give results. Now we have a SINTEF report that shows that the bet has produced results – results that must be quite unpleasant to the Workers' Party, given that they themselves were held responsible in a situation where this offer was built into the municipalities. Now it's being built up, and it's being built faster than population development. That means that we take again the aftermath that we inherited from the Workers' Party. Lowthreshold services are established in schools in the form of school health services, health centres, available services for psychologists in municipalities. There's a completely different rate of this now, and I'm glad that the Workers' Party shares the commitment. It's a shame it took so long to wake up, and you didn't do anything about it when you had the opportunity to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1498	‘Interim efforts are essential to avoid growing health challenges to major problems that are far more difficult to deal with. Free on-calls for young people up to 18 years of age will help more people seek help early. Researchers at the UiO have found that the elimination of excess weight for 12 to 15-year-olds increased the number of registered medical visits by approx. 13 pst. for boys and 18 pst. for girls. Will the State Council consider removing the proportion of all under 18-year-olds in the district council, in order to lower the threshold for young people to seek help?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1505	A good childhood lasts life. This is why early efforts are important and therefore what the government prioritises very high in many areas, both in health, in education and in child protection. Your health from childhood often lasts for life. Therefore, good health care for children and young people is important, and it is important to capture children and young people with early health challenges. We put forward a youth health strategy last year. The aim of the strategy is to help young people master their own challenges and live a good life. Key services for this group are health promotion and prevention services, such as early interventions carried out through, among others. health centre and school health services and mental health services for children and young people. This is what young people themselves have wanted, and that is also what we prioritise in the budgets. Over the years, the government has allocated funds to build up and strengthen this service, both through increased resources in the local community framework and through earmarked grant schemes now in excess of 200 million. kr, a total bet of 1 billion. kr, as I said earlier. The health centre and the school health service are very upswing in the population, have great confidence and are easily accessible to all children and young people when they are present. The government will also impose demands on all municipalities to have psychological competence in the service, and we have allocated considerable resources to recruit psychologists in the municipalities in the last two years. The fixed medical device is also well wound up. About 99 pst. the population is on the list of permanent staff. The government's aim is to ensure a good health supply by keeping excesses at a low level. Increases in equity and equity participation have therefore been around the level of price growth in recent years, except that we have now achieved a significant reduction in equity participation 2, which is important not least for the chronicler group. I am pleased that this year we have increased the age limit for the payment of accruals, which are part of the self-proprietary 2 scheme, from 12 years to 16 years. There has been a clear unfair treatment, because those with the greatest need for health care have had to pay a proportion of the costs, while those with the less need for health care have received free health care. Now we have a harmonisation of age limits. I would remind you that the Workers' Party was against this. With the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, chroniclery with high health needs would still have had to pay indebtedness until they were 16 years old, and not only would they still have had to pay indebtedness, but also a higher excess than what was when this scheme was terminated.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1520	It is true that the Workers' Party rejected the idea of the government, at least initially, that people with some quite serious conditions, such as fire damage and a lot of other conditions, would get several thousand dollars in the overnight application of their peculiarities, because the government proposed to remove the so-called disease list in terms of physiotherapy. That is why we have asked for this to be re-examined and for a new proposal to be made quickly. In a short transitional period, the description to the Council of State is precise, otherwise it is not. I record that the government has been willing to do more in part quite extensive work on the probabilities and rates and the conversion of different arrangements during this period. In the case of a simple, reasonable proposal that would help more young people in need of medical care in the municipalities, the Council of State does not answer the question. That's why I want to repeat it: will the government consider introducing free regulars, without any proportion, for young people up to the age of 18?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1527	We continuously assess both the level and the extent of the excess, and we also need to assess the proportion of the excess for young people aged over 16. But it is also the case that the greatest injustice in this area has been that while one in that age group could go to the firm without self-esteem, those young people who have the greatest health challenges have had to pay significant self-esteem. Then we have given priority to doing something for them with the greatest needs first, to raise the age limit of propensities to 16 years, so that's equal. I record that the Workers' Party had all the opportunities to do this priority in its alternative state budget, but did not choose to do so. Instead, the Workers’ Party chose to reinforce the difference that exists, making it worse for those with the greatest health challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1532	When you hear the Minister of Health, who is the Vice-Chairman of the Right, talk about priorities in the State budget, you should listen carefully. The main priority of today's government has been to cut taxes by over 20,000 million. kr. Then it's quite funny to imagine that it's not those who have received these tax cuts, who have been given the greatest relief, and who have changed the self-employment system over a very short period of time, and where people who have quite serious conditions and need long-term physical therapy are the ones who have to pay for them – in all modesty – the very small amounts that have gone to adjust the other self-esteem limits. I maintain that the Labour Party will give priority to this. We're also going to look at the devices in all the other areas when we access the government offices, but I'm also going to encourage today's government to reconsider if not free permanent staff can be a system that they can support.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1537	One should listen carefully when the Workers' Party starts talking about fiscal policy, because it does so largely when they have come to the defensive and are unable to defend their own policies, either in the field of health, school or child protection or in other important social areas. When the Labour Party no longer manages to defend its policy, the answer is again: fiscal policy. It's completely wrong, what the representative says, that the main priority for this government has been tax relief. That's not right. The main priority of this government has been to strengthen the welfare areas, not least the municipality's economy. Strengthening education and health has been both because it is what ensures the most well-being and because it is what contributes best to social cohesion. That's why the government has prioritised this. We have been able to raise school knowledge, reduce health cows, but at the same time provide the necessary tax relief to contribute to new growth and value creation in the country, which ensures the well-being of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1547	‘Interim efforts are about making it easy and safe to seek help when you need it. Klara Klock has been the only free offer for young people and young adults aged 10–25 to seek information and guidance on the themes of body and health, emotions, drugs and sexuality. The proposal to close the successful offer in Bodø is being met with great concern. Will the Council consider maintaining the good low threshold offered by the Klara Clock telephone and network service for young people?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1554	There is broad political agreement on the importance of having a low threshold of healthcare provision for children and young people and their families. For children and young people, who increasingly use digital and electronic media, access to low-threshold digital services is particularly important. The Government therefore wants to coordinate and further develop the digital health information provision for young people. We want to offer young people one door to public information services, where anonymous health questions can be answered across the same platform as questions of love and school choice and other important questions for children and young people. The first step in such coordination is to integrate the provision of an anonymous question-and-answer service on Norway’s largest youth public website, which is young.no, which is the website where young people prefer to find this kind of information and also ask these kinds of questions. Klara Klock, which is owned by the Nordland County Municipality, has met a need for a period when young people sought digital health information, but the provision of such services was limited. The county municipality has actively contributed to the preparation of the coordination, but unfortunately in December it refused to be a supplier of the health professional content of young people. The county decided to close its website on 1 January of this year, and the service has already been closed. It has been my wish that Klara Klock, with his competence and experience, should be part of the further coordination, but I have to respect the choice that the county council has made in this matter. But the good news is that the offer to children and young people is being maintained and is now being continued on young.no. Data from the first weeks of the year show that young people have discovered this and are using the query service actively. The young people’s website receives a large number of health issues from children and young people of all ages and cooperates with the Health Directorate to ensure that the network service has the necessary information and resources to meet the needs of young people. An important prerequisite for ensuring that health responses maintain the required quality is that qualified health professionals with clinical experience from work with the target population provide the professional responses. The other good news, for which I am very pleased, is that almost all the professionals who answered questions for Klara Klock have accepted to do the same via young.no. In this way, the professional competence from the Klara Clock service is continued, but in the way that young people themselves have made the impression in the Health Notice that they want to be easily accessible at young people’s age – one way in and good response back.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1567	The working party suggested in the budget that a large national platform be built around the precisely Klara Clock, so that this was not split up. Driving a website can be done anywhere as long as you have a good specialist editorial and access to good, professionally competent groups and services that can help you answer questions or call in. Such a service can be run as well from Bjørnøya as from Bislett – here we are talking about Bodø. Didn't the Council of State ever think that it would be possible to build around this editorial and the environment you had in Bodø to operate the national service wide from just Bodø?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1572	Well, that's what was my primary wish. That was also the offer to the county council, but the county council said no, and then I have to deal with it. My primary mission, of course, is to make sure that young people get answers to the questions, which is the most important thing. I think it would have been a good idea to continue this environment in Bodø, which administered the answers to health questions. It had solved the county council in a good way earlier under the umbrella of young.no, but it did not want the county council to take responsibility for further. That's why I'm very happy that we quickly managed to turn around and make agreements with the same health professionals who sit around the country and answer these questions, and that the young people are already getting answers to the questions they send in to young people, and that must be the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1577	I am not sure if the Minister of Health understood the question or our proposal, because it was not just about the health issue being driven from Bodø, but about building a national platform for young people.no around an environment in Bodø that is already very good and that young people have used – 2.4 million have been in that service. I have to say that when you're not worried about cutting down a job and jobs, it goes into a trend that I think this government stands for. You haven't exactly been good at looking north. The Loan Fund has been closed in Tromsø, and the jobs of people employed in the Directorate of Economic Management have been laid down. They tried to shut down the Department of the Veterinary Institute in Tromsø, but were stopped by the Stortinget, and they will not use the Legal Genetics Center in Tromsø – with competent people – because they have thoughts of privatising an environment that is not in Norway. So I ask, this nittiring anywhere other than northward – is the closure of the Klara Clock part of that strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1584	The black paint of North Norway that the representative is running with, I don't think many people in the north are familiar with. Unemployment is record low, among other things. record investments in building future healthcare in North Norway. There will soon be a new hospital in Kirkenes, a new hospital opened in the Vesterålen, a new hospital is planned in Narvik, and a new hospital is planned in Helgeland. These are heavy investments in the billion class in Bodø and Tromsø. Nord-Norway then goes down under the Right-Fremskritsparte-government with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left. I had a scheme in which the county council could receive support to operate Klara Clock services on behalf of young people, but to which the county council unfortunately refused. I cannot force a county council to perform a task on behalf of the state; they must actually want to do so themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1592	From the representative Kåre Simensen to the Minister for Defence: ‘In the criteria for obtaining, among other things, the Medal of War, there is a requirement for action far beyond what can be expected. There are strict documentation requirements to get the Medal of War. At Altagård we have a memorial with the names of the soldiers who gave their lives to defend Norway's freedom. Similar monuments can be found across the whole country. Why is it not giving their lives in the fight for freedom of the country a good enough evidence of an effort that should be judged far beyond what you can expect?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1600	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1608	‘Political rhetoric can help promote the acceptance of immigrants, both for ethnic and religious minorities. The rhetoric of the Council of State has debated whether rhetoric and ‘like and part’ practices contribute to harming the objective of integrating immigrants and indigenous Northmen from non-Norwegian sources. What rhetorical action does the Council of State plan to take to create a debate climate in Norway that does not promote everyday racism, but everyday integration as advocated by Prime Minister Erna Solberg in his New Year's speech?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1615	Everyone has a responsibility to hold a good and tidy debate. It also means discussing what is actually said in the context it's said, instead of adding other opinions and motives that don't match reality. I am accused by the representative Raja of creating racism. The concept of racism is used extensively in the debate, in my opinion often when there are no factual arguments. At the integration conference the government arranged last fall, Professor Unni Wikan told how she was branded racist by politicians and others because she proposed to introduce Norwegian training requirements for all immigrants in the 1990s. The debate has progressed further, but today too, the debate is being tried by accusations of racism when it comes to legitimate issues. The main challenge is that the concept of racism is eroded, which is a sin, because there is no doubt that there is racism in Norway. We will tolerate a fresh debate, but I assume that when you make such serious accusations against others, you are able to justify them. I record that the representative Raja replied to the VG that he does not really want to use concrete examples because many would then claim that this is not a good example of everyday racism. Nevertheless, when the representative Raja is pressured to give examples, he finds out old statements that have been repudiated an innumerable number of times. You have to deliver before you can enjoy, was mentioned. In the Brochmann II committee's investigation, which I received earlier today, chapter 9.2 discusses trust in society, the legitimacy of the model of society is based on mutual standards, and the ability and usefulness of the model of society as needed. Whether it is justified or not, there can be notions that newcomers do not meet this principle of reciprocity, and then our welfare model will be under pressure, as I read the sample. These are questions we can't sweep under the carpet, but which we have to discuss openly in the follow-up to the investigation. To use the same standard as the representative Raja, it can be concluded that the Brochmann II Committee also creates racism in Norway. More comments are unnecessary. I believe it is important to continue the discussion on the challenges facing Norway and as the Brochmann II report underlines. If we do not succeed better in getting refugees into work, this will weaken the sustainability of our welfare model with sustained high immigration, as this comes in addition to increasing pension expenditure in the coming years. That means that the oil wealth has to be divided by several. There is no hokuspocus to succeed in integration. It is hard work for the individual to learn the language and get into a labour market, which is very demanding for many who have little or no education, which applies to many of those who come. Therefore, the integration message is so important. It increases the pressure on the right to work in the introduction program and on many new approaches to improve success. I think it is important to bring forward all the good role models we have in society, as the representative Raja himself is, namely well-integrated immigrants who have been successful in Norwegian society. It is also important to show the municipalities that get good integration results, and this is what they do diligently on my many trips around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1632	Empatim approach does not bring about lasting changes in neither immigrants nor ethnic minorities born in Norway. With its divisive rhetoric, the Council of State rather creates enemy images of them, snuffs them as a group, whips up the mood and builds up under the myths that exist in society. Her rhetoric tears down trust between citizens. Her rhetoric builds up the mental walls at a time when the walls must be built down. This doesn't include or integrate. By protesting, the Council of State has irresistibly stamped opponents like hyles and claimed to be constantly misunderstood. The council refuses to take self-criticism for its own appearance and behaviour, for her own rhetoric, and she refuses to realize that she actually promotes everyday racism. Does the council see that appearing as an enemy into the environment, where her job is to integrate, does not yield the results the Storting wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1637	On the contrary: I meet many immigrants on my way, and in common to everyone, what you appreciate is being taken seriously and met with respect. I believe that we are clear as to what expectations we have of people coming to Norway are clear as to what expectations we have of adapting life in Norway. It's very important, and it's about showing people empathy. It's about showing people respect. I think that's incredibly important. That's why I'm going to continue to have the same approach to this issue. I want to show those who succeed, where we do well in integration, but also point to the challenges. We've seen in Sweden what an approach that pushes things under the carpet and just talks about what's rose-red has led to. I will not recommend that we go in that direction, and therefore it is important that we dare to discuss the challenges, dare to discuss what is difficult, and hold a substantive debate. It has to apply to both sides.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1642	The councils have tried to explain their rhetoric by pushing the king in front of them – the king who has spent his whole life including all kinds of Northmen, single mothers, gays, immigrants and even Muslims in his last speech in the Castle Park. The King is inclusive and integral, a model. In this way, it is inappropriate for the Council of State to try to take the king to income for his conduct, a behavior that contributes to the promotion of everyday racism. We know that the government's rhetoric triggers racism and Muslimism, and her own Facebook page overflows with horror. If the goal is integration, the Council of State must change its tone completely — if the objective is to contribute to everyday integration through the effort that Erna Solberg has asked all Nordics to participate in. Continuing the state council's conduct, it's more everyday racism she achieves, but perhaps that's what her whole purpose is.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1647	I take a great deal of distance from the accusations made by the representative Raja. As far as my Facebook page is concerned, we're doing the best we can to keep it under control. But there's over 112,000 followers there and quite a lot of activity, and that's why it's obviously a big job. Then I also register that the representative Raja is trying to imitate us on Facebook and wants both debate and other. I'm very pleased, because it's a very useful channel to use against the voters to meet them and get a response. As for the king, I pointed out the fact that the king said almost the same thing as I did, but when the king said that, the representative Raja thought it was an expression of humanity, that you can't accept the whole of Africa, said in a popular way. When I said we can't accept the entire Third World in Norway and Europe, it was an expression of hostility and a little bit of each. I record that when you say fairly similar things, it is interpreted quite differently. Maybe we'll start listening to what we're saying, instead of interpreting it in the worst sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1656	Then we go to question 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1664	‘As of 1 January 2017, Norwegian fishing establishments and fishing recipients were subject to a comprehensive record-keeping obligation, entailing a significant increase in the administrative burden on the companies. Can the Council of State give status to the implementation of the legislation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1671	This regulation also has a history. It is not that you have only worked in 2017 with this landing regulations, or, quite simply, with getting more control of Norwegian resources. The red-greens started this process in 2010, with a regulation that was withdrawn, because it was too extensive and complicated and created too many burdens for business. Then we had a debate in the winter of 2013–2014, where the debate on fraud in the field of fisheries came up again. That is why, in my first year as Minister of Fisheries, I have now worked on a regulation where we are trying to gain better control of our resources. I am very pleased that the representative Pollestad also agrees. It would be strange if the Center Party would now just release this free and have no control over our resources, because there are great values in games. In this regulation, particular attention is paid to strengthening two areas in order to ensure a proper overview of the allocation of resources: weighting and weighting requirements and an extended reporting obligation – which I understand the representative of Pollestad is engaged in – over the flow of goods internally at reception. I have no problem saying that this is complicated. That is why I have also had repeated rounds of business. This week, through both my office and my political leadership, I have made personal contact with different companies along the coast to gain an even better understanding of how this implementation is going. How far have you come? Is there anyone who has a software that solves this problem? It's comprehensive. I will continue to do so this week too, because I do not feel that we are in target, although the regulation has been adopted from 1 January 2017 – actually 1 January 2015. I've told the directorate, and I've informed the business community that there will be no penalties here. Here the road has to be en route, and I am absolutely sure that there are still a lot more simplifications to make this work with the least burden for business. I can already say that during this week I come with two–three new grips to simplify further, in addition to all the simplifications that have been done through 2016. But even then, the Council of State is not sure whether it is in the process of implementing this in a way that ensures that we have resource control both inside and outside, and in such a way that businesses and businesses are least burdened.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1684	I thank you for the answer, but let me establish two things. The one thing is that it is now the Progress Party's watch in the Fisheries Directorate – it has been for almost four years – and then one has to take responsibility. The second is that resource control is about controlling the fish taken from the sea into the farm. There will be neither more nor fewer fish in the production process. Then I have to say that I think it is very special that we have introduced a regulation from 1 January 2017 and still make adjustments. A robust industrial policy should ensure that the legislation was clearly drafted at the time it was introduced, but this is not the case here. Then my question is: is business going to follow the regulation that was introduced on 1 January, or is it going to be optional in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1699	Now there are adjustments, and I want to set up a dialogue forum between the Directorate and the business community, so that each and every enterprise can have a contact with the Directorate to find new challenges that we can solve. The question from the representative is: how is this going? We've done research on it. The feedback I have received from the Directorate, which has done this investigation, is: South region: 23 plants, 9 have started work region of West: 11 plants, 4 have started work, several of the receptions receive a derogation region Middle: 11 plants, in the last period for collection, 7 of the plants have started work region of Northern Ireland: 70 plants, 32 have started and more have been completed region Nord: 98 installations, of which 71 are in good repair and dialogue, the remaining 27 are in a process of equipment supplier So it's processes, and business is well going on, but I think that the representative Pollestad might be happy that we have a government council that takes this seriously, and that's in dialogue with business every single day.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1724	It is probably my view that the legislation should have been clear before it was introduced that this work should have been done in advance. Not only am I busy with this, but also the representative Bård Hoksrud has been involved, in the case of Langesundfisk, who says that they – like 15 out of 17 recipients on the south coast – are at risk of closure due to regulatory changes. Governments used the ‘smoothly polished billiard balls’ concept before the 2013 elections. I think maybe the answer we get here is well smooth-polished, and I repeat my question: do the companies need to follow this rule, or do they still have some time to customize the production?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1733	This regulation was implemented on 1 January 2015, and then you have had a derogation along the way, to adapt the regulation. The law is in place. But it's always so that regulations can change, for the benefit of business, and that's what this government council does. I have an open door to business, and if I get even more input into simplifying, I'll do it. When you refer to the representative Hoksrud, I met with these companies, at Hyler – 18 companies. I've taken that seriously. That's why I tell the representative now that during this week I will satisfy many of the recordings I just got from these companies in the South and West, because there were different issues that came up there that neither the red-greens were aware of in 2010 nor that I was aware of before this regulation was implemented. There are new challenges coming up all the time, and I'm going to seal these holes away and simplify significantly more than what's actually done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1742	We move on to question 20, from the representative of Ingrid Heggø to the Minister for Fisheries. The President cannot see that the representative Heggø is in the Chamber, and we are moving on to question 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1750	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs: ‘There will be fewer young construction workers, showing a new report from Fafo. The number of Nordics under the age of 23 who apply to the industry is declining, and so are those who leave the profession most. The industry itself indicates that more permanent jobs are needed to make the profession more attractive to young people. Does the Council consider that more temporary staff and increased rent are positive for the future recruitment of young skilled workers to the construction industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1759	The question refers to a new report prepared by Fafo on behalf of the Land Association of Construction and the Entrepreneur Association – Construction and Construction. The report shows that there has been a strong growth in employment in the construction industry, and it is not surprising that workers from EU countries in Eastern Europe have accounted for a large proportion of this growth. There are many young workers in the construction industry. The average age of employees is 40 years. At any time there are about 5,000 apprentices in the construction industry. Nevertheless, it is true that there has been a certain decline in the young people's search for the industry, as the representative Andersen refers to in his question. The report shows that this is a development that occurred between 2007 and 2013, i.e. during the governance of the previous government. The Government has taken a number of initiatives to ensure that vocational training provides the labour market with more relevant competences. We work closely with the social partners to strengthen the apprenticeship system and create more apprenticeships. From 2017 onwards, the new rules require contracting authorities to require the use of apprentices on contracts of a certain size and duration. The government's policy is that permanent employment should be the general rule of the labour market. According to the Labour Force Survey of the Central Bureau, the proportion of temporary staff employed in the construction industry is 4 to 5 ps., i.e. far below the average. On the other hand, there has been a growth in the use of labour input from employment agencies over several years. It is understandable that businesses need to complement staff when concrete tasks are to be solved in a fluctuating volume of jobs, but it is not desirable to hire labour, for example. shall constitute the majority of the workforce of projects. The parties to the construction industry are also aware that developments in this direction would have an adverse effect on the recruitment of young people for the industry. I have now invited the social partners to participate in a working group on various issues related to today's use of rentals. In the first place, I have asked the parties to give priority to two or three issues that should be addressed in the further work. The purpose of this work shall be to outline solutions and measures concerning the issues where the parties consider that clarification is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1772	The question was: does the Council of State consider that several temporary employees and increased rentals are positive for the future recruitment of young skilled workers to the construction industry? I did not get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1777	The short answer to that is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1782	The question then arises: What will the Council of State do about it, and what will the Council of State do with the clear message from the Grand Council that the Council of State should clean up the new form of employment, ‘fixed staff without pay between missions’? I am glad that the Council of State realizes that her policy leads to fewer people wanting to go to the construction industry, but then the question is, what will she do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1789	As I said in the last part of my answer, I have invited the parties to participate in a working group to discuss issues related to rental. As I also said, we all want permanent employment to be the main form of Norwegian employment, but we see that some companies and businesses need temporary employment and rental from time to time. Today, the public sector accounts for the majority of temporary employment. The proportion in the construction industry is between 4 and 5 pst. So our question is how to manage to ensure that fixed employment is the general rule, while ensuring that the businesses and businesses that from time to time – due to peaks or other things – need renting are able to do so. When I ask companies what will happen if you ban rentals, they say it will be very serious. Therefore, as I said, I have invited the parties to participate in a working group to discuss issues related to rental. I look forward to the work being started by the working group, and then we'll see what they come up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1796	Then we go back to question 20, which is from the representative of Ingrid Heggo to the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1805	First of all, I'm sorry that I've been bad in mathematics and consider very wrong in terms of when it was my turn in the hall. I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The Councils of State have presented a new system of growth for the aquaculture industry, which divides the country into 13 production areas. At the same time, there is a clear signal that all breeders are allowed to operate in two production areas. In the 2015 farm notification, the government announced that the inter-regional biomass ceiling scheme would be evaluated. The Committee then underlined the importance of maintaining the flexibility of the industry in a new system and the firmness of the processing standard. How have the Councils secured processing obligations and Norwegian jobs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1816	First, just for the sake of order, I would like to point out that there is no processing obligation in the Norwegian aquaculture industry. On the other hand, actors who further process a significant share of their fish may seek geographical flexibility in their operations by combining authorisation capacities within two adjacent regions of the Directorate-General for Fisheries and exploiting them across those regions. This is called an interregional biomass ceiling. I have, of course, read and noticed that in Innst. 361 S for 2014-2015, a unanimous SSC writes the following: ‘The Committee indicates that the government will evaluate the interregional biomass ceiling. The government indicates that repealing the scheme could have a negative impact on the processing establishment in Norway. The Committee agrees. The Committee considers that the objective of the evaluation of inter-regional biomass ceilings must be to adapt the scheme to a new system, stressing the need to maintain the flexibility of the industry today. The Committee considers that the current processing standards should be firm.» In practice, the Committee has decided that the inter-regional biomass ceiling scheme should be established. At least that's how I interpreted it. The government and I have therefore, in the light of the clear understanding of this, decided that actors who further process a substantial share of their fish produced will be able to have flexibility to exploit their permits over three production areas, i.e. those farmers who further process a substantial share of their fish will have flexibility over one production area more than those who do not have a share of processing and, with it, essentially, the flexibility of the inter-regional biomass ceiling scheme. In this context, I would like to inform you that I have received an enquiry from a company that currently has interregional biomass ceilings, which believes that their flexibility has been somewhat reduced. This enquiry is now being dealt with in the department, and if it turns out that we have reduced the flexibility of this company or other companies in addition to what the Stortinget has clearly provided, I will of course consider new regulatory adjustments, so that flexibility is maintained. In addition, the new legislation – as it is today – provides for further flexibility in the decision-making process by the authorities. In this way, of course, I and the government will take care of the clear leadership that Stortinget has given.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1836	It is quite right, as the minister says here, that the government has taken away the processing obligations of the large companies. I guess we're not sure about that. I mean, it's very unfortunate, something the minister hasn't said. But when it comes to the processing obligation on the inter-regional biomass ceiling, I am still a little uncertain. It is open so that all can now operate in two production areas. Does this also mean that all of them are given the same obligations as they had under interregional biomass ceilings, i.e. that a processing obligation is imposed on all those operating in two areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1843	No, I tried to ensure that everyone would have flexibility within three production areas, but when I sent it out to a brief hearing, the feedback was clear and clear that it would weaken further processing. And is there something that I and the government are concerned about – and certainly also the representative Heggø and the Workers' Party – is that we should have more further processing. That's why I drew my proposal that was at the hearing. I have made it clear that those who previously had flexibility in three production areas will retain it, with the same requirement for further processing. But then I have opened up that everyone can have flexibility within two production areas. So I say that there is no requirement for processing, but if small and medium-sized enterprises that do not have the great flexibility, of course are free to cooperate or buy services even in terms of processing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1850	The Committee also called for an evaluation of this with interregional biomass ceilings. Has that evaluation been carried out, and when will the Storting know what has been the result of that evaluation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1855	While examining this traffic light system, there have been many meetings and debates around it, but a purely cost-benefit evaluation of the need for further processing is not in place. But I'm going to try to put this system in place from the fall on. I think that’s a good question — and that’s important, because we all have intentions to create more processing, more processing in Norway. Both in the aquaculture industry and in the whitefish sector, we are concerned about it. So Stortinget has said that I'm going to put in different strategies to get more raw material on land, more of the fish on land. This is also linked to strategies that will eventually give us some keys to creating more processing and processing in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1862	Question 21 has already been answered. Let's move on to question 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1870	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture: ‘We know that cultural use among young people is guided by the price of activity. The latest in ‘Culture to participate’, which Telemarksforschung has carried out for the municipality of Drammen in 2016, indicates that a high price is a negative factor for increased participation and use. What is the reason why the Right Party government is so negative about the possibility of a national regime ensuring greater opportunities for cultural experience for young people?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1879	Democracy, justice and diversity are the values that at the overall level justify public support for cultural life. It is an objective to ensure all access to cultural assets, such as theatres, concerts, operas and museums, and to support forms of cultural activity that various groups of the population perceive as meaningful. The government has therefore committed itself to further developing the cultural school system. It is a national scheme for secondary and primary students. It is now run by the Culture Tank — The cultural school bag in Norway, after conversion and naming last year, with funding of the games. Every year, we're also going to give over 11 million. kr in support of local, regional and national cultural gatherings, from and to young people, under the direction of the UKM – Young Culture Meetings. The UKM has announced large local differences in the participation of municipalities in culture among young people and has received increased support to assist at local level in this respect. In recent years, Drammen municipality, Telemarksforschung and the English company Creativity, Culture and Education have collaborated on the research project Culture to participate. The cultural services provided by young people in Dramam were examined and not used, and the types of cultural services used by whom. The young people in the project have stated price as important, especially for the cinema offer. But for the use of libraries, it is the opening hours that are most important, and for going on the Union scene, the content of the offer itself counts. In the final report, Telemarksforschung states: ‘Following these projects has taught us that there is hardly one phase, one way to build up a municipal work for cultural participation for young people. There is a width of the tasks and a width of the challenges.’» Telemark research also shows that municipal cultural work is characterised by interactions between cultural, pedagogical, social and integrated work. This confirms the government's view, that it is not appropriate to establish a general national scheme to stimulate increased cultural participation among young people, when we see that young people themselves state that there are very many other things — opening hours and content — that mean a lot to the choice. In the case of cultural use at national level, the Culture Survey shows that children and young people are more users of most cultural services than most other age groups. It is the cultural use survey conducted by the SSB every four years, last published in 2013, which confirms this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1899	I am pleased with the answer – to have a goal of ensuring cultural offerings for everyone. But it is a fact that the Right-Fremskritsparte-regieringen cut the Youth Culture Card. It varied from state to state – that was the reason for the sitting government. However, arrangements could have been found that made it less abnormal. At the same time, one could have seen local adjustments within the framework. The cultural card provided freedom of choice for those who had less to walk with. Does the Minister for Culture see that she facilitates greater differences between young people, between those who can afford to go to cinema — which is a desired cultural offer for young people — and those who cannot afford it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1906	I also believe the Workers' Party agrees that when you see that the number of applicants for a government scheme is falling, and it turns out that there is no longer any basis for considering the scheme as a national task, you have to wind it up. That's what happened to the cultural card, and that's why the government did what it did. There is also a reason why we do not want to go into other national schemes, because we have seen how successful the Stoltenberg II project Kulturskoletimen was, a project that would give young people cultural experiences. It would cost $40 million. And then it ended up costing 182 million. kr. It was seen that the offer given to young people at school was not very appropriate also in terms of quality, compared to the cultural school giving them. The national schemes put in place by the Labour Party do not prove to be very targeted. Therefore, I do not think it is appropriate to consider new ones either.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1915	I find that the Council of State does not want to answer the question I am asking. I'll put it in a slightly different way. In the West, we now experience record unemployment. This, of course, affects the situation of families with regard to giving their own children access to cinema, for example. This is not a situation that has lasted for a short time, over a few weeks – it has lasted over the years. This is growing up young people in the West. Believes the Minister of Culture, like, for example, The country’s largest youth policy organisation, AUF, that Youth Culture Cards had contributed to the fact that more young people in the West – in the current situation, with one or two unemployed parents – had the ability to go to cinema more often?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1920	To put it this way: it is more important for the government that young people in the West have a mother and a father who have a job to go to and who care for the family than that young people get cheaper movies. That's what the government's approach is. When we see how little the cultural map was used, and therefore it had to be discontinued – also because it was so much different from the state to the state, which showed that it was a scheme that did not function optimally – we are more concerned about what the content of the cultural offer is. And when young people themselves answer that it is more important for them with opening hours in the library, so that they can go and read there or visit other offers and activities that are in the library, or that it is the very content of the cultural events that are more important than price, I think that then we should listen to the young people, then we should do what they ask us to do, namely, bet on quality, on content, on opening hours. When I was young, I also wanted cheaper cinema, but I don't think that's what we're going to prioritize right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1932	‘During the consultation on the agricultural notification, several young people, including students from Jønsberg agricultural school, expressed the fact that the action taken by the notification would make recruitment to the industry more difficult. Many young people are critical of the weakening of welfare systems and become uncertain about whether to invest in agriculture. Does the Council of State understand this concern?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1939	I can understand that concern based on the discussion that I have followed after the presentation of the agricultural message, but I cannot really understand it based on the substance proposals contained in the agricultural message. There are some important commitments that need to be put in place in order for us to be able to recruit young people for the agricultural industry. The first is that they think there's a future there. We see it to a great extent that young people actually believe. Several young people are well placed to invest — investment in agriculture is larger than in very many years. One of the other conditions that must be in place is that it is actually possible to live with food production. Based on the agricultural agreement that was concluded for 2017, in May 2016, we know that the projected income growth in the period 2014-2017 is 18 3⁄4 pst. It's more significant than for other groups. We see that the decline in agricultural land is flattening, and that fewer farmers are yielding than before. The Agriculture Communication announces new measures, e.g.: a clearer division of labour between flatlands and central strata, allowing young people in the whole of Norway to invest in a future in agriculture, for example. rather than prioritizing an early pension scheme to farmers who are going to sell the garden and stop producing food when they are 62 years of age, we are strengthening investment incentives for young people under 35 years of age, in order to make it easier to find the road into agriculture instead of making it easier to find the road out of agriculture. When we suggest that more farmers, more young farmers, too, get more flexibility, through the trigger system, f. For example, by first getting the money directly to itself instead of via a third, suggest that you have more flexibility in choosing what time you want help, how much the triggers will have, or if in a phase where you build up, you will spend a little more money on what you have received to make a self-help, and then save the holiday for the following year. So I mean that the message points to many flexible schemes like Norwegian youth who want to enter agriculture, will profit from it. The Agriculture Communication also says that we should have a clear target of increasing Norwegian food production. It provides business opportunities for Norwegian youth. The notification points to important recruitment measures such as strengthening the skills of those who choose to train in Norwegian agriculture, different, variable, for example. through the work of the government in conjunction with the peasant layers now to look at the possibility of waxen agronomism education, so that even enterees who do not have formal education can get it. So the message shows many good suggestions to strengthen the basis that Norwegian youth chooses Norwegian agriculture. Therefore, I cannot understand the concern based on the actual content of the message, but I can understand that some people are asking themselves the question based on the discussion that, among other things, The working party has the right to keep alive after the presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1952	The question was really asked in such a good tone, and I agree with the Council of State that many of the factors he points to are important for recruitment – especially what he points to in relation to profitability. Of course it's important. The ability to come into position, both for soil and for operating materials, is crucial. But I understand a little bit of the problem for these girls who come from Jønsberg. They were actually concerned about not releasing the funds that are currently going to vacation and leisure, perhaps with a fear that the parental regeneration, which is used to living on the farm, will assimilate it into operation, so that at the time of the acquisition there is actually no means of meeting the needs of young people today to a greater extent, for holidays and leisure time. That's why I think that's something we should perhaps take more seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1957	I'm serious about all the contributions from the team, even when they come through the Workers' Party. However, it is important to bear in mind that the supplements that are currently available to the holiday and leisure agencies, and which give rise to a requirement for documentation, come every year. That means that these money will also come every year with the amendment I have now submitted, but they will go directly to the farmer. This means that one can choose to buy a replacement – just like today, at the same level as today – but the only thing that escapes then is to send documentation to the state that one has chosen to use their money on redemptions. So what one actually does is give the individual farmer, young or old, greater flexibility, greater opportunity to spend the time tending the animal or grass instead of writing paper to the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1968	After all, the Council of State has to think, since this is such an excellent reform, and which is so absolutely beneficial to the farmer, about why almost all of the industry is opposed to it, and the NHO – of all in the hearing in the Stortinget – describes that this can contribute to a more unprofessional working life. These were not my words, not the words of the Workers' Party, but those were NHO's words. So I think you might want to have some humility about what this actually means, when younger farmers say that you fear that the money comes every year, you have established an operating level and investments that suggest that that money actually goes to something other than well-being and leisure. That's what they're saying, that younger people today might have a slightly different approach to going into agriculture, to run such a steady diet – that you shouldn't be on the farm 365 days, that you should have a certain amount of security if something happens about health, well-being or, for that matter, pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1973	In fact, if something happens to health, I suggest that the trigger system be continued as it is – if there are diseases or other conditions around the health situation that would make it necessary. So then I suggest no change. Then I'm glad that the Labour Party has realised what an excellent reform this is. That's very good. And then I'm going to warn you that this gives you an unprofessional life. Norwegian farmers are quite aware of how they manage their operations. They're going to make good judgements, and they're going to pay people decent pay for the work they do on the yard, even if they have to buy services directly from the brokerage team, or if the money has initially gone there. So there's one thing that's important to remember. It is quite right – I agree with the representative of Storberget – that it is crucial that a person should have greater flexibility for young people who are now in the rural sector. Therefore, e.g. The Labour Party joined my proposal. Instead of paying old farmers to get out of the industry, we will stimulate extra investment for young people. This makes them e.g. may invest in milk robotics, which provide greater flexibility, so as to avoid being on the garden 365 days a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1985	‘In Marker Municipality there have been long-term discussions about the establishment of a wind farm. The case has taken a very long time, it started in 2012, and the local environment strongly calls for clarification. I refer to e-mails sent from the municipality of Marker to the Ministry of Oil and Energy on 4 March 2015, 7 April and 2 November 2016, which have not been answered by the department. Can the Council clarify when the Ministry of Oil and Energy can respond to the concession request, and what does the Council of State think that e-mails sent from the Municipality of Marker to the Ministry of Oil and Energy will be unanswered over several months?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e1992	Let me first say that the concession matter as the representative Lauvås here's demand, is already settled. Yesterday, at the Enova conference in Trondheim, I announced that Scanergy AS was granted a concession for the construction and operation of the wind farm in the municipality of Marker. It is an exciting project that contributes to electricity generation to over 10,000 households, creating ring-effects and profitable jobs locally. It also shows that there are good wind conditions for renewable power generation in several inland areas. So for the time spent in this case: NVE took concession decisions in December 2013. The decision was appealed by the municipality of Marker and the Swedish neighbouring municipality of Årjäng. In addition, several landowners and other stakeholders complained on both sides of the border. The Ministry was sent the complaint in April 2014 and the same harvest was held in Marker. One of the reasons why this concession case has taken a little longer is that the former measureholder E.ON transferred the wind power project to Scanergy AS. In addition, the Ministry was briefed that the company would engage in dialogue with the municipality of Marker on the adjustment of the project and meet the municipality’s objections. In the spring of 2016, the Ministry was informed that Marker and Årjäng municipalities had taken the complaint on the concession decision. The municipality's decision to withdraw the complaint provided that it would also be in dialogue with Scanergy to find remedial measures and adjustments in the project. The Ministry received a planning request in the autumn of 2016. As a result, the Ministry had to decide on changes in the final consideration of this concession case. With regard to the enquiries by e-mail to which the representative refers, it is correct that one of them, from November 2016, has not been formally answered. So that's one of them. The reason for this is that the department had to await comments from the County of Eastfold and Eastfold County on the proposed plans. At the end of the treatment, Marker municipality was made aware of this by copies of the subsequent letters from the County and from the county to the department. In this case, I am pleased that we have found good solutions between the municipality and the builder that can contribute to the creation of both more renewable energy and jobs and activity in Marker. And we've taken good care of the municipality's views.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2005	It's funny how the coincidences came from the question was asked. I'm recording that yesterday's clarification came. But – as I said – the coincidences, I guess. It is true that the Council of State points out that there have been appeal proceedings and that kind of thing, and there have been exchanges in the project, etc. I had the pleasure of being in this matter earlier – I was the rapporteur there. After all, the Council of State also has a rapporteur's time not far behind it. In the case of the e-mails that have been sent, and which I get informed by the municipality that they have not been answered, all of them, even the first one, from 4 March 2015, i.e. almost two years ago. An automatically generated e-mail was received saying that the e-mail had been received, but no response was received when it was processed, or how it was to be processed. What will the Council of State do to ensure that his department can respond better to such enquiries?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2014	I think we can make a lot of noise about the rapporteur's time, the representative and me. But the question related to e-mails: I have been informed that the e-mail of 4 March 2015 from the mayor was answered the same day. In the case of the e-mail of 7 April, on which a response was requested, it contained a transmission of a municipal decision and a copy of a letter to Scanergy and a briefing on the handling of a legal action relating to the municipal proceedings. This message was not to be answered by the department. As regards the e-mail of 2 November 2016, I have already explained that it was followed up through the correspondence that took place via the Eastfold County and Eastfold County Assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2024	‘After fibre cables were broken off the coast of the Varanger peninsula, 3 500 people were isolated from regular long-term communication. In addition, there were several fishermen without coastal radio and emergency response. What does the Council of State do to ensure that this happens again, and when will new and better solutions be in place?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2031	The government is continuously working to improve its digital infrastructure. Through the work of the Lysne Committee, we have a better understanding of the digital vulnerabilities of society. Monitoring has made it easier to put in extra effort where it is needed. The Lysne Committee has, among others: made several concrete recommendations to reduce the vulnerability of the eco-infrastructure. The Minister for Transport has the primary responsibility for the safety of the eco-infrastructure and promoted a national electronic communications plan in 2016. The ECOM plan shows that several measures to strengthen the safety and robustness of the electronic communications network need to be implemented in concrete terms. The Minister of Transport reports to me that they have surveyed several areas in the country where municipalities are particularly vulnerable to echoes, just as we experienced in Varanger peninsula. In Finland, there is also a special challenge with prosperity and repair during winter. Therefore, the Nkom National Communications Authority has launched the ‘Enhanced Ecom’ programme in cooperation with the providers Telia, ICE, Telenor and the relevant authorities, precisely to enhance communication security in vulnerable municipalities. The Nkom provider, the statesmen and the DSB jointly point out municipalities equipped with additional communications and power supply. Municipalities in Nordland and Finnmark have been given priority in this work. It is now in the process of assessing the event and whether it is necessary to introduce additional measures or impositions in these areas. Communication with the outside world is important to us. When this falls out, we notice how vulnerable we are, and not least how dependent we are on technology and infrastructure. As Minister of Justice and Preparedness, I am concerned that we have satisfactory preparedness when such events occur. It is important that the response actors are able to cooperate well, and that we have good tools to ensure interaction and communication. Emergency networks are an important tool for the emergency and emergency seats and actors. The emergency network had no downtime with the fiber breach. The availability of emergency networks to the emergency facilities, the municipality and the county, was important in a situation where the normal communication solutions were unavailable.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2040	I thank you for the answer, but I might wish the Council of State were even a little more specific on how the municipalities affected here will be followed up. The situation that arose in January was due to two disruptions to the sea cable providing electronic communication to Berlevåg and Båtsfjord, and the County of Finnmark mentioned this as both level A and level B lying in the same cable. The State has underlined the need for a new review of critical infrastructure in Finnmark. The fishing team has approached the government and asked for a new risk assessment of central infrastructure, and KS Finnmark has pointed to the need for an alternative fibre connection on land, so that both level A and level B are no longer to be found in the same cable. How do the state councils view the recordings of the County, the Fiskarlag and KS Finnmark, respectively?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2045	Once again, it is the Minister for Transport who is responsible for security and preparedness in the ecosystem and related services, and he has reported to me that the municipality of Berlevåg is a priority in the work on reinforced echoes, together with others. Finnmark municipalities Lebesby and Gamvik. Then there is a high cost of providing Berlevag with enhanced communication by strengthening today's fibre connection and extra line into the municipality. Therefore, Nkom and the providers will consider several alternative solutions to reduce costs, but this is definitely a input that is included in that assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2052	I thank you for the answer and interpret it so that the Council of State will do the new risk assessments requested by the County and the Fisker Team, and that it will work to put in place backup solutions to stop getting both plane A and level B in the same cable. But this also raises another issue, and it's about onshore preparedness when the accident, or the unexpected, occurs. In this situation, two municipalities lost their electronic communications with the outside world. The municipalities concerned are praised by the State for the way in which they handled the situation. At the same time, however, we know that it is being cut in the police, and that there are concerns about police presence in many municipalities in Coastal Finland. Can the Council of State ensure that in the event of future events, there are police officers who can sort out if communication with the outside world falls away?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2059	The last thing I have to say is, it's not cut in the police, it's cut across the board. With the record large appropriations from the Stortinget by a majority of the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left last year, for this year's state budget, there is a significant increase in money for the police and, in particular, for the police districts. The reform we are in the middle of is precisely about facilitating better and more equivalent police services across the country, and it is actually about having shorter response times, more police force in place, and you have to be sure that the reform will provide exactly what you want – a good police service across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2069	‘There is a strong need for more prison sites in Norway. Ullersmo and Oslo prisons will soon remove a large number of places, which will be partially replaced by new ones in Eidsberg and Ullersmo. The West is in great need of more prison sites. The Norwegian level is 75 prison sites per year. 100000 inhabitants. Both More and Romesdal and Sogn and Fjordane have 40. The biggest is the need for Sunnmare with only 15. What does the Council of State do to ensure that all regions have enough detention places, and when can we expect new places to be built in the west?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2076	The government is increasing the settlement capacity in Norway, and we have done so throughout this period of government. In 2014, Oslo prison capacity was increased by 20 places, as well as 50 more settlement sites through the use of doubles in prisons. Before Christmas 2014, the Government submitted to the Stortinget a Communication on a development plan for crime prevention. The notification highlights the demanding capacity situation that was present when this government took over. The notification shall provide forecasting of needs and possible solutions to ensure sufficient capacity. In 2015, up to four places were allocated to the creation of 41 new closed prisons and to a separate youth unit. It's also been granted 10 million. kr, so that several prisoners can be transferred to a treatment institution. Money has been granted for expansions at Ullersmo prison and at Inner Eastfold prison, Eidsberg, with 96 and 85 seats respectively. Parts of Oslo prison are laid down when these places are completed in the first half of 2017, as the government pointed out in a question, but the net increase is in any case nine places. Money has been allocated in 2016 and 2017 for the design of new prisons in Agder with a total of 300 places. At the same time, the resolution implementation capacity in the East has been investigated through a draft selection investigation and the related quality assurance, which is to be assessed in the Ministry. The government will continue its efforts to expand Norwegian prison capacity in order to avoid the recurrence of accomplices and to provide the police with a sufficient number of custody facilities. We need to look at the need for prison places in a national perspective and on the basis of professional assessments. The Ministry will launch a concept selection inquiry for the West, which is scheduled to start up in the second half of this year. The Government will return to the priority of actions, allocation needs and progress in the annual budgetary processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2093	The question was first and foremost about the West, where we feel that the situation is critical. I mentioned the Criminal Services region west, but we also have the Haugaland area, where we have waited a very long time to replace Haugesund prison. Åna prison is another. Eilesund prison has been on the map for a long time, perhaps one of the most vulnerable. But we also have Vik prison, which has the ability to establish 30 new places. Then we also have Bjørgvin prison, which is very old and to decline, and which was actually built by prisoners in the 1960s. The Council of State said that the KVU for the West comes first to the harvest, but it was said that it would come already last summer. When can we expect it to be done? And the concept selection investigation for the East is still in the department. When's it coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2100	Of course, I can't give you a date, but I can promise that we'll work as fast as we can to get new prison places and increase the settlement capacity. This is a priority area for the government. And like I say, we've delivered the most when you see the nation as a whole. I understand that there are challenges in some parts of the country, and as I pointed out, we also have plans for the West. But it takes time to pick up what was long prison cows when this government took over. It takes time to get all the prison places in place. However, despite the challenges that the government took on in 2013 in terms of both housing queues and lack of custody, we have in reality zeroed out the housing queues. It also has to mean something.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2107	We have 200 women as sons. There are relatively few, but they may have some of the worst offers. Many of them have experienced sexual harassment in advance, and it is not desirable and fortunate that they get activity offers with men. This means that the offer is largely concentrated in the eastern part of the country, with long distances in order to maintain family ties and in relation to the repatriation work and to be related to the surrounding environment. What plans does the Minister have with regard to the organisation of modern facilities for women as sons?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2114	I have a lot of understanding of that question. It's absolutely a priority from the government to find out good deals. I understand that, as I say, but I can't make any real promises right now. We'll get back to it, but what I can promise, is that this is something that we take on the highest seriousness, and that we want to find good solutions to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2122	‘On the basis of the work of the Norwegian police, the model of cooperation lies. Its success depends on a high level of confidence in the population. Trust takes a long time to build up, but is easy to tear down. Now, measurements show that trust in the Norwegian police is on the way down. What does the Council of State intend to do to reverse the unfortunate development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2129	The near-police model is the basis of the Norwegian police. The strength of the Norwegian police has traditionally been in close contact with the population of the community. The close police reform builds on this model and strengthens the requirements of the police service. The trust and security created by the local police and the population are also at the heart of the future. The police have high confidence in Norwegian society. The Directorate of Administration and ICT, Diffi, and the Directorate of Police, conduct regular surveys of citizens where the issue of trust in the police is central. About 80 pst. the public has confidence in the police. However, I assume that the representative Ljunggren refers to the investigation carried out by Ipsos for the administration of the Court of Justice and published in December 2016. Also this one shows that almost 80 pst. the public has confidence in the police. At the same time, there was a decrease in the proportion that indicated that they had great confidence. That's something we're taking seriously. The police have to work to maintain and strengthen confidence every day. One way to do it is to provide good services to the population. It is therefore important that the police are modernised and developed in line with societal developments. The government is helping to facilitate such a development. The government has been increasing the police's appropriations for the entire period. Since the government's accession, the police's operating budget has increased by 4.6 billion. NOK, salary-adjusted, price-adjusted and pension-adjusted, i.e. SEK 2.5 billion. kr – a significant increase. The number of annual works under this government has increased by about 1800. And the forecasts show that we will reach the target figure of two police officers per thousand inhabitants at national level in 2019. Work methods and digitisation are heavily invested, which will provide better experiences for the public in meeting with the police. On-site police work and the extension of online notification solutions are also among the quality enforcement measures that are coming forward. Governments and magnification have expectations for the development of police attitudes, culture and leadership. It is an objective of the reform of the police — to get a police force that produces better results in a culture of transparency and trust through good governance and active employeeship. A number of different measures have been taken to build on a good police culture. It's important to people's trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2142	Thanks for the answer. It's quite right, as the Council of State says, that it's the police population survey, carried out by Ipsos, which I refer to in my question. There we see that the percentage who trust the police is the same as in the previous year, but the proportion who have great confidence has fallen. Four out of five Northmen have confidence in the police, but that means there are over one million Northmen who don't have it, and as the top leader of the Norwegian police, it should worry the Minister of Justice. I also feel here from the answer that he has taken it over. That's good. From 2015 to 2016, there is also a decline in the number that has great confidence in the police in Troms and Finnmark. The figures for Finnmark are particularly high — they were both in 2015 and 2016 — among those with very little trust and confidence in the police, compared to other states. Does the Minister of Justice and Defence consider this to be a challenge, and how will he meet this challenge in his time as Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2149	It's along the lines I've already talked about. It's about giving good services to the people. It is about realising the near-police reform, which will contribute most to it. But it's a good idea that we also withdraw a little bit and see the big picture, because the big picture is that in Norway we have an extremely good police, an extremely good police that provides good services. Compared to most other countries, police in Norway have great confidence. It's important to bring it with you. But you'll never be satisfied until the number is 100 pst. I promise we'll work for people to see. At least what is not helpful, however, is when some prominent politicians in the Grand Duchy contribute to talking the police down. It creates uncertainty, and I'm a little worried that it actually helps to weaken confidence, on a totally wrong basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2154	This is the standard response from the government. If we refer to challenges that exist in some sectors, we get the answer that we talk it down. I only ask for an answer on how this work is to be done by the government in the future. Enough about that. Yesterday, at the Day Revy, we saw a survey conducted by the University of Bergen, anonymously among 6 000 police officers, where a few have confidence that the police will provide better services after the police reform, which the Minister of Justice has spent a lot of time talking about here. Today, the Minister of Justice has said that the police reform investigation is out of date, while we read at Nrk.no that Sigve Bolstad in the Police Union says that the result would be even worse today. The police director said yesterday that it will take time that we can't deliver from day one. Does the Council of State agree that the police can't deliver from day one? And how long does the Minister of Justice think it's okay that people have to wait for the outcome of the new reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2161	I do not share the situation description. The study to which the representative refers was – quite correctly – carried out before the reform was launched, before the launch of the reform. And then, as is often the case in many situations, before a reform that can affect your own working life and your own life, there is uncertainty. It's completely natural, and we know that. This is a so-called zero point study. This means that, from that zero point of view, progress should be monitored through police reform, in order to provide a basis for assessing ongoing implementations of the reform. But if you want to ask if a reform works, you have to ask after you have implemented it – not before. This is the reality of the investigation that I experience being made very erroneously in the media. But we're going to work and stand on every single day to get a good reform, and I also hope the Workers' Party can contribute to it, those who, after all, have agreed to vote for the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2172	‘The fastest and most important response facility in the police is the nearest police patrol, that is, the general police officer who is out there among people when the incident occurs. Numbers from POD on 1 September 2016 showed that the number of police officers in the police districts has fallen in the last year. What has the government planned to do to reverse this trend, so that the government does not continue to make the preparedness worse?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2179	The claim by the representative Hadia Tajik as the starting point for his question is not consistent with the strong growth that has taken place in the police in recent years. Let me come back to it later in the answer, but let me just stress that I agree with the representative that the general police officer who is out there among people when events occur is an important response resource. It is also one of the reasons why this government, with the support of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, is in the process of implementing the greatest change of the times in the Norwegian police, namely the near-police reform. The close police reform will provide a more accessible and accessible police service. With the near-police reform, we ensure a competent and effective neighbourhood police force and develop good professional environments that are equipped to meet tomorrow's challenges. The Police Directorate has now decided on a new local organisation of Norwegian police. Fewer LEN's offices shall release time and resources for the police's core tasks: prevention, investigation and preparedness. This government aims to have two police officers or women per 1000 inhabitants by 2020. Based on the latest forecasts, we can achieve this objective as early as 2019. This is due to a targeted work in which we have proposed appropriations so that police students can be offered a job in the department. In the 2014–2017 budget, appropriations have been increased each year, with the result that around EUR 10 million has been allocated to the budget. 350 new students from the Police College can be offered a job. In addition, there are those who enter the vacant jobs in the floor. Under this government, in fact, unlike what the representative claims, there is an increase in crews of about 1,800 annual works. Under 1,000 of these, 800 to 900, are police officers and women. I therefore think it is a not insignificant exaggeration to say that the preparedness has become worse. During 2016 there will be a slight increase in police personnel. I believe that the police districts have spent too much time recruiting the students who had graduated from the Police College in the summer of 2016, but figures from the Police Directorate show that by 31 December 2016 there were 91 pst, respectively. and 97.2 pst. of the students from the hills in the spring of 2015 and 2014 who had passed all the exams, the police. Of those who had graduated from the Police College in the spring of 2016, 51.6 had pst. job in the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2190	I'm assuming that the Minister of Justice is not in favour of speaking from the Police Directorate, which shows a decline among police officers in the police districts. I note that his answer is essentially focused on police reform. Well, she's shown to be a savings reform, under the Right and the Advance Party. One actually takes efficiency gains in police reform, it is in their own state budget. There is no support for it at the Working Party. We have proposed more money to the police. This government has recognised more than any government on the increase in the police budget. It has several consequences, including: police districts keep open because it is the only way they can make local priorities. Then I almost have to ask: why is government its own markings when it comes to police, more important to the Council of State than to give room for necessary local priorities, such as: additions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2201	The question formulation is something I do not know about, and it is precisely because we are now significantly increasing the operational budgets of the police districts in 2017. So let's do that with 295 million. kr in free resources in 2017. In the letter of assignment to the Police Directorate, I would also like the Directorate to draw up an obligatory plan, so that all those who left the Police College in 2016 who still have no job in the department are added by 1 June 2017, and that we make plans for the addition of the students who leave the Police College in 2017. I understand the problematization around free versus tied incomes. Now we're taking the utmost action to facilitate a greater degree of free returns to the police. I will follow developments closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2208	I thank you for this answer. I'm noticing that a very large part of the money that's gone to the police is wage and price growth, another major part of it is retirement. But it was just to be lacking that the police got that kind of growth in their budget. So one has made an improvement in efficiency in connection with the police reform. In addition, one has implemented what is called a red tape and efficiency reform, one of which has also raised 200 million. I'm from the police department. When we have asked, in connection with the treatment of the state budget, whether or not these funds are taken out, and what qualitative gain a given, the government has replied: ‘However, the reform is not followed by a reporting system and we cannot therefore determine the direct effects of the measures implemented.’ Then I have to ask, why does the government carry out a cut of 200 million dollars? In the police budget when a qualitative impact of the cuts cannot be demonstrated?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2222	I see that you're trying to represent what is really a very good priority for the police and officers' seat, which is something other than it really is. Yes, it's true that I referred to the number 4.6 billion. So when you take account of the pay and the price correction and, of course, the pension, it's a real increase of 2.5 billion. kr under this government. It's not small money, it's a significant effort on the police. So during this period, which I referred to, we have had 1,800 new year's work in the police department. This is not a down-priority of the police. And as I say, in the current fiscal year, we are facilitating the increased use of free revenues so that you can do more local priorities. There's nothing but a big and historic bet on the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2232	My question is: ‘Children must be protected from violence and abuse. They should not have to feel insecure in their own home. Nevertheless, we see that today's rules of silence, or lack of knowledge about them, can stand in the way of helping children against violence and abuse. In June last year, the Labour Party promoted a number of proposals for action. The council replied that the work was already under way. The matter is urgent, but it does not appear to be on the list of matters for Stortinget this spring. What measures are planned, and when can we expect them to come to the Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2241	Combating violence and abuse against children is one of our most important tasks and is high priority both by me as Minister of Justice and by the Government. South-East police districts are now testing the new risk assessment tool SARA for children, which structures police efforts to prevent violence against children in close relations. The tool is based on what is called SARA, which is currently used to prevent partner violence in a more systematic way and has produced very good results. In October last year, the government presented a stepping-up plan against violence and abuse, proposing a number of measures. The plan is now for treatment in the Storting, and it shows the great commitment we have to violent children and young people. Today, it is punishable to refrain from attempting to abdicate certain criminal offences, such as: violence and abuse against children. In such cases, the obligation of professional secrecy must give way to the abolition obligation. The question of an extension of the compulsory withdrawal is now under investigation in the ministry and is planned to be sent to the hearing during the spring. It is important that the different services, for example: kindergarten, school, health centre, is well aware of the rules on professional secrecy, disclosure and compulsory withdrawal. Furthermore, good procedures for dealing with suspicions of violence and abuse must be in place. Differences in understanding and practice of the rules on professional secrecy may prevent effective interdisciplinary cooperation on the prevention of violence and abuse against children and young people and on good and timely assistance to vulnerable children. In order to gain a common understanding of the rules on professional secrecy and exchange of information in the administration and how it is to be practised, we have decided to develop a guide. A particularly important element in this work is the clear identification of the existence of obligations or the right to provide information to police or supervisory authorities. If unnecessarily complex, challenging rules or similar problems are identified in this work, this must be pointed out and resolved. An alternative is legislative and regulatory changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2256	I thank you for your answer. When we had the matter up to treatment last year, the then state council said that the Workers' Party's proposal was almost like turning open doors. I see that the Council of State now indicates that some work is going on, but everything is at least not completed, so that door was probably just on fire right when the Workers' Party promoted its proposals. I wonder a little bit about what the Council of State was talking about here, about prevention, and there I have a question about things that come to light in legal proceedings investigating issues relating to violence against children. Is there any kind of systematisation of that knowledge, and has some plans to systematise and disseminate that knowledge to other departments that need the same knowledge as it does, for example. The police are in?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2263	Good cooperation with the various services to assist vulnerable children is essential. As part of the escalation plan against violence and abuse, the government will strengthen cooperation between the police and child protection. The Directorate for Children, Youth and Family Affairs and the Directorate for Police are developing common guidelines for cooperation between child protection and the police. The guidelines are planned for consultation in February. It is also natural here to point out that on 13 November 2015, the government put down a sample to review cases where children and young people have been subjected to gross violence, sexual assault and serious care failure, the so-called Children's Violence Committee. The task of the committee shall be to identify whether, where appropriate and in what way, there has been a failure of the official service in dealing with these matters. It's a very important work. The committee delivers its investigation in the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2268	I thank you for your answer. There is no doubt an important work that the Workers' Party should follow closely. But you don't have to wait to do anything until you have a proposal for treatment. One can also bring together those who sit on fractions of knowledge — and a little different knowledge. I had excellent cooperation with the predecessors of the Council of State, who last April sent a letter to the municipalities of the country asking them to use the Emergency Councils to prevent violence against children. All relevant agencies across sectors and levels meet on an ongoing basis. My question is whether the Council of State knows whether the municipalities have actually followed that recommendation and put violence against children on the agenda in the Emergency Councils. What does the Council of State think to do to ensure that the municipalities make it a continuous work and not just a shipper's take-off once?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2275	There are price-worthy and important measures taken by the representative here. I'll take a closer look at this. I believe in principle that it is a correct track, but I must be allowed to look into exactly the issue raised by the representative here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2283	‘The economy of Western police districts means that the police officer assesses to cut 100-140 annual works in 2017 and cut down on priority tasks, including security and preparedness. An expensive near-police reform, increased airport security and bicycle World Cup are being developed as specific reasons for this. How can the Council of State defend the fact that the implementation of the near-police reform leads to a cut of 140 posts in the police district, and will the Council of State sympathise with the full financing of the bicycle World Cup and the establishment of a new police office in Flesland?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2290	The government has given priority to the police budget during this major period. Police operating expenses following the acquisition of this government have been increased by 2.5 billion in the period 2013-2017. kr, or about 20 pst. These include: granted over 500 million. extra to the police for the implementation of the near-police reform. Since the government joined, it has been approx. 1 800 more annual works. The police budget is also a priority in 2017. A significant number of police trainers will be added who are fully funded by the additional appropriations. I'm aware that last summer, the Police Directorate planned the budgets with a cut of 2 pst. for 2017. I would like to stress that this was before the government presented its draft state budget for 2017, and I can assure the representative that this will not apply to the police districts, nor to the Western police districts. The government, on the other hand, expects police districts to have more room for action in their operating budgets this year through the 295 million. kr with which the police have been specifically strengthened. It's going to add up to about 330 million. kr to ensure that the graduates from the Swedish Police College in 2017 will have a job, as well as a full-year impact for those who went out in 2016. I also refer to the police director's statement in the Police Forum of 26 January this year, where he supports what I am now saying, with the following: ‘The fact is that the 2017 budget will be higher for the police than ever. More people will be hired. There's money to route with." It is important that police officers be given room for action to make good priorities in their own area of responsibility in order to achieve the best possible results. As politicians, we should facilitate this precisely and help to provide good framework conditions. It demands that we are held back from adding too many new detailed leads that bind the space for action and the use of resources. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that the work on the Department's letter of assignment to the Directorate of Police and the Directorate's letter of disposal, among other things. the police districts are in the final phase. The final budgetary framework and the assumptions for, inter alia, Thus, the West Police District is not formally established yet, but the result will look much better than the West Police District fears.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2306	Thanks for the answer. I had a specific question about the state council will ensure that the bike World Cup and the establishment of a new police office in Flesland are fully funded. I can't see that the Council of State took it up in the answer, so I want to ask the Council of State to answer it in concrete terms. It is also such that the police officer in Bergen’s Official Journal outlined two scenarios. Even if you don't get a cut of 2 pst. additional to the financing of the near-police reform and being fully funded by the World Cup, this will, however, lead to a reduction in annual work in the West Police District of between 30 and 45 years. Does the Council of State consider it acceptable for the following year — a cut in annual work even if one is able to fully finance the other measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2315	To quote again the police director, this time from the Official Journal of Bergen on 28 January 2017: ‘The police are getting more money and more people than ever, and so is the West. Things are going the right way.’ Then I understand the individual relationships that the representative Toppe addresses. In that case, there is something we have to get back to Stortinget at a later stage. I suppose the representative understands that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2325	I think it is a bit alarming that the Council of State dismisses what is being drawn out by the police officer as a cause of concern for the budget for the next year, precisely that the near-police reform in the district is not funded. He's got to pull 50 million. kr from the increase in annual works to which the Council of State refers to to the purchase of equipment. Therefore, there will be a reduction in annual work. He indicates that bike World Cup takes a lot of resources that the district has not been given explicit resources. He also shows that it costs to create a new police office in Flesland to secure border control. I have heard that there is more money to come than ever, but I will again challenge the Council of State to be more concrete in its response to the issues in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2336	I was really trying to explain it in my original post, it's possible it didn't come out clearly enough. The whole lookup and the letter that the media based on these cut suggestions was an exercise that the Directorate of Police gave, among other things. West police district before the state budget was presented. It was thus a theoretical exercise and not subject to realities in the State budget. And as I say, with regard to the state budget of the year – the state budget for 2017 – even when you see the situation in sum under this government, the Stortinget has never given more money to the police than what you are doing today. The government prioritizes the police, the police are a budget winner and the police are increasing the number of employees. There's no reason to say anything other than that. And then we get back to these individual things to the extent necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2344	‘22. The July Commission recommended regional Emergency Catastrophe Training Centres. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness has identified the need and is reportedly assessed by a wide-ranging working group in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The initiative was taken by the previous government early in the autumn of 2013. So now we're in 2017. When can we expect any response from the government in this matter?"
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2351	The Ministry of Justice and Defence is responsible for the main gravity of the civil rescue and preparedness resources in Norway. There has been a need to identify the status and future needs of joint exercises and competences among response actors, including whether one or more centres should be established for this purpose. The Ministry of Justice commissioned the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness to lead a working group and to hold a secretariat for the preparation of an opportunity study for one or more training and competence centres for response actors. The final mandate for this work was given on 15 July 2014, in consultation with the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Defence. The working group has been composed of a wide-ranging group from among others. Norwegian Fire College, Health Directorate, Police Directorate, Voluntary Organisation Rescue Forum and Defence Staff. In the spring of 2015, the Ministry of Justice received the report ‘Facilities Study — Assessment of Regional Training and Competence Centres’. The report has been widely consulted. One of the recommendations of the working group was that the police should take a stronger and clearer role in cooperation in the future, and they outlined many alternative solutions for meeting future needs for joint exercises and competences. The Ministry of Justice then asked the Hearing Officers to consider the recommendations of the Working Group in a broader context and to provide input into alternative solutions. The Ministry therefore set up a wide-ranging working group in spring 2016 to review the consultation opinions and to advise on how to achieve adequate interoperability through development of competences and exercises between response actors at national, regional and local level. This working group was composed of people from among others. The main rescue centre in North Norway, the Defence Staff, the Police College, Fylkesmannen, Eigersund and Bodø municipalities, as well as Oslo University Hospital and Stavanger University Hospital. The mandate indicated that recommendations should be made in the light of the Possibility Study, Letters of Consultation and Opinions and should be seen in the context of the Recommendation Decision at the Innst. 306 S for 2014-2015 in Stortinget: ‘The size is in line with the further examination of the establishment of training centres in each police district and the content of such centres, if any.’ The working group gave its recommendation ‘Report from the Working Group on the Follow-up of the Possibility Study’ to the Ministry of Justice in December 2016. The proposals will now be assessed in consultation with the ministry concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2363	When I go to the Justice and Defence Department's website and look at the follow-up after 22 July, there is one example. cooperation between response actors as one point, and a number of actions are listed. In this context, it is quite clear that cooperation between police and defence has been given priority for the time being, and that action has been taken in particular in the area of police and defence, while the 22nd July Commission points to the non-cooperating departments on 22 July, that there must be a stronger focus on interaction between all emergency situations, and that is what these training centres pointed to in the 22nd July Commission. Does the Minister recognise this need?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2368	I see absolutely the need, and I also see that the mandate is in place. After the proposals have been evaluated in consultation with the department concerned, I will give my final assessment of the case. When I had the long review of the flow of time, it was just to illustrate the point that there has been a thorough, proper handling of this matter, which will turn into a final assessment. This is not a left-hand job, it has to be done in a proper and proper way. We're looking for knowledge, and we're doing the best we can by approaching it in consultation with a wide range of professional bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2373	I definitely recognize that you're going to do things like this in a thorough manner, and it also seems that you've done things like that. But time goes on, and there's no doubt about the need for common exercises between emergency situations. In the areas of Defense in Rygge, Eastfold, the police are practicing, and everything is in place for the other emergency situations to be practiced there with the police. There is one matter that we from Eastfold have raised every year in the budget, and I wonder: will the Minister now take an initiative to establish such a training centre on Rygge – as a pilot and as a follow-up to all these investigations to which the Minister refers?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2378	I guess the representative understands that I can't stand and promise it here and now, but I think of it as a recording that I take with me, of course, further in the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2387	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice and Security the following questions: ‘When police in Oslo and elsewhere are working to prevent young people from being recruited to radicalised networks and criminal gangs, they experience that a sparse interpretation of child protection, nav, school and other services creates problems. I addressed this with the Minister of Justice in the Questionnaire on 4 February 2015. In the positive response, the ‘total concrete change work’ was announced, among others. a supervisor and that you would look at an adjustment of the legal framework and come back to Stortinget. What has been done to follow up this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2396	As the Minister for Justice and Security mentioned during the Question Time on 4 February 2015, the government has addressed this issue in our action plan ‘A good childhood is dying, Action plan to combat violence and sexual abuse against children and young people [[2014-2017]] The work relating to administrative confidentiality and disclosure obligations shall be followed up, see measures No. 14th @item: inlistbox The aim is to arrive at a clear understanding that can replace the existing supervisor and, where appropriate, to lead to changes to the applicable provisions. That action, as also mentioned at the time, will be very relevant also in combating radicalisation and recruitment to extreme environments. It has now been decided to develop a cross-sectoral, practical and authoritative guide to provide a common understanding of administrative confidentiality and information exchange legislation and how this is to be practised. A particularly important element in this work is to be clearly established when there is an obligation or right to provide information to the police or supervisory authorities. I also refer here to what the Minister of Justice and Security said in 2015, that it is often not known what information the legislation actually opens for exchange, and therefore there is not enough information shared with other agencies and bodies, even if the legislation opens up. An important element with the supervisor is therefore to make legislation more widely known, perhaps especially among the external agencies of the administration. It is very important to provide a clear understanding of the legislation and to ensure that this is both made known and followed up in practice. Close contact with the outer floors will also be central during this follow-up for this reason. On 23 October 2015, the Administrative Law Committee was appointed by the King of State Council. The Committee shall carry out an overall revision of the Administrative Act, which gives the basic rules on administrative confidentiality. In drawing up the mandate of the sample, specific attention was paid to the issues raised by the representative of Bohemia in 2015. I don't have to quote the entire mandate, it's comprehensive. The committee shall deliver its opinion by 1 February 2019. I believe that the government in both the short and longer term has addressed the issue of professional secrecy, disclosure obligations and information rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2407	I thank you for your answer. This is a very important point, because I feel at close range that we are concerned about reaching out to those who are really involved in preventing radicalisation and recruitment to terrorist networks. We can invite anyone who is motivated, to fine conferences, to create action plans and everything like that. But if we don't manage to work operationally and figure out which young people we're going to make an effort to do, there's going to be a lot of general work and little that can seem completely concrete. This is serious. Now it's been two years since I brought this up in Stortinget. Then the Council of State said that he was doing a concrete change work at this point and mentioned a supervisor, which the Council of State now mentions. It's been two years, and this is serious. Anytime, unfortunately, something can happen, and someone comes out into this danger zone. I'd like to ask if the Council of State agrees that it's urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2414	It's always better that things go faster than that they go slower. I want to take a closer look at this matter and find out how it is. Of course, I agree with the motive, and that is the very best thing. I can't give any time here and now for when things are ready, but I can promise that I will investigate it and see what I can do to get the guidance faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2419	I thank you for the additional response and would also like to show that I have now, most recently in the last few weeks, been contacted and contacted by various parts of the police who say that there is a very different perception of how this should be understood when talking to the child protection system in one or other of the metropolitan areas of Oslo or in one or other of the municipalities of the country. This also applies to the Nav offices, it may apply to schools, etc. They see this differently, and it's a big problem if you can talk well to someone, but not to others. You have meetings and talk about a problem, but you just talk in general. The police have experienced being called up afterwards by someone who has attended a meeting, and then they have been told what it really was about. I just want to say to the legal work you have to go into, that the formulations, as they are now in the three laws that are being affected, are so special and precise that they can be interpreted very quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2426	I understand Mr Bøhler's commitment to this matter. If what he says and says he himself has experienced, is representative, I think it is alarming and gives even greater reason to look into the matter, quickly. I think we should also assume that this is a large and comprehensive piece of legislation, which therefore, naturally, takes time and is legally challenging. Our intentions are that we should be able to deliver on this as quickly as practical things can be done, but of course within the professional qualities that we also need to maintain.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2434	‘In an intervention on the Islamic website Document.no, a FrP politician warns against multicultural society and calls for the creation of organised civil protection: armed guards or a semi-military force under police. What does the Council of State think of this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2441	Let me be clear: the Police Act confirms that it is the State that will provide the police service that Norway needs. It is the Police and Lena's seat that are to do this work. It is the police who are to provide peace and security in Norway, not civil protection. This is a fundamental principle of the rule of law and is, of course, something I use in my exercise of office – also on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2446	It is gratifying that the Minister of Justice takes such a clear position against civil protection, especially because party traps have previously supported civil protection-like groups, such as the former. Odin's soldiers. The article I referred to is written by Kent Andersen, a profiled member of the Progress Party, and says something about the premises on which the debate is taking place, and about the human view on which the proposals are being promoted. If the Minister of Justice does not share the view of setting up semi-military groups or civil protection, former PD Amundsen has used every opportunity to promote the same problem description, namely a Europe in total chaos because Islam is in the process of taking over, followed by claims that asylum seekers are rape offenders, and proposals for DNA registration of asylum seekers. These are extreme conspiracies, and I wonder if Minister of Justice Amundsen takes a different view of human rights and equivalency than the former representative of the Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2455	I think you should be a little careful with how you choose to put your words when you refer to earlier so-called quotations. I base – and have always laid the foundations of my political life – on the fundamentality of the rule of law and will be fundamental in Norway. Civil protection is no solution, and if that is the case, you have to fight it. What is very important, on the other hand, is that we have a high-quality police force that creates security for all Norwegian citizens. We have that in Norway. It shows the trust survey, and we see that from the quality of the police's work. With the near-police reform, we make the police even better able to deliver good police services. This is not a real issue in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2464	When centralisation is close, it will also be a clear challenge to describe how a party trap can have as extreme a view as the text to which it refers, and thus, a large part of the article appears to have been written by the former depositor Amundsen himself, with the exception of the section on civil protection – in the name of justice and sincerity. But when profiled members of a government party call for violent government groupings because they are needed to control Muslims, it is serious. I then wonder how Minister of Justice Amundsen will ensure that the country's minorities have confidence – and experience – in their legal security when we see these kinds of attitudes from the Minister of Justice's own party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2471	Another important principle, the foundation, for Norway is that we also have freedom of expression. That means you have a lot of different opinions -- we actually think it's good that it's open that people can have different opinions. I have no interest in going in and analysing individual statements, writings, online or elsewhere that members of the Progress Party or others had to join. It's their excellent right to bring it. I also want to be a strong defender of freedom of expression, just as I am a strong defender of the state monopoly on using power. Let's focus on what the representative originally asked questions about, which is actually about the fact that civil protection is not acceptable. There's nothing I or anyone else in the government will talk about; it's just not a topic at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2481	I would like to ask the following questions: ‘In the January 20 A magazine, the head of the Crisis Centre Secretariat, Tove Smaadahl, says, ‘Women who live in fear of their lives and have the highest level of protection experience the threater persecuting them and finding them even if they live on code 6.’ 476 lives on code 6. At the same time, we know that one in four killings are partner drops. What concrete action will the Council of State take to strengthen the safety of people living in Code 6?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2490	I am pleased that the situation of victims of violence who experience threatening, dangerous behaviour from their present or former partners is being explored. This is a group of people who live with sustained fear and who have a great need for protective measures. Local police have a number of tools to protect vulnerable people. The choice of instruments must be based on a threat assessment in the specific case. Mobile violence alarm, electronic control, relocation, restraining, patrolling and protecting personal data in the People's Register, also known as code 6 and code 7, are among these. In 2012, the police, at Kripos, took over the authority to decide the address bar, so-called code 6. They took it from the Tax Directorate. The background to this decision was that the police, vulnerable persons, research reports, crisis centres, non-governmental organisations and others had experienced and given feedback over the years that the safeguard measure did not function satisfactorily. In cooperation with the police districts, Kripos has done a lot to further develop address barriers as protective measures. These include: establish common policies and procedures for the processing and issuing of address barriers, developed a national database listing all code 6 cases and established a national contact point for requests dealing with address barriers. In addition, a professional network of participants from all police departments is established. The Network identifies challenges and potential for improvement for safeguard measures and implements annual meetings. In the context of the implementation of the close police reform, a new function will be established in the police districts. In concrete terms, this function will have an overview and control of the threat operator, implement the safeguard measures and meet the security and security needs of the exposed person. Any form of protection imposes limits on the quality of life of the person exposed to the threats. The more stringent police action is, the more restrictions. The measures taken should therefore be as mild as possible, while at the same time ensuring the necessary protection. The police experience is that you need to have a close follow-up and sew together an individual package for each threatened person or family, in cooperation with the municipality, Nav, crisis centres and possibly others.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2505	I thank you for your answer. There are now several schemes — to which the Council of State also refers — that can be implemented to protect those who are subjected to violence. We're talking about codes 6 and 7. Another system – which was little in mind by the Council of State – is the reverse alarm of violence. Since the scheme was introduced in 2013, as of 1 January 2017, there have been only nine cases in which the perpetrator has been convicted, according to figures from the Police Directorate. What will the Council of State do in a concrete way to ensure that the scheme is applied to a greater extent than at present?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2514	I share the representative's view that a more extensive use of the reverse-violent alarm system could also remedy the situation of the vulnerable. It is because the introduction of this system is bilateral. On the one hand, it is provided that the use of a reverse violence alarm for persons convicted of a breach of the contact ban will improve the safety of those who are exposed to violence and threats. At the same time – on the other hand – the intention is that the burden of the threat situation be shifted from victim to offender, by being the perpetrator of violence and threats, which are required to bear the alert unit and prevented from moving freely. I have been informed by the Police Directorate that as of 1 January 2017, there was a claim for a reverse violent alarm in 14 cases. In eight of these cases, there is a final judgment. Both the Riksadvokat and the Police Directorate have informed about the system of police district management. The technical solutions, the legal issues and the experience of reverse violence alerts have been presented several times in police districts, victim coordinator, family violence investigators and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2521	I believe the Council of State and I agree that it is important to take care of those who are subjected to violence. Are there other measures that the Council of State sees for itself, which can either be put in place to ensure that they become even safer, or can be put in place against the perpetrator of violence? Does the Council of States consider other measures, which we have not implemented at present, but which we can think of as being relevant?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2526	No, I can't come up with any new measures on the stand. But, of course, I am open to good perceptions about actions that protect the person who is under threat, and therefore does not prevent him from having a good quality of life, without having threats hanging over him – while the burden is actually on the person who poses threats. All of these suggestions I want to take with me, and I'm very open to that kind of input. Then I am also concerned that we are further involved in the reverse alarm of violence, ensuring that information on this is available, so that it is also used more, because I absolutely share the representative's view, that it is a very good measure and that it should be used to a much greater extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2533	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-01.ana.ud148e2547	There is no record. Unless any of the two present wish to speak, the meeting may be suspended. - The meeting's been cancelled.
