ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-09.ana.ud416e90	In accordance with the Constitution, the King will give this message to the Norwegian State and Government in the run-up to the last message. The economic growth in Norway is on its way up. Also in the South and West there are now signs that the decline is behind us. Nevertheless, the Norwegian economy is still affected by the fall in the oil price. GDP for mainland Norway increased by 1.0 pst. in 2016. The value creation in the petroleum sector was 13 pst. of Norway’s GDP in 2016, and the country’s net cash flow from oil business was 125 billion. kr. Government pension funds had a combined market value at the end of the first half of 2017 of 8 238 billion. kr, an increase of 519 billion. kr from the start of 2017. The economic policy that we have pursued gives strong impetus to the Norwegian economy. Norway Bank has lowered its interest rate to a high level. At the beginning of September, the Norwegian krona was 11 pst. weaker than before the oil price drop. Together with a moderate payroll, it is more competitive. The 2017 budget makes a significant contribution to raising demand in the mainland economy. It attracts activity and counteracts unemployment. The registered unemployment rate was 2.6 pst. in September 2017, versus 3.0 pst. in September of the previous year. The unemployment rate, measured by the SSB labour force survey, was 4.2 pst in July, compared with 5.0 pst. in July 2016. The government has taken a number of initiatives to increase value creation, more jobs and a serious job life. In order to qualify unemployed people, the government has increased the level of intervention. The government has launched a new nationwide youth effort in 2017. Furthermore, the government strengthens the fight against crime at work through joint efforts by the authorities, cooperation with the social partners and new measures in the revised strategy against crime at work. Last year, the requirements for centrally approved enterprises were reinforced in accordance with the building axis regulations. The government has sent out a proposal for changes to work environment laws, including: proposals for clarification of fixed additions and clearer frameworks around labour hire. The implementation of tax reform has continued. The tax rate on general income has been reduced to 24 pst. in 2017. The government strengthens an active industrial policy with strategies and measures for marine industries, industry, bioeconomy, travel and through the broad systems of the instrument. The annual savings for business of measures implemented in the period 2011–2017 are now well over 15 billion. kr, in line with the objectives of the government. Norway is the second largest exporter of seafood in the world. In 2016, seafood was exported from Norway to a value of 91.6 billion. kr. In 2016, the Ministry of Oil and Energy accepted development plans for five new oil and gas fields, the highest number since 2012. The government has worked actively to preserve and strengthen the WTO rules-based trading system. The foreign policy landscape is still demanding. Cooperation in the UN, NATO, with the EU and with neighbouring countries is crucial to ensure the progress of democracy, human rights and trade. The government has provided major messages on development policy and choices in foreign policy. The Government has continued its efforts in the Norwegian coalition against ISIL and the contribution to NATO's operation in Afghanistan. Norway has continued to support the UN peace operations in the Middle East, South Sudan and Mali. We don't see any direct military threat to Norway. Our country is ready to put NATO in a better position to solve its problems, among other things. by participating in NATO's strengthened presence in Eastern Europe. The relationship between Russia and the West is still demanding. At the same time, the government attaches importance to practical cooperation and dialogue with Russia. Through the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers, Norway is working to ensure that the Nordic region is the best integrated region in the world, especially in areas such as energy, climate, environment and digitalisation. In 2017, Norway shared as a guest country in G20. Questionnaires from the G20 Summit support Norwegian priorities for funding education and action against epidemics. The relationship between China and Norway has been normalized. It provides new opportunities for cooperation. Negotiations on a free trade agreement have been resumed. The government has initiated dialogue with the EU and the United Kingdom to achieve the best possible cooperation with the United Kingdom when it leaves the Union. The government has started the work of following the UN resource targets. In November, the European Parliament adopted a new and ambitious long-term plan for the defence sector, which will help to strengthen defence capabilities in the coming years. The government is also working on a specific distribution linked to the further development of rural power. The recommendations for this feature will be submitted to Size within a short period of time. The government has strengthened its efforts to secure society through a better legal basis on issues related to the prevention of espionage, sabotage and terror. The government has, among other things, propose a whole new insurance law, national security law. Work on securing particularly important objects has been strengthened. In June, the government issued a new instruction on the defence assistance to the police. In June, the government issued a big message on ICT security. The government will include: strengthen the national capability to detect and manage digital attacks. The pre-projecting of the National Police Emergency Response Centre has now been completed. As soon as the Storting joins the plans, the Centre will be ready in 2020. For 2016, the financial result for the local government sector was better at a net operating surplus of 4,2 pst. During the period, it is agreed that 121 municipalities merge into 47 new municipalities. It is also a commitment to a regional reform that today's 19 counties turn to 11. In February, the government, together with the Left, presented a plan for the location of state workplaces. During this period, it is agreed to move out and establish more than 700 government jobs outside the Oslo region. Several initiatives have been taken to make the country more effective, through simplification, new digital solutions and efficiency requirements. The government has decided a new framework plan for the content and tasks of the kindergarten. In addition, the government has proposed a statutory obligation for the schools to provide intensive training for the 1st to 4th stage pupils who struggle with reading, writing and accounting. The government follows the long-term plan for research and higher education. In total, R & D over the state budget in 2017 corresponds to some of the expected GDP of 1.05 pst. The Norwegian Church was converted into an independent legal entity from 1 January 2017. The employer’s responsibility for the former church was transferred to the church legal entity. The government has decided to move the management of museum-disciplinary tasks in Norwegian Cultural Councils from Oslo to Bodø. In 2016, 15 300 refugees, more than ever before, were resident in 411 Norwegian municipalities. 1,600 of these were single minors. The government has been working to implement the 69 measures in the integration message. This includes: establish integration facilities and start up with the early identification of competences and strengthen the correctness of the work of the qualification measures. As of 1 March 2017, the entire population has received a core journal. The availability of critical information can save lives in acute events. About 1.9 million patients received health care in somatic hospitals in 2016 – 1.9 pst. more than one year earlier. The average waiting time in the specialist clinic was 60 days in 2016 – 9 fewer than in the previous year. In October 2016, the government presented to the Stortinget an escalation plan against violence and assault. In March 2017, the government presented a child protection reform with greater municipal responsibility. The reform must include: contribute to a stronger priority for prevention and services that are better adapted to each individual. In June, the Stortinget joined the government's proposal for a common law on equality and discrimination. An action plan has been presented to address negative social control, coerciveness and gender mutilation and a strategy against hateful expressions. The government follows the strategy for children living in poverty. Several children and young people participate in holiday and leisure activities. The Government's proposal to extend the entitlement to care allowance for sick children is adopted and entered into force on 1 October 2017. The government has continued its work on a more competitive Norwegian agriculture, and through agricultural policy, the basis for increased food production throughout the country is strengthened. In April, the government presented the National Transport Plan Report 2018–2029, which sets out to make a significant contribution to transport. The reforms launched in the road and rail sectors contribute to a modern and efficient transport system. Increased road safety is a priority. In spring 2017, the government introduced a climate law to promote the implementation of Norway’s climate targets. In June, the government issued a big message on how Norway can meet a emissions budget for the period 2021–2030, which we will receive in cooperation with the EU. The government has announced a 150 million aid program. kr to reduce the volume of microplastics and navigability at sea. In June this year, the government issued a big message on waste policy and the circular economy, focusing on increased reuse and recycling. The current external balance surplus was 121 billion. SEK in 2016, at least SEK 128 billion. kr from 2015. The average wage growth from 2015 to 2016 was 1.7 pst. Wages and salaries increase by less than consumption prices, and real wages fall by 1.8 pst. last year. This year's wage-fixed trend is in the direction of a slightly higher wage growth. Consumer prices were 2.2 pst. higher in January to July this year than at the same time last year. The pursuit of the objectives of the broad tax base tax reform and lower tax rates have continued. The tax rate on general income has been reduced by an additional one percentage point to 24 pst. in 2017. A major effort has been made to follow up the OECD/G20 work to prevent undermining of tax bases and transfer of surplus – Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, BEPS. Sickness absence has been relatively stable in recent years, and the annual average is the lowest since the IA agreement was concluded. One of the objectives of the IA agreement is to reduce sick leave by 20 pst. from 2001. The sick absence in the second quarter of 2017 was 11.9 p.m. lower than in the second quarter of 2001, adjusted for seasonal variations. There are considerable differences between developments and the level of absenteeism among others. States and sectors. From 1st quarter 2014 to 1st quarter 2017, sick leave has increased most in Rogaland, which is probably due to a weaker labour market in the county. Local government is still the sector with the highest clear level of absenteeism, while the private sector and public enterprises have the lowest level of absenteeism. The population in Norway continued to grow in 2016, but at a lower rate than in the years before. Net immigration went down somewhat last year, but is still at a high level. In 2016, the population increased by well 44,000 people, and slightly below 60 pst. come from net immigration. After a high growth in housing prices over the last year, prices have fallen in the last months. The decline in prices has been strongest in Oslo. For the country as a whole, prices were on average 3.1 pst. higher in August this year than in August last year. The supply of housing has increased in the last few months, especially in Oslo. The strong trend in housing prices in the last few years and high household debt increases the risk of financial imbalances in the Norwegian economy. The government establishes before the new year a new temporary regulation for residential loans that will apply until summer 2018. It is a forwarding and tightening of the previous regulation. The government has been working to create good contact with the new administration in the United States. In this work, our priorities are fundamental foreign policy interests, such as security, free trade and climate policy. The Government is working to maintain the Arctic as a peaceful and stable region. The member countries of the Arctic Council agreed in May to conclude an agreement to facilitate cooperation on Arctic research. Norway is also a driver of increased maritime safety in the Arctic. The Polar Code, a global regulatory framework for ships in polar waters, came into force on 1 January 2017. The government wants to have a good relationship with Russia and has continued a broad cooperation, not least in the north. It applies in areas such as fisheries, nuclear safety, the environment and people-to-people cooperation. Most of the two-sided cooperation works well, although Russia's international law-enforcement behaviour in Ukraine still characterises the relationship between Russia and Western countries. EEA funds are an important European policy tool and contribute to social and economic cohesion. Framework agreements have been concluded with seven of the fifteen beneficiary countries. The Government aims to complete the remaining eight agreements before the end of the year. The main priorities of development policy will be confirmed in the key communication on joint responsibility for the common future: education, health, business development and job creation, climate, environment and sustainable energy, humanitarian aid, equality, human rights and the fight against corruption. In addition to Norway's leading international role in education, we continue to focus on health in developing countries. Through participation in the G20 in 2017, Norway is involved in increasing international attention to these areas. The ‘Fish for Development’ programme is being extended to several countries, and in March the most advanced research vessel in the world was ‘Dr. Fridtjof Nansen’, seagoing. With a total contribution of 10 billion. For the period 2016-2019, Norway is one of the largest donor countries in terms of relieving nakedness as a result of the war in Syria. The government has added support to sexual and reproductive rights internationally and to the fight against sexualised conflict. The government is a driver to ensure that humanitarian law is respected and that humanitarian actors have access to help and protect those who need it the most. Norway's humanitarian budget has increased by about 50 pst. Since 2013 and for the first time in over 5 billion. kr. Norway has worked actively to support the reform initiative of the UN Secretary-General and to strengthen the role of the United Nations in conflict prevention. The government has provided a major maritime policy message. In the United Nations Environment Assembly, Norway has a leading role to play in stepping up efforts to combat marine pollution. The government is working concretely and objectively to achieve a value without nuclear weapons, in line with the 2016 Joint Storing Decision, which places particular emphasis on the verification of nuclear disarmament. Several complicated consular matters have found their solution in 2017. The government has launched a revision of the Intelligence Act to assess whether the laws of today's threat image and a digitalised society provide the necessary legal basis for the tasks the Intelligence Service has been set to perform. NATO is still taking a major responsibility for stability and capacity building in the vicinity of the alliance. Norway is an active driver for adapting NATO's command structure to change today's security policy situation, enabling NATO to solve the most demanding tasks in the maritime domain. The current security policy situation has led to closer cooperation between the Nordic countries within the framework of Nordic defence cooperation, NORDEFCO. The government has facilitated increased allied training and training in Norway and increased cooperation between allies and Norwegian forces. In April, the government presented a proposal to the Stortinget to purchase new submarines within a cost framework of 41 billion. kr. A strategic cooperation with Germany has been initiated, including: others will be commissioned by a number of companies in Norway, which will promote the development of high-tech competences and the export potential of a Norwegian developed product. Halfway out in 2017, Norway has received the seventh of the new F-35 fighter planes. The next three fighter planes are delivered directly to the fighter base at Ørland autumn 2017. Education reform is under way in defence. General protection obligations have been introduced in the Defence. The system has led to a significant increase in the number of female guardians. The wage settlement in 2017 was an intermediate settlement. Contract audits have essentially been solved through negotiations and mediation. The number of conflicts has been low. Job seekers under 30 years of age who have been unemployed for eight weeks and are still not in work, education or other activity shall be provided with individualised follow-up from the labour and welfare seat. Youth action was further strengthened by several Nav follow-up resources in the treatment of the revised national budget. The government has strengthened its efforts to speed up the work of more immigrants with a refugee background. This is done, among other things, by increasing the correctness of the introduction programme for newly arrived immigrants and the creation of a fast track in working life for those who have requested skills. The size has agreed to increase the minimum pension level for single age pensioners by NOK 4000 from 1 September 2017. In the context of the management of the revised national budget 2017, Stortinget decided to increase the minimum pension for married and co-operative pensioners by NOK 1000 from 1 September 2017. The government has submitted a big message on the export of Norwegian data from the population. The message contains a number of new actions that will reduce the chances of including extras from the population out of the country. On 8 June, on a proposal from the Government, the Stortinget adopted several amendments to the Code on Clearance of Work. The aim is for more people to be able to participate in work through a shorter, tighter follow-up and faster clarification of job opportunities for the beneficiaries. Stortingsmelda Resilient cities and strong districts were handled in the Stortinget in spring 2017. The communication aims to promote growth and equal living conditions, sustainable land and transport systems and good cities and agglomerations throughout the country, and provides direction for policy adaptation at regional and local level. In our time, the government introduced a new north-eastern strategy in which foreign and domestic policies are seen in context. In order to strengthen cooperation on development in the north, the government has established Regional Northern Space Forums as a permanent dialogue venue between state and region. The majority has accepted the government's proposal for a new law on ownership sections. The home bank digitizes the systems to make it easier to search for deposits and loans. Both the municipalities and the House Bank save time. In the law on the House Bank, the Storting decided on our changes that relate to the processing of personal data. These changes allow you to get more out of the winning potential of the new digital solutions. The annual EU digitisation index shows that Norway is no. 2 in Europe on digitisation. The use of public digital services is increasing dramatically. In 2016, there were 90 million logins in the ID port. The government, in cooperation with KS, has taken initiatives to put municipal guidance services in place in all municipalities in the country, so that those who do not have experience in using the Internet and digital tools can get started. In April, the government hosted a Nordic-Baltic Ministerial Conference and Ministerial Meeting on Digitalisation. As a result of this meeting, a dedicated ad hoc Council of Ministers for Digitalisation has been established under the Nordic Council of Ministers. The reduction and elimination of time thieves in the administration is an important part of the efficiency of the public sector and was expanded in 2016 from government to municipal sector. The Storting has accepted the government's proposal for a new law for those added to the state. The law passes some rules, but is modernized and simplified compared to the previous law and is approximating and harmonised with the rules of the work environment law. In 2017, on the basis of government proposals, several important legislative simplifications have been adopted, leading to more efficient planning processes, simpler regulation and increased local space for action. Electronic asset clearing was established in April 2017 and will streamline the turnover of ownership. The value of the state's direct ownership of the Oslo Stock Exchange was 596 billion. kr at the end of 2016. The state's share of the book value of non-listed companies in which the state has commercial objectives with ownership was 118 billion. kr. For the 2016 accounting year, the state receives about 33 billion. kr in dividends from the companies in which the country has a direct ownership interest, over 3 billion. kr more than for 2015. The government has established a dedicated interaction forum with the industry to make visible and exploit the opportunities associated with digitisation. In March, the government issued a big message on the industry framework. The communication outlines the government's policy for a greener, smarter and more innovative Norwegian industry. Norway has a good advantage when it comes to exploiting the opportunities in the sea. In February 2017, the government presented a holistic maritime strategy. The strategy includes measures to contribute to the further development of the established industries of petroleum, maritime industry and seafood and to the emergence of new marine industries. The government brings up a matter of law on the dismissal of employees at sea. The promise was entered into force on 1 June 2017. The government has expanded the scope of employment of workers at sea. The cod stock in the Barents Sea is still at a high level. Long-term cooperation between the coastal states of Norway and Russia and good climatic conditions are behind the fact that we have the largest cod population in the world. Other stocks are also well managed, and the quotas are mostly large. The fight against fishing crime and illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is a high priority of the government, including in an international context. In June 2017, the Government raised quota cases for coastal fishing fleets with a hail length of more than 11 metres. The government has put in place a new capacity-enhancing system in the salmon and aure breeding industry. The government has introduced development concessions for salmon and aure breeding to facilitate the development of new technologies and to realise the vision of significant growth in the farming industry. In the winter of 2016, the government presented a bioeconomy strategy. The strategy shall contribute to increased value creation, new jobs and reduced greenhouse gas emissions. The government has put forward a strategy for export and internationalisation to help Norwegian enterprises have good and competitive framework conditions. Through EFTA, we have started negotiations on a free trade agreement with the South American free trade cooperation Mercosur. Norway has ratified two new free trade agreements with Georgia and the Philippines in the last year. On 1 April 2017, the competition notice was created in Bergen, which was responsible for handling all decisions under the Competition Act. The government has appointed a public selection to assess business access to capital. The selection shall deliver its report by 1 March 2018. In March 2017, the government presented a separate announcement on Norwegian travel life. In 2016, oil production increased slightly for the third consecutive year. Gas production in 2016 was at about the same level as in 2015, a total of 125 billion. Sm3. There are 83 fields in production, and the additional 12 fields are under construction. The investment grant for 2017 is close to 125 billion. kr and is at a high level in the historical perspective. The level of activity has fallen less than the fall in the level of investment would occur. Industry has taken the necessary steps to reduce costs and become more competitive. Many efficiency measures were launched before the oil price began to fall. The government continues to maintain a high level of allocation of attractive new search areas. In the context of the allocation of exploitation rights in pre-defined areas, TFO 2016, 56 exploitation rights were granted to 29 companies. The concession round this year in the pre-defined areas, TFO 2017, was released in May. 24th concession round was held in June. In 2016, a new production record was recorded in the Norwegian power supply with 149 TWh, 98 pst. were produced in water and wind power plants. The Norwegian electricity supply, after Iceland, had the highest renewable share and the lowest emissions in Europe. Net exports were at 17 TWh or about 4 billion. kr. The completion of installations and investments in new renewable power generation increased from 2015 to 2016. Norway is within a period of construction of more renewable power generation installations than over 25 years. Norway and Sweden have a single market for electricity certificates in support of new renewable energy production. From the Norwegian side, no new targets shall be set for the electrical certificate system after 2021, while Sweden has introduced a target of an additional 18 TWh by 2030. In spring 2017, there was a full agreement with Sweden on an amendment agreement that takes full care of Norwegian interests. The size has accepted a change to the law on electricity certificates. In the revised budget, 20 million were granted. to measures to increase safety against snowmobiles on Svalbard. For 2017, there is a total of 390 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure incurred by the Commission in connection with the implementation of the budget of the Norwegian Waterways and Energy Directorate. In the spring of 2017, the size decided on proposals from the government on changes to the concession law for hydropower. The legislative changes follow the goal of simplification in the law from 1917. In the spring of 2017, the government adopted proposals for changes in water resource laws and soil laws. The changes in the Water Resource Act mean that groundwater regulation is equal to the regulation of other watercourse measures and ensure a sound management of groundwater resources. At the same time, all authority for the management of smaller hydroelectric power stations is transferred to the local population elected level. The change in soil laws implies a simplified management of energy and watercourse measures on agricultural land. The third energy market package was incorporated into the EEA Agreement by decision of the EEA Committee in May 2017. The decision has been taken with the assent of the Stortinget. In 2017, the government strengthened the development of environmentally friendly and cost-effective technologies for the oil and gas industry by increasing the budget for the DEMO 2000 programme by 67 million. kr. Similarly, the government has strengthened technology development and innovation related to renewable energy sources by increasing the budget of the ENERGYIX programme by 33 million. kr. The government has continued its work with full scale CO 2 handling. It is also decided to extend the deployment of the Technology Centre for CO 2 capture at Mongstad, initially until August 2020. The government has put forward a hearing proposal for a new national norm for adding, proposals for tightening educational standards and proposals for child care owners to cooperate on transition from kindergarten to school and the SFO. The government has seen to it that several children have access to children's playgrounds, through good moderation arrangements, and extended the right to space. From 1 August 2017, children who are one-year-old in November were given the right place before the end of November. The size has joined the renewal of the subject in the school that was reported in Meld. St. 28 for 2015–2016, Facts – Depression – Understanding: A renewal of the Knowledge promise, cf. Inner. 19 S for 2016-2017. All primary and continuing training subjects shall be renewed. Overarching part-values and principle of initial training was established by Royal Resolution 1 September 2017. Overarching part of the curriculum deepens the value base of the purpose paragraph of the Training Act and oversees the principle of initial training. In March 2017, the government presented Report. St. 21 for 2016–2017, Läärlyst – early school efforts and quality, marking the starting point for work to achieve a rise in early efforts. With the message, the government has introduced a new government funding model for school competence development, where municipalities themselves need to find out what they need to do to improve quality. The government allocates approximately 100 million. SEK to local school development in 2017. Municipalities falling below a lower school level will be provided with support and guidance to meet local needs and challenges. The government has extended the right to further training by allowing drop-outs to start up more quickly in higher education and by providing the right to further training for those who have a training abroad that is not recognised as a study or professional qualification in Norway. The government has started the Teacher's vow, which represents a historic commitment to further education for teachers and schoolteachers. A total of 6,000 teachers were offered further training in the autumn of 2017, about 380 more than last year. The majority agreed with the government's proposal for new rules on the school environment. There shall be zero tolerance against bullying, a clear and actionable duty of activity, and a simpler, faster and more effective complaint system for elephants and parents when the school does not tend to make it safe and safe for the students in the school. In exceptional cases, a periodic penalty payment shall be available against municipalities which do not comply with the State's decisions. The government started an experiment with programming as an option in the autumn of 2016. Interest was great, and many municipalities wanted to be with. The government opens in the autumn of 2017 so that all municipalities can offer optional programming during the trial period, and that the option will be permanent from 2019. Through the Real Science Strategy, 2015–2019, for kindergarten and basic education, the government will improve motivation, learning and results in real-life education. Realfachskommunar is a central tool, and in the autumn 2017 11 new municipalities start up as realfachskommunar. The government, in cooperation with the social partners, the Sametinget and the Adult Education Association, has developed a National Strategy on Competence Policy, launched in February 2017. The strategy is the first of its kind in Norway, and should give a common direction to the work of the strategy partners. New Act on the recognition of professional qualifications was adopted on 7 March 2017 and will apply on 1 January 2018. The law implements several measures that may increase the mobility of professionals in the regulated professions, including: is the case management simplified. In the spring of 2017, the size of the population has handled the growing message of culture for quality in higher education. Through the message process, universities and universities have been given more tools to develop an even better quality culture in higher education. In the spring of 2017, the Stortinget has handled the StoringsMessage on Ph.D. The government strengthens the trade unions through nearly 50 quality measures, and the promises for the development of the sector have been strengthened by 68 million. kr. In 2017, a new technology building for NTNU in Trondheim has been completed. The rehabilitation of large parts of the building mass at the Norwegian Sports School will be completed in the autumn of 2017, as well as further work will be done on completing several new buildings in the university and higher education sectors, among others. for the veterinary environment at Ås. The government and the cooperation parties at Stortinget have increased the rights to the construction of student housing. In 2017, there are pledged funds for 2,500 housing units. The government is continuing its efforts to strengthen the student economy. In spring 2017, the study support period was extended by one week for those taking full-time right-wing education or full-time vocational education. With the government implementing the first stage of the plan for the gradual introduction of 11 months of study aid to which the Stortinge joined last year. From 1 January 2017, the High School of Bergen, the High School of Stord/Haugesund and the Højskulen of Sogn and Fjordane were merged into the High School of the West. The Hedmark and Lillehammer peaks were merged into the Inland Higher School from the same date. At the same time, the University of Bergen and the School of Art in Bergen were merged. Thus, over the ageing period, 33 state institutions have merged to 21. In the summer of 2017, a national strategy for quality and cooperation in teacher education, Teacher Training, was presented in 2025. In 2017, the first students of the five-year master's programme in elementary school education were admitted, in line with the contents of the Teacher's Lift strategy from 2014. In March, the government presented Report. Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of The message is the first political document to go through the humanities field in Norway in a holistic way. It's worth about 70 million. to a commitment to the cultural and creative industries to strengthen the economic resilience of the cultural field. Among other things, the government has entrusted the Norwegian Cultural Council with the task of setting up an own office in Trondheim, Creative Norway. From 1 January 2017, the Norwegian Local Historical Institute was merged with the National Library. From the same time, the multilingual library was transferred from the Municipality of Oslo to the National Library. On the basis of the reports submitted, the government has concluded that it is preparing a rehabilitation of the National Theatre in Oslo. The Ministry of Culture has received the report from the Media Disaster Selection, where they propose a number of measures to meet the challenges in the media industry. The government will continue to work on the proposals in the report. The government has published a new agreement to ensure a commercial broadcasting service with its head office outside Oslo. The FM network is in progress, and we're going over to the DAB radio. The government has put forward a proposal for a new copyright law to provide a better balance with regard to the artists and users of copyright. After proposals from the government, Stortinget has decided to revoke the jury. Instead, the court shall sit with two judges and five judges. Legal certainty is improved because the right is now to justify the decision on the debt issue. The government has proposed to change the rules for when a lawbreaker cannot be punished because he/she has to be considered an unencumbered offender. The government has put forward a national strategy for coordinating repatriation after the imposition of penalties. Action in the strategy shall ensure that convictions are followed more closely and a better coordinated service provision following the implementation of penalties. Furthermore, the government has built new prison sites. Ullersmo Prison and Inner Eastfold Prison, Eidsberg Department, are rehabilitated and expanded. In 2017, the capacity for the implementation of penalties with electronic control has been expanded correspondingly with about 40 new places. After a bill from the government, people who are not allowed to build their house on the same site after a natural accident are entitled to damages for the land through fire insurance. The government is committed to digitising and modernising the courts. A total of 200 million is allowed. kr to ICT in courts since 2014. Increased use of modern communication technologies in debt collection and enforcement has been facilitated. Electronic object lighting was seen in the works on 18 April 2017. This will lead to large cost reductions for business and the public. The first of 16 new rescue helicopters were delivered in 2017. Helicopters shall be operated through a phase-in programme of Defense before the first helicopter is put into service during 2018. The implementation of the close police reform is continuing. The main organisational changes are now in place, and the development work in the future will be directed towards the content of the service provision, among others. professional development and learning, standardisation of work and compliance with quality requirements. In 2017, the government strengthened the promise to the State Children's House by 50 million. kr. In addition, in 2017, 60 million were paid. to strengthen research and deter violence and abuse against children. In 2017, 12 new victim care offices will be established, which will be located with the police in all police districts of the country. Over the period 2014-2017, the government has strengthened the PST by approximately $300 million. Important investments in the PST have been made by our bodyguard service, the strengthening of testing and acquisition capacity, ICT and security, new local and 35 new settings related to the work on the future war problem. A Joint Cyber Coordination Centre was opened on 31 March 2017. The centre shall strengthen its capability to counter and manage threats in the digital space, and shall also contribute to the analysis and decision-making bases of the governance. In the revised 2017 national budget, it was decided to invest in three new transport capacity police helicopters. They shall be delivered during 2019. This is a significant blow to today's police helicopter preparedness. The temporary internal border controls on ferries with traffic towards Sweden, Denmark and Germany have been carried out so far in 2017. The need for further forwarding of border controls is assessed against developments in the security situation. The number of registered asylum seekers in 2016 was the lowest since 1997. The government has received and sent a message from a selection that has looked at the long-term consequences of high immigration – NOW 2017: 2 Integration and trust. In 2016, the hospital had a positive result of about 3 billion. kr, which is something more than a year earlier. It was invested for 7.9 billion. kr in construction, equipment and ICT in health services. The target of 70 pst. by cancer patients included in a package trajectory, reached across the country in 2016. A new provision of health and care services law entered into force on 1 October 2017. The former gather and give clear responsibility to the municipality when it comes to those who have a particular burden of care. A new provision on the obligation for municipalities to ensure systematic medical review for patients in hospitals for which they are responsible, entered into force on 1 January 2017. As of 1 January 2017, asset ceiling 2 was automated, and physiotherapists are in the process of connecting to the Norwegian health network to send information on the properties and reimbursement requirements to Helfo. A new provision on the competence requirements for LAGs in the municipal health and care services came into force on 1 March 2017. The regulation requires that beers who take positions in the municipal health and care services should be specialists in general medicine or under specialisation. The government has submitted a proposal for changes to health legislation, including: the transfer of public dental care responsibilities from the county to the municipality and the legalisation of competence requirements in the municipal health and care services. The government will follow the escalating plan for the waste field with a total promise of more than 900 million. kr in 2016 and 2017. The government has presented a holistic strategy for mental health, 2017–2022. The strategy includes health promotion, prevention and curative perspectives and covers the public health area, services and research. The mental health of children and young people has gained special attention. The government has presented the National Action Plan for Better Dietary Management, 2017–2021, with the aim of improving diets especially among children, young people and the elderly and reducing social differences in diets, promoting healthy food and taking care of a sustainability perspective, while strengthening food, meal and diet work in health, care and social services. The Government has submitted proposals for a change to the Tobacco Injury Act which imposes obligations on undertakings operating the sale of tobacco products to consumers and wholesalers to register and to supervise the sale. The government has submitted proposals for changes to the Child Protection Act in order to strengthen the child’s perspective in law and increase legal certainty for children and parents. The government will continue to work on the proposals of the Child Protection Commission on a whole new child protection law. Family protection is plannedly strengthened and has been given a historic economic boost during this government period, with more than 128 million. kr, based on a total promise of approximately 370 million. kr in 2013. For 2017, Stortinget has added 38 million to family protection. kr. In June 2017, the government received the distribution from a selection that has gone through the way in which the public service provider handles matters where children and young people have been subjected to gross violence, sexual assault or serious care failure. The output has been sent on the listener. In September 2017, the government presented proposals on changes in child law and criminal law, etc. to improve the legal protection of children against violence and abuse. In March, the Children’s Family Selection, which assessed public transfers and services to families with children, presented its findings. The distribution has been sent on a wide public hearing with deadline 30 September 2017. The government's proposal to introduce a five-year butid requirement for a right to cash support is agreed by the Stortinget and entered into force on 1 July 2017. The Government's proposal for changes to the people's protection laws to strengthen the possibilities for fathers to keep their father's quota and to be with the child after a break in life is agreed and will enter into force on 1 September 2017. The government’s proposal for a new adoption law was adopted by the Stortinget in June 2017. The Government has submitted a Communication to the European Council on Agriculture focusing on increasing production, improving efficiency and strengthening competitiveness in order to meet future challenges. In addition, the government has submitted a communication to the Stortinget on reindeer management policy. It's been 25 years since the last time a report on reindeer operations was submitted. The Communication focuses on ecological sustainability and presents strategies and measures to better exploit its potential and potential in a rational and market-oriented way. Norway and the EU have agreed on an agreement to increase trade in agricultural products. The formal approval of the agreement remains. The government has put forward a strategy for tourism based on agricultural and reindeer resources. The strategy shows how agriculture and reindustry can be the provider of content for travel life and are part of a holistic tourism product. In April 2017, the government presented proposals to the Stortinget on several changes to the concession law, the law of the land and the law of the nodels. These changes strengthen private ownership and simplify agricultural ownership laws. In January 2017, the government addressed its proposals for measures for a competitive forest and wood industry. The government has a high priority for soil protection. Numbers from the municipalities show that about 6,000 deer of cultivated land were re-registered in 2016, which is a decrease of 5 pst. compared to 2015. The prion disease Chronic Wasting Disease, also known as pancreatic disease, is found in wildrein in the North Mountain. The disease is very serious for cervids, and it is decided to take out the herd of reindeer, in line with recommendations from among others. Scientific Committee on Food Safety. Transport activity at national transport level 2018–2029 is strong and represents 1064 billion. State resources and tolls during the planning period and will contribute to smarter, greener and safer transport in the future. New technology is an important tool for achieving the objective of a transport system that is safe and conducive to the transition to the low-carbon society. Road construction and maintenance activities are high. At the same time as the activity of the State Road Administration increased in 2016, the crew was reduced. Several installations have been opened for traffic. The opening of E6 Frya-Sjoa in Uppland has saved running time and increased road safety. The opening of the E18 Knapstad–Retet in Østfold and Akershus has given 6.3 km with four-field road in a new trajectory. Work is continuing on reforms in the road and rail sectors. The Railway Directorate and Bane NOR SF are in full operation. New Vegar AS has been operational since January 2016. Based on the developments that the company has seen, the company believes that the portfolio for which the company is responsible can be built up considerably faster than originally foreseen. The toll reform will help to make the most of what is demanded by tolls go to the destination, and it will be easy for drivers to settle separately. At the request of the major cities, the government in 2017 will facilitate the use of toll tariffs, including urban areas. varies according to the environmental properties of the various vehicles. A coordinated housing, land and transport policy is important in order to achieve the objectives of the government on the environment, climate and development. Urban environment agreements have been concluded for Trondheim and Oslo and Akershus. An urban development agreement has been negotiated between the State and the Oslo and Akershus area on the follow-up of the spatial commitments of the urban environment agreement concluded. For Bergen and Nord-Jären, urban growth agreements have been negotiated, covering both land use and transport measures. By means of the agreements, the State will finance 50 pst. of four municipal public infrastructure projects. In the national transport plan 2018-2029, priority is given during the planning period to the Fornebubanen in Oslo and Akershus, new metro tunnel in Oslo, the Urban Railway to the Füllingsdalen in Bergen, Metrobus step 1 in Trondheim and Bussveien on Nord-Jären. In the agreements, the parties commit themselves to cooperate in the development of high land use collective nodes, so that the most possible benefit is public transport, bicycles or goes to their daily activities. Work on increased road safety is a high priority. In 2016, 135 people died in road traffic. These are very low figures in European and global contexts. The preliminary accident figures for the first eight months of 2017 are at the same level as in 2015, which was the year with the lowest number of deaths since 1950. A new parking code for private and public parking companies took effect on 1 January 2017. From 2017, a temporary incentive scheme has been put in place to transfer goods from road to sea. In the spring of 2017, the government presented a big report on the activities of Avinor AS. The new contracts for the operation of regional scheduled flights in North Norway entered into force on 1 April 2017. Electronic communications services and networks are becoming increasingly important. At the same time, threats to ecosystems and services are increasing as a result of extreme weather, technical or human failures and criminal acts. From 1 July 2017, an operational environment for managing cyber events in the ecosystem sector, Ekom CERT, is fully operational. Private operators invested more than 10.7 billion. SEK in echonets and services in 2016. The government continues its efforts to simplify legislation and facilitate investment. Proposals for new excavators that will make it cheaper to build networks that can deliver fast and good services throughout the country have been listening. Furthermore, important frequency blocks have been assigned in the 900 MHz band, which ensures that mobile companies can provide good services to the inhabitants. The government announced in June an amendment prohibiting the use of mineral oil in households and commercial buildings from 2020. Norway has ratified this year the agreement to reduce the use of HFCs, hydrofluorocarbons. According to the United Nations Environment Programme, the agreement will contribute to the world avoiding up to 0.5 degrees Celsius heating by 2100. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has concluded an environmental agreement with 15 business organisations on the reduction of NO x emissions. Companies that sign up to the agreement do not pay the NO x fee in the period 2018-2025. In April 2017, the Government presented a major communication on the update of the Norwegian Sea Management Plan. The Communication discusses the different environmental conditions with particular emphasis on siphoning and microplastics, marine-based industry value creation and sustainable use measures. The government has dealt with all issues relating to living genetically modified organisms under genetic engineering laws approved under the EU's Postponement Directive. In March, the government launched a bill on the killing of wolves, and in June, predators were changed so that predators could deal with the issue of licensing large predators for more consideration than before. In December 2016, the government established two new national parks, Raet and Jomfruland. On June 21, 19 new forest reserves were protected. In 2017, the scheme ‘National Tours’ was created with a promise of 7.5 million. to strengthen the protection of nature and to establish good visitor management in areas with frequent visits and high value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-09.ana.ud416e519	received, on behalf of the Storting, the documents read and stated: Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness, co-representatives! The 162nd big thing that your Majesty has opened is the first thing in a new parliamentary term. Mye's stuck. The frameworks of political work are the same. The work follows tried and tested procedures and legislation, and the activities are governed by constitution and rules of procedure. Our political system is evolving in line with the will of the people from elections to elections. A living democracy must be in line with its time, and at a time of strong change it is important to be open and responsive to renewal. The new composition of the big business gave way to 66 newly elected big business representatives, who look forward to taking on their elected work. Never before have as many as 69 women been elected to the Stortinget, and for the first time there are as many as nine parties represented in the Norwegian National Assembly. For many of the re-elected representatives, the new ageing period will bring with it new fields of work, new committees and new positions. A combination of continuity and change ensures the stability and soundness of the democratic system. We do meet at the Storting in dramatic times for the world. The security policy situation is uncertain, and democracy is under pressure in many places. It reminds us that democracy is not a matter of course, but something that needs to be built and maintained over time. The size shall be open and accessible. The proximity of representatives and voters is important. This applies both to the work here in the house and in our home districts. In a democracy, political work must take place in interaction and dialogue with society around us. It also requires that we keep up with a living and truthful public conversation. That recognition is important to take on board if we are to maintain trust between us and maintain the broad participation on which democracy depends. It is gratifying that election participation in major elections over several periods has remained stable at a relatively high level, even though as elected representatives we always have to put forth effort to make it even bigger. The conclusion of the election suggests that the voters have not lost sight of what the election is about, namely what kind of society we want, how it should be set up, and who should be given the power to rule it. Policy depends on contradictions of opinion and struggle. However, it may not deal only with confrontations between opposition and position. The continued confidence of the electors also depends on the ability of the Stortinge to agree on broadly anchored, long-term and sustainable solutions that safeguard the well-being of the people over time. With these words, and in the assurance that all the elected representatives in this room will do their utmost to solve the many and great problems ahead of us, we gather on the old desire: God preserve the King and the homeland!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-09.ana.ud416e548	The President will propose that the speech of His Majesty the King and the report on the state and government of the kingdom be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
