ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e42	The representative Ingrid Hegø, who has been on leave, has once again taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Himanshu Gulati, Marianne Marthinsen and Liv Signe Navarsete on leave from 3 January to 23 March – all to take a master's course at the Defence College from the representative of Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen on parental leave from 9 January to 12 May from the representative of Eigil Knutsen for the period from 9 January to 18 January On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Akershus County: Liv Gustavsen 9 January–22. March For the province of Hordaland: Leif Audun Sande 9 January–18. January For Oslo: Zaineb Al-Samarai 9 January–23. March For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Steinar Ness 9 January–23. March For Eastfold County: Siv Henriette Jacobsen 9 January–9. May
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e114	The representative Per Espen Stoknes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e119	On behalf of the representatives of Espen Barth-Eide, Else-May Botten, Rigmor Aasrud and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to remove remaining barriers to greener public procurement, which relates in particular to the lack of competence of public purchasers and the lack of management focus in public enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e124	The President would like to tell you that this is Document 8 proposal No. 100 received in the fall. There's no premium for it. [[muttering in the hall]] Let's start with the next one – Gina Barstad will put forward a motion for a resolution No. 101.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e131	Thank you for introducing a proposal for a representative for 101 S. On behalf of Solfrik Lerbreck, Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself, I would like to make a proposal to legislate on the right to safe pension conditions in the event of the competitive outsourcing of public enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e136	And the representative Arne Nävra will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e141	On behalf of the representatives of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Lars Haltbrecken, Gina Barstad and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal that county municipalities can make environmental demands in tenders for commercial bus routes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e146	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e164	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e173	I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation on the Bergen urban package. This has helped us to have been able to deal with this proposition in record time. There are a few disagreements in the setting, but I expect that the respective parties will explain. The State, at the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, the municipality of Bergen and the county of Hordaland, has signed an urban convention for Bergen for the period 2017-2023. In order to ensure the means to follow up the local part of the urban growth agreement, a new urban package for Bergen was worked on in parallel with the negotiations. The new urban package, which is to replace the Bergen programme, has a collection period of 20 years. In the agreement, this includes, inter alia: the establishment of State co-financing for the further development of the Urban Railway to the Füllingsdalen, State funds for measures for public transport, bicycles and corridors along the national road and the continuation of rewards. The Ministry considers that the urban growth agreement is one of the main means of achieving the objective of taking growth in passenger transport with public transport, bicycles and corridors. The new urban package for Bergen is an important part of the urban growth agreement and a prerequisite for achieving the goal. 15 new toll stations are established in addition to the 14 existing stations. The total traffic base measured in annual traffic is 263 000 vehicles. Time-differentiated toll tariffs shall continue in existing toll stations, but not in the new ones. Furthermore, environmental-differentiated tariffs shall be introduced in both new and existing toll stations. It is added to a discount system in line with a new structure. This means that advance payments for rebates are cancelled and 20 pst are introduced. Discount for tariff group 1 but not for tariff group 2. The 60-passenger system per calendar month is continued. It is stated that an average income per pass after the new toll stations have been put into operation will be NOK 11,50 at 2017 prices. The total gross toll revenue is calculated at 20 billion. kr. for the period 2018 to 2037. Of this, 11 billion is. kr provided that the project and the measures under the urban growth agreement are implemented. The borrower is estimated to be 4,5 pst. for the period 2018-2022, 5,5 pst. between 2023 and 2026 and 6,5 pst. from 2027. The annual price increase and the increase in the price are set at 2,5 pst. Annual collection and operating costs are estimated at 86 million. kr when the new toll stations are put into operation in 2019. The proposition refers to the implementation of a quality assurance of the traffic and financing conditions of the urban package. It is recommended here that the collective west and urban environment tunnel projects be taken out of the package until further notice. The Ministry points out that several of the projects are at an early stage and there is considerable uncertainty about cost estimates and progress. The project portfolio must therefore be adapted to the overall financial framework of the urban package. An overall committee refers to this and will point to the importance of strict portfolio management also in the further work. The strong population growth we experience here in the country will in itself generate more transport. The need for goods and services will increase, including the number of work trips. It will be particularly important to meet the growing transport needs in an environmentally friendly way. The establishment of jobs, leisure activities and places of residence related to each other in such a way that they can be reached by public transport, bicycles or corridors becomes more important in the future. In this context, the reward schemes and urban environment and urban growth agreements are important instruments. These schemes will stimulate better accessibility, less pollution and fewer health problems in metropolitan areas, by reducing passenger car transport, increasing the number of collective trips, and by facilitating cycling and cycling. Using the other instruments available to local authorities, it is expected that one can now ensure that air quality in Bergen will improve even in days of poor climatic conditions. Our largest cities have special challenges in terms of the development of public transport. High frequency, good regularity and sufficient capacity characterise a good collective offer, the development of such infrastructure is costly. This government has committed itself to covering 50 pst. the costs of these projects in the four major urban areas: Oslo and Akershus, Bergen, Nord-Jären and Trondheim. This is a system that this government and the Left and Christian People's Party established in the previous magnificence period. It is also set out in the National Transport Plan 2018-2029 and is thus a good and predictable instrument for the urban areas in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e194	The mountains grow by 3,000 inhabitants every year. The urban areas of Bergen have a population of Norwegian average cities, and the Urban Railway is a climate and transport measure of national importance. The industry, the transport industry and those who have to drive a car are interested in anyone who can, travel collectively, bicycles or walks. A number of public travellers reduce the amount of cooling and improve road space for those who have to drive. Business loses billions of jobs every year. The mountain has adopted a green strategy, one of which aims to reduce car traffic by 10 pst. With such a high population growth, it's an ambitious target, but it's also absolutely necessary. The trade profile of the negotiated contract is satisfied with the trade profile of the hauliers, the Transport Workers’ Association and the NHO. There is a cross-political agreement that there should be a continuous, continuous expansion of the Urban Railway to all parts of the city. The proposal was promoted in 2010 and was adopted unanimously. All the political parties in Bergen voted on this proposal. The city railway in Bergen is a great success. Since 2007, it has been 89 pst. increase in collective shareholding, 65 p.m. since 2010, when the first urban road was opened. This year it is estimated that more than 12 million journeys take place on one urban railway line in Bergen, which has fundamentally changed the travel habits of an entire city. The city track to the Füllingsdalen is estimated to have 40000 passengers by day. Several of the largest civil workplaces in Hordaland, such as the Högskulen in the West, Haukeland University Hospital and Haraldsplaats Diakonale Hospital, are associated with the track and center. The Åsane Urban Railway is estimated to have 50,000 passengers every day. Åsane is the part of Bergen that has the biggest traffic problems and the greatest need for re-planning and investment. The city track solves this. The NHO in Hordaland, LO and a unanimous Bergen City Council have adopted a 70 - pst claim. State share in new NTP. The working party supports this. We did so in connection with the NTP and next year's state budget, and we are also promoting proposals on this today. Should Bergen, Oslo, Stavanger and Trondheim meet national requirements for climate change, we believe that the state must take even more responsibility. There will also be a greater acceptance for toll rates if cities succeed better with accessibility. Citizens must experience increased regularity, more frequent departures and acceptable, low prices of the collective service. There is no doubt that only 50 pst is agreed upon. State contributions challenge the future economy of Bergen and Hordaland County. At the same time, the city must continue along the collective axis. A Joint Committee refers to the quality assurance, KS2, implemented, of the traffic and financing requirements of the urban package and points to the importance of strict portfolio management in the future. The Bergens have to figure out how to give better space to people in their traffic-laden historic centre. The environmental promise for Hordaland provides funds for urban environment tunnels and other traffic measures that can attenuate the UNESCO Brewery Protected Site and minimise traffic through the oldest cultural heritage in Norway. Finally, I will give tribute to Hordaland County Municipality, the municipality of Bergen and the Ministry of Transport, which have come together in a new, better and, not least, predictable form of funding for its city.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e215	Would the representative, Mr Leirtrø, like to make a proposal? - She has to. Then the representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the proposal of the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e222	Today is the last day of Stortinget before Christmas, and we're going to deal with another so-called package. This time, the inhabitants of the beautiful west village of Bergen are going to get a package, but this is a package that the Progress Party does not like to give, nor does it like to get. The Bergen urban package has been dealt with and adopted against the votes of the Progress Party, both in Bergen and in the district of Hordaland. Although the Progress Party voted against this package, it is locally anchored. The financing plan includes both State resources, county funds and tolls. The progress team records that as many as 15 new toll stations have been set up, making a total of 29 toll stations and a collection period of 20 years. The proposed toll scheme will give about 20 billion dollars. kr in toll contributions. The Progress Party is concerned about this significant share of tolls. However, the toll financing of the project has been decided locally, against our votes. Tolls on the project are thus something you want locally, and the Right-Fremskrit party government is occupied by local democracy, we listen to local democracy, and we follow what local politicians want. Consequently, we are dealing with the majority who have won locally, and the decisions that have been taken, and therefore accept this package that is being dealt with today. It is also gratifying to see that an overall committee takes the view that toll tariffs can be lower, based on market interest rates or the fixing of interest rates, and considers that this is an option that can be used if local policy is desirable. Experience has shown that lower market interest rates or the fixing of interest rates could result in lower interest rates than the calculation technical interest rates, which in turn may lead to lower toll rates, which the drivers can benefit from. The members of the Committee of the Parties wish to set the pass-by roof for all vehicles with a valid piece and agree to 40 passages per month and not 60 passages, if there is local agreement. Indeed, the promotion party is concerned with avoiding an unreasonable financial burden for some drivers, and a lower pass-by roof would also be able to make it cheaper for, among other things. families with children, who are dependent on driving their children for leisure activities, in addition to the regular journey back and forth to work every day. The Progress Party notes that the Urban Package Bergen also adds to both time-differentiated and environmentally-differentiated bomb tariffs. Although this is also locally anchored, against the votes of the Progress Party, we will point out that the use of both time-differentiated and environmentally-differentiated tolls could lead to an unreasonablely high toll share and that it is unfortunate. In conclusion, I would like to point out that it is wise and right to add up to a ring road east, which includes E16 and E39. We assume that this ring road is being developed as a road that is safe and forward-looking and that, in addition to leading transit traffic outside Bergen, it contributes to reduced travel time and links regions together. One last point I think it is important to get there, is the possibility of getting even more bike path and footpath for the money we grant. There, the Right-Fremskrit Party government has opened up the possibility for local politicians and state politicians, of course based on local demand, to deviate from the rigid manuals of the State Road Service in the case of municipal roads or county roads, and it is possible to build more, simpler and cheaper bicycle paths and pedestrian paths. It is common in Denmark, where there is a significantly larger network of bicycle paths and pedestrian paths than we have in Norway. We encourage local politicians to look at that possibility, because it is also an opportunity they have in this urban package.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e245	I would like to thank the case spokesperson I used to do a good job and the committee that we have managed to deal with the matter so quickly – that we can deal with it before we close the Stortinget before Christmas. It is an important issue for future traffic management and air quality in Bergen that we are going to adopt here today. I would like to pay tribute to the municipality of Bergen and the municipality of Hordaland, which have initiated this urban growth agreement, so that they will bet on taking the growth of traffic with collective, bicycle and gong. So one should also think that not everyone and everything can get on the bus, track or bike. There must still be room for those who are to deliver goods and services that require a vehicle to be used towards the centre. An important point is also the bypass except the centre and the organisation of traffic which is not to enter the centre, but is to continue around, and that there are then good bypass options. The centre party is also concerned that toll financing should not create unreasonably high loads for those who cannot control the rush time, with the highest toll rates, but that it should contribute to the transition to collective solutions – or gangs and bicycles – that are both flexible and easy to use. The agreement provides for State co-financing to ensure further development of the Urban Railway to the Filling Valley and several measures for public transport, more bicycles and gangways along national roads and the continuation of rewards. It is also important to look at individual areas that may look like frames unimaginably much in connection with the new toll station. It has been particularly frustrating for people in the Hylkje, Haukås and Hordvik area, who think they're going to get extra stress when they're going to the Åsane center, a split school circle with the bombing, and they don't think they're going to get anything else for the extra burden of the bombing here. It is also important to look at possible remedial measures or measures that could provide a better collective solution in such cases where the establishment of new tolling stations gives unparalleled results for individual areas. It is also interesting to note that whenever such a package or a toll case comes on the table here in the hall, the Progress Party disagrees with its own government council's recommendation to the Stortinget. This urban package is well anchored locally, and it is well anchored in the county municipality, so it should be lacking that not also the Stortinget and the state are now involved in ensuring that this urban package comes into place. I perceive that there is also great local satisfaction with plans and expansion that have happened, and that will be done further to ensure that Bergen will evolve as the pearl he is, to an even brighter and better pearl for those who live there, and for us others who must thank you for visiting him once in a while. The central party supports the recommendation on the matter, and I would like to be informed that we will not support the proposal put forward by the Labour Party and SV, nor the other loose proposals that have been put forward today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e262	Yesterday's BA read about poor air quality in Bergen. It is not new to us who have lived in the capital of the West for a long time, but it is surprising now that air quality is a major problem also in areas where it was previously thought not so bad. We know that we need to have policies to bring down the traffic in the Bergen center. We have to do it in the interests of the climate, we have to do it in the interests of the environment, and we have to do it in the interests of mountain life and health. One of the most important and best tools we have for that very thing is the Urban Railway. The city track is the only thing that has managed to tackle the struggle with the transport of cars in Bergen, after decades of growth in private cars. The city railway has between 40000 and 50000 passengers on a normal day-to-day basis. In 2015, every fifth collective trip in Hordaland was with the City Railway, and it was on a trasé that was then only 13.5 kilometres long, the City Park–Lagounen. So it's carrying thousands of people with zero local emissions. If all of these were to travel by bus, the road network would not have the capacity to escape passenger flows, and then more roads had to be built, which is a much less environmentally friendly solution. It's changing the way we travel. On the city track there is a lot of travelling large parts of the day. Here the city railway is different from the bus traffic, where the traffic in the daytime is often low on many lines. The daily urban runway frequency is set to depart every 8 minutes in order to be able to escape the passenger flows. Already in 2013, a travel habit study conducted by SINTEF showed that the Urban Railway had changed the distribution of means of transport in the urban railway corridor, as we call it. The collective share of travel between Bergenhus, Årstad, Fana and Otrebygda increased from 19 p.m. from 2008 to 28 pst. in 2013. The same study showed that for the first time in many decades, there was a decline in the proportion of people travelling by car in Bergen. It shows that the City Railway is moving passengers from car to city, and from car to car on other public trips. In the debate on the Urban Railway, opponents often suggest that the Urban Railway is a slow traffic solution. I believe the Progress Party of Bergen in the 2007 election campaign consistently referred to it as a somletrick. But the truth is that the Urban Railway is a fast-paced travel option. In a global context, the Urban Railway is one of the fastest tram systems, with an average speed of approx. 28 km/ h. It's faster than the subway in New York. The city railway promotes other environmentally friendly modes of transport. National and regional targets are set for zero growth in car traffic. To achieve that goal, we need to strengthen all the environmentally friendly modes of transport – walking, cycling and public travel. So we need a good green transport mix. In Bergen we see that car sharing is increasing by 20 pst. in the year, emission-free buses are on their way, and Bergen has seriously started to bet on bicycles. There are many things in this urban package that are good things that SV is for, especially funding the City Railway, which is the most important. But the only way to get less car traffic is to have less car traffic. So we can't support a big highway between Sandviken and Nøstet, if we never call it that much for an urban environment tunnel. We believe that the state must contribute more, as the Workers' Party's speeches were in hand. 70 pst. therefore proposals have been submitted. I would like to inform you that the proposals No. 1 and 3 are equivalent. We therefore do not refer to proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox It seems that we are voting on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox But I would like to mention proposal No. 2, on behalf of SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e279	The representative of Gina Barstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e284	The left is very pleased that today we adopt funding for City Pack Bergen, in line with decisions by local government. Although not all details and priorities are in place, it is important for Bergen to have a clear decision on what framework they can relate to. The urban runway is a success, and it contributes a lot in terms of climate challenges and urban development, where Bergen is expected to grow in numbers and therefore need new housing and land for business. It is then fair and reasonable for the State to contribute to the financing of measures that lead to lower emissions and local pollution, and at the same time to demand back the effectiveness of the measures and thus to receive a reward. The reward money in its form requires Bergen to deliver. Programme area actions along the national road are also an important contribution. It must be an alternative by bicycle and also multiply parallel to the national road network in Bergen. It's set at 1.5 billion. kr to this effect in the period 2017-2023. The mountains have little bicycle usage compared to other cities they can compare with. Of course, it can be the climate that limits the mountains from cycling, but one who lives in Trondheim, who has a much larger bicycle share, is a little surprised that the mountains are no longer cycling. Yes, it rains three times as much in Bergen, but it rains as many days in Trondheim as in Bergen, so there should be no excuse. In addition, the Left will mention the agreement on state financing of bicycle tunnels in parallel with the urban trasé through the Løvstakken and the Füllingsdalen. It is creative to plan to use the escape tunnel for cycling purposes. This may help to increase the number of bicycles in Bergen, and not least a clear signal to other projects about thinking new and diverse. We don't have room for more private cars running in the cities at the same time, but we have plenty of space for cycling, walking and users of trains, tracks and buses. The main source of income is tolls from the drivers. The left considers the device to be satisfactory. We would have preferred to see the system more in line with road pricing instead of adding a common hourly rule for all the toll stations. What is very good is environmentally-differentiated tariffs in existing and new toll stations. Since February 2016, Bergen has had time-differentiated tariffs, and I have understood this has solved many local challenges with queues and local emissions. The new toll stations shall not be subject to any collection periods. It is a local choice that I have great respect for, but it is incredibly important to achieve the goal of less driving and reducing emissions. The Bergen urban package shall have an upper framework for the use of money, and therefore a project portfolio shall prioritise the projects on an ongoing basis. Strict follow-up is required to choose the most effective measures in relation to the achievement of the target. My experience of similar work in Trondheim City Council suggests that there must be a broad majority and a critical look at all the good actions and purposes that emerge along the way. The left really wants Bergen to come forward, so that the city looks attractive in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e299	The rapporteur has explained the matter well, and I hear from the debate and see in the vote that there is largely agreement on the substance here. The Progress Party expresses some resistance to environmental and time-differentiated bomb tariffs, despite the fact that they know it works, and the Workers' Party believes that government shares in collective projects are too low, despite the fact that the State goes in more than ever. This is predictable. But even though there's something different about weighting the parts in between in the setting, there's a consensus about most when it comes to the piece. The city package will be adopted, and that's good. The Christian People's Party supports this proposal, as indicated in the vote. For the Christian People's Party, it's important to see what the Storting actually decides now, and what we don't adopt. So the size does not determine the details of a locked package. What the Storting decides, and which the Christian People's Party supports, is a framework, some instruments and a preliminary portfolio. Several of the projects are at an early stage and there is considerable uncertainty about cost estimates and progress. Therefore, no final decision has been taken on the device and the implementation of the projects and measures in the package. The project portfolio needs to be adapted to the financial framework of the urban package and the projects and actions of the Urban Package Bergen are part of the urban growth agreement and are prioritised through portfolio management. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Ministry that the scope of the expansion must be adapted to the economic framework and the leadership that apply and that is established for the Urban Package Bergen. The Christian People's Party has respect for the local political decisions that are taken, and we deal with the priorities that have been wanted and adopted locally. Then I see that the Workers' Party and SV propose 70 pst. financing of the collective projects in the Bypakket Bergen. This is known rhetoric, but the fact is that it is the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left who have made sure that the state undertakes to take half the bill for large collective projects through the agreements where this applies. It was this majority that got the commitment in place after the red-greens went off in 2013. We also remember Storting's treatment of NTP in ours, where neither the Workers' Party nor SV had a containment for their proposals. Nor did the 70 percent have proposals for funding. It's easy to write something on paper, but especially credible it won't. That's why I'm happy that the state is now going in, as suggested in the proposition. The Bergen urban package is a spice layer between the state, the county and the municipality, and it is not least that the inhabitants of Bergen make a significant contribution to getting better offers on the road, collective, bicycle and meals. The Christian People's Party is voting in favour of the committee's recommendation and against the minority proposals that have been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e313	If we are to meet the objective of zero growth in urban car traffic and provide less congestion, better urban life and cleaner air, we need to give far higher priority to public transport. It also means prioritizing motorways and cars lower. The Green Party has done just that and shown how we can and will get to 80 pst in its overall re-prioritisation of the national transport plan. State funding of the collective projects in the major cities. The Bergen urban package is just such a project, where we suggest that the state contribute 80 pst. of the financing. I therefore refer to our proposal on this today. We believe it is particularly important for the Bergen urban package that collective development is prioritised and implemented quickly. We therefore support a re-prioritisation of the funds in the urban package, so that the funds allocated to urban environment tunnels are used for other collective projects in the urban package. We believe that this will contribute to a significantly better offer for all who depend on the transport system in Bergen, to better urban development and to a faster improvement in air quality in Bergen in winter. It is particularly important for urban development in Bergen to ensure that the Urban Railway is built to the Filling Valley, and that rapid progress is made to extend the route to Åsane. We are particularly pleased that the Labour Party today proposes that the State pay 70 p.m. of the collective projects of the Bypakket Bergen. They're in a very positive development, in relation to the fact that the red-green government would have 10 pst. State funding of Bybanen. But unfortunately for all those who travel collectively in Bergen, the new Urban Railway has given an increase of 45 pst. in the 2010 Bergen public transport prices. In Bergen, a single ticket now costs NOK 37, against NOK 33 in Oslo. With the red-green policy, these prices would have been cut by 20 pst. for less than 30 kroner, or 29,50 kroner, which the marketers would have said. The prices of trams, buses and trains have increased sharply under the red and blue governments. The Greens will reverse that trend. Everyone must be able to make environmentally friendly choices in everyday life, not least those who can afford the worst. Collective prices in this country are increasing more than petrol prices — mostly across Europe. This is a completely wrong signal to the voters, especially those with the worst advice and those who live outside the cities, who lack alternatives. This is also a completely wrong signal for most people because the car has had a lower price development than the general price development, i.e. the KPI, in the period 2005–2016. From 2005 to 2016 the prices of buses and taxis in Norway increased by over 50 pst. This is far more than the price growth in both the EU and the rest of Scandinavia, showing figures from the Statistical Central Bureau. In the same period, the prices of trains, T-Bahn and trams have increased by about 30 pst. The Greens therefore believe that, in addition to making a strong effort to build up the collective network, we need to invest in lower collective prices in order to make it more attractive to travel collectively. It is not enough just to make car use more expensive and limit access to the private car. People also need a carrot to choose collectively. This will help the poor, especially those who live in the cities where they cannot afford to own or use a car. That's why we proposed using 2.8 billion in our alternative state budget. kr to reduce collective prices here in the country by 20 pst. already in 2018. It is to prioritize public transport rather than car traffic, and it is to prioritise them with the worst advice and to promote environmentally friendly choices in everyday life to most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e326	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e331	Developing good transport solutions is important, both in the districts and in cities. Often, the solutions one chooses will vary slightly, depending on the forms of transport available, the kind of flexibility people have in everyday life, and how many are going to go the same way. It's obvious that the solutions are different when you're in pig-grown strokes, compared to when you're in the center of the largest cities. But then there are also different challenges. Where many people live and travel, there will be need, more pollution and the like, and then one must have a different approach. That's why it's good when the Stortinget now adopts an urban currency and a urban package for Bergen, simply because we have to make sure that the state contributes more to developing the collective solutions that exist in the cities, and find an agreement where we see that the urban growth agreement that you have concluded, and the urban package that you are now adopting, goes hand in hand. Providing good land development that allows more people to live and work so that collective solutions can be developed in a sensible way is important. At the same time, one should respect that we also want to make our cities inclusive for people living in the districts, for people who commute, and for people who like to live in the city today and can travel collectively, but who tomorrow get a different life situation, which makes them have to go out, but still want to live where they have their roots, where the children go to school, and the like. Ensuring a variety of transport services, which respect people's everyday lives and people's wallets, is an important part of the whole thing that you have to solve. I believe that we are doing reasonably well in the agreements we have concluded with Bergen, and in what the Stortinget now decides. There is a strong growth in the state allocations for collective development in Bergen. I record that from some opposition parties there is a very critical one. I remember then that the transport agency in Bergen has itself pointed out that Bergen has been treated with a vote, they have at best got up to 15 pst. in State contributions when they have built up collective redundancies over the past 12 years. Now they get 50 pst. It's more than a triple. It's a very predictable way to secure state funding, because Bergen's municipality and politicians know exactly what the state will contribute to, as opposed to being promised up to 70 pst., which has historically given 15 pst. It's unpredictable. It is important that we ensure here the diversity of the decision of the Storting, both to develop a better road network and to ensure that those who drive a car – both trucks, buses and passenger cars – get away from where people live and travel, as one does through the tunnel development, ensure that more people get an offer where one can choose a bus, walk or bike and still make the travel cab function, as one does with the development of the urban railway, as one does with the development of walking and cycling routes. It ensures the diversity and travel needs in a good way. I see that in the comments from the Workers' Party and the Left, it points to a bicycle tunnel. It is already in the government's plan that it will also be part of the 50-50 scheme. So there's a lot of government funding, and there's a lot of toll funding. It is important that local politicians continue to be able to turn their heads around and make sure that they are used in a sensible way, even though most of the funding comes from places other than their own budgets. It is important that one has cost management in relation to the portfolio in place, so that one is implemented as much as possible at the lowest price possible. It gives maximum benefit to the population. It must not be that just because the state is now making large increases in its contributions, the drivers are forced to pay more and someone is taking easy care of the management of that money. Walking towards the urban environment tunnel can be a good thing because one is against cars, but it becomes as relevant as going against the construction of the tunnel in Bjørvika in Oslo with the argument that it will create more traffic. I think everyone who sees the development in Bjørvika today will be happy that that decision was made, that the tunnel is there. I also think that we should avoid the people of Bergen that the traffic that goes there in any case goes away from where people live and travel, that we're just taking care of it to create a more attractive city space in the center. We also have to remember that even if you get zero growth in passenger transport, it's probably going to be a growth in commercial traffic. We want it to be a vibrant city centre, with shops, with offices and with activity and cultural offers, which requires a transporter to and from goods. But I also think we all agree that the vehicles that will travel there are likely to be a zero-emission vehicle to a greater and greater extent. We're going to do that and contribute to it, but the traffic will still be there. Putting it in the tunnel will be a long way to go before it goes right where people are going.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e348	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e353	We are constantly experiencing the dual communication of the Progress Party in terms of tolls. The NTP currently on the table adds up to 137 billion. kr in tolls over the next ten years. It finances a lot of great road development, including the urban packages. An alternative to tolls can be road pricing, so my question to the Council of State is on it. What does the Council of State think about going for road pricing instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e360	As Stortinget is familiar with, we have launched an investigation on road pricing for heavier vehicles. We're working on that. But I'm skeptical of those who want to use another form of taxation to increase the tax burden on road traffic in general. I'll warn you against that. Otherwise, there was a lot of error in the claims in the introduction to the question. In fact, with this national transport plan adopted by the Stortinget, based on the proposal put forward by the government in the spring, the amount of toll will fall, not rise, and the level of toll that one borrows each year will be lower than the average in the national transport plan presented by the Workers’ Party in 2013. This is actually going in the right direction. In the national transport plan adopted, there is a subsidy scheme to reduce the share of tolls in existing toll projects adopted. The Workers' Party opposed this. It's a little strange to be told by the Workers' Party about the level of tolls when one is opposed to helping cut the toll projects. It'll be like a pyromaniac criticizing the fire department.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e369	As I pointed out in my post, the City Railway is the only collective service that in Monn has moved passengers from car to public transport. It's positive for the air, it's positive for the place, and it's positive for the environment and climate. For many years, the party of progress was opposed to the Urban Railway in Bergen. Does the Council of State agree that the City Railway is a success story?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e376	I'm happy with all the measures that make people get an alternative that makes them not dependent on a car, but actually have an option. When the City Railway gives it the offer, it's good. At the same time, there is no doubt that many different solutions exist to achieve the same objectives. The city track has proved to be a success, but one does not know if one for the same money could get an even better solution, for example. based on a bus offer similar to the one you have chosen to bet on in Trondheim or Stavanger. But it's going to be a little bit of an academic exercise, so it'll still be a discussion to see how we get the best possible collective offer for the money in the future. That must be the objective. Always saying that collective solutions have to go on iron wheels to be a success, I think is a pre-conceived approach to how the solutions should be. What I think Bergen can still be satisfied with is that the bets they're going to make in the future are going to have a government contribution of 50 pst, versus about 15 pst. when SV was in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e385	The left is very pleased that the NTP is now being followed up, that they have actually listened to it around the cities and are applying for these urban growth agreements, and not least their financing. We're very pleased with that. One of the measures that are both in the NTP and that have been implemented by this government in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party recently is reward schemes. My question to the Council of State is how he views the reward schemes in the future. They're promised a few years now, but it's clear that in the word reward there are sanctions if you don't actually achieve the results. How does the Council of State view that arrangement?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e392	We've been using a lot of different tools in the last few years to try to strengthen the state's contribution to the urban community's collective effort. In that it is that when the state delivers extra money, you also expect to get results back. The reward scheme has been in the form of achieving zero growth targets for passenger car transport. We're trying to get many of the different schemes into the urban growth agreement or urban environment agreement, just to make sure that one sees land policy and state funding of investment in the context, so that we don't build things that the municipality doesn't take into account when regulating its areas. It is natural that one sees the total appropriations in the context. We have said that e.g. Trondheim, which was the first city to make an urban capital speech, will have reward schemes for another period, but the best thing is if one gets everything into the same package, so that one doesn't have more instruments that go parallel, to try to achieve the same. We are, after all, a limited number of politicians both locally, in the state and in the state, and then we must be able to agree to bring together all the instruments in one package.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e399	I've been sitting on the Stortinget long enough to remember – and the Minister of Transport spent enough time on Stortinget to make sure he remembers well – what the representatives of the Progress Party said about the Urban Railway in Bergen. I don't think the Minister for Transport answered the question very well from Barstad, so I want to basically repeat it and maybe sharpen it even more, so that he can answer briefly and concisely. Is the Progress Party for or against the Urban Railway in Bergen?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e407	The Progress Party has said in the past that we think we're getting more collective offers for the money by choosing other solutions. But when the Urban Railway is built, we're going to back up that effort to make sure it's a success. It would be pointless to counter an offer in which you have invested so much money. But I still think, as I also said in my previous answer, that when we're going to bet new in the future, we should have an open mind to assess which solutions provide as much as possible a collective offer. That is the objective – not to support a given type of solution. Then it's a little strange if the Workers' Party is trying to make this debate either one for urban and collective action, or one against. On the contrary, it is about offering the best possible offer for as much as possible. Where the city railway is built, and where it is to be built, we must ensure that we support that commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e412	‘Where the Urban Railway is built,’ said the Minister for Transport. I ask this question solely because I want to hear what the Progress Party thinks about the Urban, as it has been a battle theme for many years. Where the city track is built, it is well said in essence itself that the Progress Party does not want any changes. But there is much discussion about developing, expanding and extending the urban railway offer in Bergen. That's what's interesting. What does the Advancement Party think, not about what is built by the City Railway, but about future extensions of the Urban Railway in Bergen?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e417	I also said that in my previous answer. Then I said where it is built and will be built, and therefore I already answered the question raised by the representative Myrli. It's going to be a little bit too many times that we're standing and having a line changer where the representative Myrli quotes half sentences, later that the other half doesn't exist, and tries to create a debate on it. I think that's a little pointless. What I'm happy about is that we have a government that is now spending a lot more money building collective solutions in the largest cities. In the nine largest cities there is much more money. With regard to the city we are now in, a representative – I believe it was Elvesuen – could point out in the budget debate that Oslo got $0 for seven out of eight years to bet on public transport. Now they have received a lot more money in all the years – about 400 million. kr. It provides an opportunity to bet more on both iron wheels and on rubber wheels, simply to build an offer adapted to the population of cities. I'll back that up in a second. I'm glad that a bourgeois majority is serious about what many people in the past have been talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e422	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e429	Chapter 4 of the proposal makes good use of current projects and actions covered by the Urban Package Bergen. One of the projects is the national road project Ringveg east, E39 Vågsbotn–Klauvaneset. This route is part of NTP 2018-2029, the last six-year period. The need for the road section has been thoroughly addressed in the proposal, the road section has been about building a new one in a human age and was planned for the first time in 1969. A little has happened despite the fact that the need is getting bigger and bigger. Today there are about 20,000 cars per day on this narrow road, and traffic is increasing by about 2 pst. annual. When the landing from Johan Sverdrup comes to Mongstad, traffic will increase further. This is not going to happen without a new path. As part of Ringveg East, I assume that the tolls charged to the package will also contribute to the construction of the Vågsbotn–Klauvaneset road section. That's the first question I want to raise. The other thing I want to mention is the relationship with the Nordhordlands package, which Stortinget has recently agreed. He's also being financed by tolls. The bombing stations of this project will be about 20 minutes from the nearest tolling stations in the City Pack Bergen. In both packages, both the Nordhordlands package and the City Pack Bergen, a common timeline for all toll stations has been established. I assume this also applies to running between the packages, not only internally in the packages. I want to ask the Council of State to confirm this. The last thing I want to mention is the government contribution to the city package. Here the Labour Party has proposed that the government pay 70 p.m. government funding of the collective project – not up to 70 pst, but 70 pst. This will mean that less money needs to be collected locally, and that could mean a lower toll part. Here, the government should have followed the Labour Party's proposal. I think it's a bit pathetic when the Progress Party complains locally about high tolls, when they're not willing to vote for more government funding, which could just be helping to reduce it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e440	I thought it was a big day when the Stortinget was going to decide on the financing of Citypackakket Bergen. It is an important measure to achieve the objective of tackling passenger transport in this area by means of public transport, bicycles and gangways. Then the Storting in St.prp. No 75 for 2004–2005 allowed borrowings to secure parallel expansion of the first stage of Ringveg west and the first stage of the Urban Railway, it was a historic milestone. It happened after a long local political struggle, driven by the party that is in opposition to today's government. The central party actually had the transport agency in Bergen City Board when this was first adopted, Nils Arild Johnsen's name was his. He was a strong driver for the decision of the City Railway as the mainstay of the Bergen collective system. Not only was this a transport offer, it was a social choice for an environmentally friendly urban development. My first election to Bergen City Council in 2003 was a city track election. Then the Right and the Advance Party went to the choice of being against the Urban Railway in Bergen. In 2009, the Progress Party went out of the City Council in Bergen because they could not agree to increase the toll. to finance the second stage of the Urban Railway. But it's like "times are coming, times are going to roll out," and now the Progress Party advice is going to present this loan request, and it's very positive. The proposal makes good use of local policy decisions. The city council joined the toll request in ours, but they had five notes. I would like to point this out to Note No. 5th@item: inlistbox It says that when new toll stations are installed, it is important to take into account the local environment, with factors such as school circuits, kindergartens, local leisure activities and other activities. In general, one in the wider process should be open to input from the local environment and location of the various toll stations, in order to minimise the environmental disadvantages. Now there are 15 new toll stations, and some of them are criticised, for example. No 16 in Tellevikvejen. He has led to major protests in the local environment because he goes through the middle of a school circle, my school circle. The local population is rightly concerned about the disadvantages plus that it also does not reduce transit traffic, which is a problem on the narrow Tellevik road – apart from a road made with blood, sweat and tears by Russian prisoners of war during the Second World War. I hope and assume that in the upper frames that the Stortinget now approves, there is the possibility of adjusting some toll stations, such as the one in the Tellevikwegen. Among other things, we want the rule of time not to apply to that distance, to reduce transit traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e455	After Toppe's excellent articles on this matter, it strikes me that «the angels sang it, first for the shepherds of the field».
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e460	It's a happy day when we finally adopt the Urban Package and funding the Urban Railway to the Füllingsdalen, planning the Ringweg East to get the E39 Coastal Route outside the Centre and several collective measures plus cycloning and walking arrangements in several parts of the city. The mountain has a compact center that is also the node of the eight districts, and much of the traffic passes through the center and the Middle Ages. Center is surrounded by seven mountains, which means that in cold and fine weather, in winter especially, there is a lid over the Bergens valley, with an air quality that gives health challenges. The construction of the Urban Railway to the Filling Valley before Åsane: The original plan was to build first to Åsane, which is the second largest part of the city, with over 40,000 inhabitants. It was a former Right Party agency that changed its priorities. That's why it's important that we still have the pressure to be able to build a public and urban railway to Åsane. The industry represented by the Freight Car Association, the Transport Workers' Association and the NHO are well satisfied with the profile of the contract. The Bergen Economic Council has estimated that industry is losing billions of jobs every year in Bergen. Business traffic in Bergen is significantly better conditioned than in the Oslo and Stavanger areas with the new tariffs. Building an efficient urban transport system is expensive. Toll levels are high and have a distributional impact, because charges do not take into account the amount of a server. A unanimous Bergen City Council has adopted a 70 - pst claim. State participation in new NTPs for the development of collective in cities – I would like to remind you that we have a very competent financial agency, Dag Inge Ulstein, from the Christian People's Party, in our city – so this is politically broadly anchored in the cities. Politics is under development, including in the Workers' Party, and of course there has been a struggle within the Workers' Party to get the priority of state support for cities and to develop the collective offer at a faster pace than it has been at present. I have been a member of the second largest toll company, Bergen Bompengegesellschaft, and it surprised me how much of the collected toll money went into collection. Now I also see that of the proposal of 20 billion. I'm going to go $1.7 billion. kr for collection and operation. It's a significant amount. So having cost management, maximum use for money, thinking about road pricing and other ways to do it is a challenge for the government and the government, because a lot of the technology should also be developed to bring down the costs of collection.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e473	Proposals for another toll project are provided by a Minister of Transport from the Progress Party, and another toll project goes through in the Stortinget without the Progress Party voting against. That is good, because tolls unfortunately have to be built when we are going to build large infrastructure projects, but also when we are going to finance the large collective solutions that are needed to bring down emissions and polluting traffic in big cities. The Bergen urban package, adopted by local government powers, is another step towards taking all growth in the big cities through collective solutions, corridors and bicycles. The Labour Party has a proposal together with SV where we propose a funding of 70 pst., not up to 70 pst., of the collective solutions. This would mean 115 million. kr more to Bergen next year – a not insignificant amount, which would go to infrastructure or collective solutions, not to reduce tolls. But the tolls are high in this package, like in the other urban packages that are and will be adopted for the next few years. The urban packages are a significant contribution to achieving targets for reduced emissions, but we hope that the builders now use digitised planning processes and digital design, so that we get more out of every single penny. This must be done to enable road users, who have to pay tolls, to understand and accept the need for this. That's not more than about 26 pst. by the car owners who use the car every day. We are all multi-users of public transport infrastructure, and public purchasers now have to go ahead and facilitate and require such digital solutions. It will save society too much and will be able to produce major ring-fences and contribute to a positive attitude towards the tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e480	I note that it is tempting for most people involved in this debate to spend more time on what has been said once in a while, than on what we are actually going to do today: by a broad majority to adopt one of the most important projects in my county, namely the further development of the Urban Railway, an urban capital for Bergen and the toll part of it. To my good colleague from the left: there is a difference of 2.5 meters of rain and 90 centimeters of rain. Even with one year of rainfall collected in Trondheim, you can still catch up with Nidarosdomen, but one year of rainfall in Bergen means that you have taken water over your head, short and well. Then you have to ride with frogsman's equipment. Now something important happens, because Bergen is a city that is designed so that there is a reason that there is less bicycle share in Bergen. There are barriers in Bergen that make it not as easy to ride. One of them we remove by this measure, namely when we build under the roof of Bergen, a bicycle tunnel between the district of Füllingsdalen and the center. Then you remove the barrier that the mountainside between the two parts of the city makes up today. There's no good route over it. We can say a lot about the level of government funding here, but I've been sitting as county rapporteur and commodity rapporteur during most of the expansion of this project, so I know what we got, and I know what we're getting now. As far as I can figure out – the Council of State was very kind – it's the ten times, because that's what went to the Urban Railway project in this. I think that's good. Then I'll be allowed to do a little visit to someone who comes after me on the list of speakers. In a debate a few days ago, my post was called the absolute low. What I said in the post was the same as the representative Leif Sande said today, namely that when one increases the government contribution to 70 p.m., it can lead to lower toll rates. Then I must know what the Workers' Party really means: Is that what Leif Sande, the last speaker, or he who called this an absolute low, mean? And is it absolutely low that was delivered from the pulpit now too? I expect we'll get that evaluation later. I want to say at least that if you increase a share from 50 to 70 pst, there won't be any more projects of that, because if there had been more projects and more expenses of that, the share would have sunk again. You can't both say that you're increasing a share and saying that you're getting more projects. If you increase the proportion, you increase the government share, i.e. that the State pays a larger part of the bill. There won't be any more projects at the other end of it. It'll probably be, as Leif Sande says, lower toll rates. That's good, but that's what we got guaranteed a few days ago from the Workers' Party that it wouldn't be.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e495	I am among those who are happy that we have got this in place. I myself have been in the state policy of Hordaland and have been involved in these negotiations, and it has been a long and demanding process for Hordaland County and Bergen Municipality. The state by the road director had made a lot of headway before we started the debate. There have been many heavy thanks, but here one has actually come to an agreement, and then I think one should respect the agreement that lies there, even though there are many points in which one might actually have intended to intervene. I particularly appreciate the fact that the State finally went in to participate in taking parts of the bicycle tunnel to the Filling Valley. Although there's more comments here about it, there's actually some things you've got in place. I think that can give the bike users in Bergen a real lift. To cycle three kilometers in the tunnel doesn't always have to be a minus in Bergen, and that tunnel must have been built as an escape route anyway. I'm also glad you've made sure that with a strong growth in electric cars, they should also be involved in taking part of the tax. When one comes over 20 pst, they're going to pay a little bit. I think it's important. They use space, and they are involved in making wear and tear on the roads, and they have to work hard to ensure that it is not too few. Therefore, it is also a little special that when one has actually been agreed locally, and the Progress Party Council has signed the agreement, there are still a lot of comments from the Progress Party in its own agreement. Then it's not so strange if the opposition comes immediately. What I'm more concerned about is that the part of public transport in the Bergens area where the state is going to take the whole part – the railway – is being postponed. The completion of the double-track Bergen-Arna has been delayed. There is no intention to start K5 Arna-Voss during this period. There could really have been a lift for the public transport that the state is taking part in. It's okay that today's NTP spends more money, but then one has to take the whole 12-year period. In the first six-year period, new funds are bad for Hordaland. That's the big challenge, and I think that's the background to some of the criticism that comes – that one gets little news in our area. It is also true that when you are going to have a city package on the East Ringway, we also need large government funds to complete it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e509	If we're going to achieve the goal set by the Storting, which has been repeated many times here today, that all traffic growth in the larger cities must take place through collective, bicycle and times, we have absolutely useful instruments. If we ignore taxes to control the behavior in this game, we obviously have the positive tools. One has gone under several names – urban growth agreements, urban environmental agreements, urban packages, and in their extension: the reward scheme. They're all related. This fact that all the states, municipalities, and traffic networks sit down together and think completely, has been a success – perhaps not so surprising. The second is to make it possible for more people to use bicycles, for more people to have safe pedestrian streets and pedestrian paths. It was sad to see the budget that was presented from the Right Party and the Advance Party in the autumn, both in terms of the reward scheme and the bicycle routes. In NTP, you were going to spend $1.7 billion. kr to urban growth agreements per year in the first period. And what was the proposal? Yes, 300 million. kr. A frightening halving was the proposal for appropriations for measures for walking and cycling from this government. Celebrations can be held about collective bets, about the soft road users, about bicycles and times, infinitely. But it has to follow money with these words, otherwise it has zero value. The Bergen urban package is something SV would like to welcome, with an adjustment that my colleague Gina Barstad has made clear. And we want a 70 pst. State funding of urban packages. In many cases, local resources and tolls are not sufficient. We also want more cities to have the system, including more medium-sized cities, for example. Bodø, Tønsberg, Moss, Hamar, Molde, Lillehammer, Gjøvik and Sandefjord. SV turned off nearly 2 billion. kr for collective investment in its budget and increased the investment in walking and cycling routes by 600 million. kr. The money is taken from large four-field road projects. We admit that openly and honestly, and that is a desired policy from us. It's a priority, as it's called – and it's also called containment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e528	It was my good friend Hans Fredrik Gruvan who said that the Labour Party's policy was «known rhetoric», i.e. the Workers' Party's proposal that the State should contribute up to 70 pst. the investments in large collective projects. No, this isn't just rhetoric; this is mostly politics. I think Gruvan also said that the Workers' Party did not cover it in its alternative to the National Transport Plan. That doesn't lead to correctness. This was one of the areas we had in the National Transport Plan, and we also added money to it. We added money to it in our alternative budget for 2018. In the state budget for 2018 there is money to finance 50 pst. of large collective investments in Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger. In its alternative government budget, the Labour Party increased that share from 50 pst. up to 70 pst. and the difference calculated for an estimated 300 million. kr, as the Workers' Party included in its alternative proposal. I just wanted to make it clear that I think it was a little sad that the Christian People's Party is now talking at the entrance to the Christmas celebrations, talking nonsense about the Labour Party's policy. So to Tom-Christer Nilsen, who had a visit to one of my posts in the budget debate on the road trip that we had a few days ago. I have not described the debate on tolls or the discussion about local contributions and state contributions as something low at all, it was the introduction to Nilsen, where he described in a very wrong way our alternative state budget, I expressed myself in that debate. The Workers' Party has a decision on and is in favour of the State contributing up to 70 pst. of the investment costs of large collective projects in our large cities. Of course, if the state contributes more, it means that local contributions can be used for other projects, or it can help to speed up the implementation of the projects. Of course, if the state takes a greater share of the investment costs of large collective projects, it means more public transport, and that means faster public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e537	With regard to the debate on the proportion to be covered by these packages, I understand the local political authorities, who would like to have the highest possible share. So they should vote for Red, which has 100 pst. the recovery of costs. In the case of the additional cost from 50 to 70 p.m., the urban package Bergen represents 1,2 billion. kr. At the same time, you promised the same thing for the Fornebuban, which alone amounts to 2.4 billion. kr. If you're going to do the same in Trondheim and Stavanger, the increase from 50 to 70 pst. significant amounts. What I think is important with 50 pst. is that there's actually a predictability in it. It is 50 pst. and it is defined in advance whether the projects should have 50 pst. or not. Then you have to remember that it's not just counties and municipalities that are going to finance the other 50 percent, it's actually builders. For Fornebubanen, about half of the part that the county municipality and the municipality of Oslo will contribute, comes from the builders who benefit from the enormous values that are liberated when building an urban railway through an area. You can increase the density. You let those who make money build homes, for example. OBOS, be part of and pay some of the cost of releasing the value that is actually building an urban railway. I think you should look at that, too. The second is that there is local unity. I think we could probably go in and take other projects into and out of the package from Stortinget. It's not desirable. We're going to stick to those who actually wear the shoes, those who are going to finance the 50 percent, those who are going to give priority in their city. It's important that we base it on these packages. In addition, I would like to say that this is a bit funny. One thing is that the Progress Party believes the tradition is not for funding, but they are for the measures. SV is not for the measures, but they are for the funding, because they want the toll stations to be on roads that are not built, and then you have to spend the money to build what they actually want. They're actually a little stuck in each of their ditches, but luckily both come up from the ditch when they're going to adopt this in the Storting. Finally, I would like to say something about the location of toll stations. One is that there'll be more toll stations, there won't have to be a udder. It just means that there are several people who contribute. When we analyzed Oslopackak 3 in its time, we saw that it was actually just 27 pst. of the drivers who had benefited from this, who drove through the bombing and were with and paid. Thus, by increasing the number of toll stations, costs could be allocated to several actors who benefited from the projects. The second is that in terms of the location of toll stations, it is a hive. That, I think, must be done in consultation between local authorities and the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e552	We would like to add to a city struggle between Trondheim and Bergen – not about how much rain we're going to have, for that fight Bergen will be allowed to win, but about the number of cyclists. Such competitions stimulate, we've had urban struggles between Trondheim and Bergen in the past, and to use the football language, we're probably leading 1–0 when it comes to both cycling and other sports events. But at least we want Bergen to really succeed. That's why I mentioned this escape tunnel, which is so creative that you actually put it up for use as a bike track. Otherwise I'll say about 50 pst. funding from the state that it's only 6 months, about a day, since we decided it in this big deal. The left is very much because we still follow up on the NTP only 6 months later – it is a 12-year period, and therefore we do not promote or participate in any proposal for an increase in excess of 50 pst. There is an agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. And we're behind it. So at the ticket price for public transport: the Greens are concerned about it, and it's also the Left. But it's a little bit up to the county councils, those who run these tracks and the buses, to do something about the price. On the part of Stortinget we grant rewards, and this time, too, the negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left were more rewarding than what the government had put up in its government budget, and that money can actually be used to bring down the ticket price. So it's up to the locals. If that's what's most effective to get more people to use public transport and fewer to drive cars, they should actually use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e561	Let me repeat to the last speaker: the gold shall be «home». We're going to have to put that there. First of all, I want to pay tribute to the progress achieved in this matter, by enabling us to adopt it here today. It is right to say that if it had not been for the initiative of the Ministry of Transport, the process would not have started so that we would have been here today. So that reward is going to be given. But at the same time, I cannot – once again – avoid grasping the double communication that is taking place on the part of the Workers' Party. We've had two speakers from the Workers' Party on the pulpit here today, who say it's 70 pst. - only 70 pst. – before we now twice get repeated in the post from Sverre Myrli that it is up to 70 pst. At the same time, I – again – have to be allowed to challenge the fact that even if you increase the proportion on the state side, because increasing the package also reduces the state percentage. Something strange has to be the math thing here. At the same time, without going to mathematics, we can ask the following questions: We are adopting a toll package today. The framework for the toll package has been laid down and is not increased by an increase in the State share. That means, as I see it, there's a strange double communication from the Workers' Party. When do I get an answer to whether – as Leif Sande says – it will either lead to reduced tolls, or whether there are some projects in this package that are not included in today’s package’s decision, which this will lead to? At all, there's going to be a little bit of a strange communication. I think we do best to adopt the package as it exists, and that we can get started. What now limits the progress of this project is not progress from there, but it is time to implement the planning, design and construction to build, project and plan as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e572	When the state pays for all the railway development around Oslo, the state must, in our view, also cover the entire bill for the Urban Railway in Bergen. We are afraid that we will not receive enough funding if too much of the bill is to be taken through tolls from those who are driving a car. In addition, we know that the proportion of people driving a car is going down for the sake of urban air. That is why we propose the following in proposal No. 4, delivered today: «The government is asked to contribute 100 pst. State financing of the collective projects of the Bypakket Bergen.’;» I'll bring that up with our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e582	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e587	In this debate, it may be worth recalling a few things, including: to the representative of Red, and that is that this money now coming through urban capitals, urban environment agreements, reward schemes, etc. comes in addition to the framework grant already granted to the counties to cover their responsibility for public transport. If one believes that because the State finances 100 p.m. by the railway, the State shall also finance 100 pst. of public transport, we must cut the appropriations for the counties accordingly. I don't think I'm lucky. Then a real removal of the role of local democracy in the development of collective solutions begins. That's why it's really good that the states still get these appropriations, and that the state makes some extra contributions in those cities where there are special challenges to being able to expand the infrastructure. But to remove the influence of local politicians, as the Red's proposals and logic would have been promised, I strongly warn against. So it's interesting to observe how the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV have got a lot of money when they're in opposition, but they didn't have money for the same things in position, as they could actually, within the responsible framework, show that they were prioritizing and funding. We have now received criticism from SV because too little money is allowed through the reward scheme and cycling bet despite the fact that the cycling bet in kroner is much higher during the four-year period of today's government than when SV itself crashed. The representative Nävra can cycle and suck as much as he likes, but it is the fact that there is a strong growth in allocations for bicycle paths. So it is true that in some of the posts the money has not been spent. Then the government has not allowed more money for them to be in the account. Then we have allocated the money to other collective projects. But that means that as money is needed, money will come. The same applies to bets. There's no point in giving a lot of money to expand the Fornebubanen now when one is currently only in need of money for planning. But the obligation of 50 pst. funding means that the money will come when the project is started. SV cannot ignore it. The Labour Party has promised in this debate both up to 70 pst. and exactly 70 pst. financing. The representative Myrli talked about up to 70 pst. It's a little strange when we get so many different messages from the Workers' Party in the same room in a short time, because the Workers' Party has promised in this debate that increased government shares will cut the toll level, and also denied that it will be used to cut the toll level. It is highly uncertain what kind of policy the Workers' Party would lead if they gained power. It is actually best that today's majority with clear policies implement this. Similarly, it is interesting that the centre party now suddenly has a lot of money to build up rail in the West – money that was completely lacking when they themselves crashed. Now come the projects. Arna-Voss needs to be built, and I'm glad today's majority ensure it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e610	I'll be brief. I refer to the representative, and my good friend, Sverre Myrlis' post and comment on my post when there was a lack of funding for the increase up to 70 p.m. of the urban packages of the major cities. What I referred to was the lack of consistency between the projects that were added to in the NTP when we dealt with it in ours, including an increase of 70 pst. the financing of urban packages and the funds made available. If I don't remember completely wrong, it was missing over 100 billion. I'm going to get the math to jump. Then I take note of what the representative Myrli informed me, that they have set aside 300 million in their alternative budget for 2018. kr extra for urban packages in the big cities. I take note of that. The challenge is that we already have an ambitious NTP today. Now, if we increase the funding from 50 pst. to 70 pst. in the big cities, we're reducing the chances of implementing the rest of the NTP. As I experience it, we need to focus on how we can now reduce the cost of fulfilling the NTP with all the projects. By increasing from 50 pst. We help to ensure that important priority projects around the country risk simply not being implemented. I do not think that is a good policy, and it does not create predictability in relation to the expectations of the projects that are now part of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e621	There has been a lot of discussion about the ambitions of the Workers' Party about 70 p.m., and there have been so-called doubts about our ambitions. It's referred to the previous red-green government, but this is the fifth budget we're dealing with after that government. The population of Bergen has increased by 20,000 people since the last government. Wage and price growth has been staggering, especially in terms of road development. And as I said in the financial debate, the state of the county roads today – five years later – is a completely different matter than it was then. Hordaland County Council shall use 255 million annually. kr of their rural road infrastructure for the urban package project on the essential infrastructure. Either the funding is at 70 p.m. or up to 70 pst., it's still 115 million. kr for 2018. When it is said that the county is able to be a better weigher, that is not true. Wage and price increases, the tunnel safety regulations and the VAT on bus tickets have eaten up, and I guess so. Over the last five years, there has been an increase every year, and it is important that we continue to monitor developments, including those county councils that have urban packages in addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e631	The progress party is really good at double communication. The advance party votes in Stortinget for one toll collection after the other. Toll collection in Norway is rising steadily, and we have adopted a national transport plan where the volume of toll collection is going to be record high – on a proposal from the Progress Party, adopted by the votes of the Progress Party in the Stortinget. Then is also the case for the Nordhordlands package, which we dealt with a little while ago, for the Urban Package Bergen, which we are dealing with today, and for other toll projects – the Progress Party votes in favour. Instead of talking about its own policies and the fact that there are now many more toll-funded projects, the Progress Party is targeting the opposition, which will increase the government's share of large collective projects. I understand that someone doesn't want to talk about their own policy, and that's how the Progress Party is good. Then others will assess whether they are competent in their communication. I'm at least concerned that we're going to talk about the actual fact that with toll collection we're going to build both road projects and collective projects faster than if we hadn't had toll collection. That's why it's true that we have toll collection both in Bergen and elsewhere. I believe that both the Minister for Transport and the representative of Tom-Christer Nilsen can do this fairly well. The Workers' Party has adopted at its national meeting, which is outlined in the Workers' Party's alternative national transport plan, that the State should contribute up to 70 pst. the financing of large collective investment – ‘until’ because it is not a blank authorisation, ‘until’ because there must be congestion along collective lines and good land use building up under the use of collective means of transport must be required. In Bergen this is done, and therefore there is no mention of «up to 70 pst» in Bergen. The collective development in Bergen is, in our opinion, very good, and therefore the Workers' Party does not believe that we should contribute up to 70 pst in Bergen. We're going to contribute 70 pst. It is also stated in our proposal. And I would like to make it clear that it is in connection with the state funding of the collective projects in the Urban Package of Bergen that we believe the state should contribute 70 pst. We of course support the package as it exists, but 70 pst. to collective investment would have been even better. Then we can end the discussion about what's best of 50 pst. and 70 pst. State funding. I think we should just listen to our big cities: they think it's best with 50 pst. or 70 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e644	State Council Solvik-Olsen repeats the fact that the Central Party does not have funds for rail in the West and does not set aside money in the previous period. I would like to remind you that there was a central party state council that started the plans – one must actually have plans before one does. After a reasonable amount of time, the government has landed on the K5 option. That's good, they should have boasted about it. But there's no willingness to bet – in the collaboration on the NTP with the Christian People's Party and the Left, they haven't got the wrong bet on this piece in the first period of the NTP. That's the problem. We in the Center Party set aside funds to get started earlier with this part and to complete the railway, which can be an important addition to the rest of the public transport in the vicinity of Bergen. I thought it was time for the minister to stop talking about that we haven't had funds. We've refused that once and for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e651	It's interesting to listen to the Workers' Party, which has been sitting and running with two other parties, but which in this debate seem to have not understood what compromise means. Compromise means that different parties come together and find an overall solution that everyone can stand behind, where everyone gives and takes and gets through. The reason why the Progress Party is in government is because we don't have to win everything. We know that then the Right did not want to sit in government with us, either had the Left and Christian People's Party wanted to support us. Ergo, we have to give and take. What we've seen on the toll side is that we've managed to increase the government's share of a number of road projects, compared to what the red-green government had put up with. We've got a grant scheme that, in sum, means we're going to cut tolls by about 12 billion. kr. That is why we support proposals even if we do not get tolls removed, because we are moving in the right direction – a good step in the right direction. I believe everyone who listens to this debate outside this hall understands that this is the world; no one rules everything alone. What's worth noting, and what several of us point out, is that the Workers' Party is now not in a situation where the compromises on politics. Anyway, they're able to have a lot of points of view at once, and that's a little bit weird. The entrance of the Progress Party is still that the state should finance infrastructure, but then we compromise with others and get a lower toll share than if we were in opposition. The Labour Party is in opposition and is able to say in this debate that they should both reduce city package tariffs and not reduce city package tariffs. Then I wonder very much: what is the Labour Party's policy? Or is it such that there are two fractions that cannot compromise, but that present different views until the Workers' Party once makes a decision? For the Western part, it is still a bit strange to hear that there is allegedly a postponement of Arna–Voss, and the like. In the national transport plan in force from 2014 to 2023, there was no single crown to build anything on the Arna–Voss route. Now there is a start-up earlier than in 2023. That means that this has been accelerated under our government. My ambition was to be able to start in 2019/2020 – I admit that. But then we see that the project is more complicated than that, and then we have pointed to 2021/2022. Everything indicates we're gonna make it. It is still much earlier than if the previous government had been governed by the national transport plan they had. It is worth noting that, although all regions in Norway now receive more money through our national transport plan than through the previous national transport plan, Oslo and Akershus received more money per capita than Western, Southern and Middle Norway with the red-green national transport plan. Now the West, Middle Norway and Southland have more than Oslo and Akershus per capita, but there is growth in all areas. Shutting down from the West Midlands Center party when we've obviously strengthened our investment in the West is a bit strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e664	The representative of Nils T. Bjørke has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e669	State Council Solvik-Olsen repeats it: he says he should start up early. Yes, the trade unions have been told to start up the section between Arna and Hängereid, precisely because there are no means to start up with the railway bit, so that a common development of the road and path in the area that is really razed. That's the big problem, and that's the big difference between our proposal and the government proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e674	The representative Sverre Myrli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e679	I believe that this can be done in the simplest way by presenting what our policy is: we are promoting proposals today that the state should contribute 70 pst. the financing of the collective projects of the Bypakket Bergen. This is the proposal that we have made and that comes to voting here today. And as far as I've gained experience, it's identical to what Hordaland County has adopted, what the NHO has adopted, what the LO has adopted, and what the Bergen Food Council has adopted – so serious, it can't be with such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e684	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e700	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e709	I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation – and also the administrative management of the Committee and the Ministry of Transport, who have contributed well to informing us in this matter. In document 8:72 S and document 8:73 S, a number of proposals were made for stricter environmental requirements for the Bergen–Kirkenes coastal route tender for the period 2021 to 2030. There are therefore two proposals for representatives which deal with the same subject. The Committee has therefore examined the two proposals for representatives, from the Left Party and the Labour Party, respectively, collectively in this matter. The proposers have been particularly concerned that the environmental weight of the tender should be set at 30 p.m. and have, in this context, referred to the Storting decision of at least 30 p.m. environmental weighting in public tenders, where appropriate. The proposers also have, among other things: proposed a plan for the creation of shore-side electricity in the main ports, as well as later proposals for the inclusion of climate bonus in the tender. On 19 September 2017, the Ministry of Transport launched tenders for the coastal route for the period 2021-2030, with a tendering deadline of 3 January 2018. It states that all ports on the route shall continue to be served on a daily basis with a contract of 10 years, with the possibility of a one-year extension. The Ministry of Transport has today an agreement with Hurtigruten AS for the period 2012–2019, with the possibility of a one-year extension. This is the first time environmental requirements have been imposed on the coastal route agreement in announced tenders. This shall ensure that climate and environmental requirements contribute to significantly lower CO 2 emissions from the ships serving the route than they currently are. Furthermore, the tendering requirements include the organisation of ships for shore-side electricity and the use of shore-side electricity where available in ports and the use of heavy oil as fuel. Furthermore, the requirements reduce the CO 2 emissions by a minimum of 25 pst. from the level of the day. Then we are behind us for several years when ESA's allegations of illegal State aid have created uncertainty for both the State and Hurtigruten about the current contract. The EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, has concluded that there is no unlawful State aid to Hurtigruten in the current agreement, but ESA has indicated that it is important to facilitate more competition in future purchases of services of this size. The pre-notification of the Ministry of Transport in the case indicates that the ESA's preliminary assessment is that the tender is designed in such a way as to facilitate the avoidance of unlawful State aid. In particular, the ESA indicates that the tender is divided into three packages to open and facilitate real competition. After all, the offer of coastlines and businesses shall be based on a good offer for the coastal and commercial communities with daily calls between Bergen and the Churches, so that climate requirements in tenders must reflect the best available commercial technology at the time of the tender, in order to achieve real competition. It must be operationally safe and deal with arctic conditions. At the same time, the challenge in this case has been that the tender must meet ESA’s requirements under State aid law and that the time limit for the launch of new coastal route offers must be maintained. The Ministry's legal assessments to the Committee have shown that proposed changes to the terms of the tender in this case are likely to have to mean that the tender must be cancelled and the process reopened, which would at the same time entail an economic risk and create uncertainty as to whether a new contractor will have sufficient time to put operational material in place before the end of the current contract. The majority of the Committee considers this to be irresponsible and recommends that the proposals be rejected and that the process be completed in line with the conditions laid down in the call for tenders. The minority – the proposers from the Workers’ Party and SV – have promoted new and amended proposals along the way. I expect that they themselves will explain this and, if necessary, promote the proposals here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e740	One does not have to travel much along the coast of the West, in Trøndelag or in North Norway until one understands the importance and interest of the fast route, or the coast route, as it is now right to call it. All the requests we have received in the course of the discussion of the two proposals we are considering today also show the great commitment of the coastal route. Kystruta is a unique concept for the local transport of both passengers and goods and a world-class experience offer. The State purchases services for the Bergen–Kirkenes coastal route for relatively large sums. A new tender is now being launched for the 10-year period from 2021, or – more specifically – tenders have been made. The working party believes that we should take advantage of the possibility of demanding new and modern vessels. Some environmental requirements have been correctly laid down in the new tender. CO 2 emissions of 25 pst have been required. from the level of the day. But there is no requirement for cuts in NO x, sulphur or particles. In the view of the Labour Party, that is not good enough. In examining the 2016 state budget, i.e. in December 2015 – exactly two years ago – Stortinget decided to impose a minimum of 30 pst. environmental weights for all public tenders, where applicable. In the view of the Workers' Party, this is absolutely relevant in the context of the coastal route offer. But unfortunately, the government hasn't added up to that. The size decision has not been followed up. What is contained in the tender is, in our opinion, too ambitious, and therefore we promoted the proposal for a representative, which is one of the two we now have to deal with. At the same time, we have been quite clear from the Labour Party that we will not postpone the tender that has been announced, so our approach in this debate was that we should use the space for action within the tender sent out to impose stricter environmental requirements. The offer of crystals can provide new, high opportunities for Norwegian industry if strict environmental requirements are introduced. The requirements laid down by the Government in the tender are probably less ambitious in terms of ships than those already available to the Norwegian shipbuilding industry by vessels. It's too bad. As I said, the Labour Party will not delay the tender. We don't know too little about the consequences of that, so we're not prepared to be part of it. When the Minister of Transport writes to Stortinget in the form of a letter that there is no requirement for environmental weight without re-opening the tender, we are in a difficult situation. But all the proposals that have been put forward in the Chamber indicate that the Storting is ambitious, that the Storting is impatient, and that the vote, the committee's comments and all the proposals cannot be interpreted differently than the majority of the population believe that the government has simply not done its job here. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to address the proposals No. 1, 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party and SV and proposal No. 4 from the Workers' Party. Then we will listen to the debate before we decide which of the other proposals we want to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e761	The representative Sverre Myrli has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e766	Let me first thank the rapporteur and the Cooperation Committee. Today, we are discussing two representative proposals, from the Workers' Party and the SV respectively, to base stricter environmental requirements on the acquisition of the Bergen–Kirkenes coastal route for the period 2021–2030 and to modify the offer on the coastal route. The right-hand Party Government is committed to ensuring a good and environmentally friendly maritime transport service for the coastal communities between Bergen and the Kirkenes, and the coastal route offer follows up the national transport plan, which states that the service will continue to be performed with full-year, day-to-day and continuous sailing calls at the same 34 ports as today. The tender has already included a requirement of 25 pst. reduction of CO 2 emissions. Furthermore, bans on the use of heavy oil have been introduced as well as requirements for the organisation of shore-side power boats, which have to use shore-side electricity at port. Furthermore, the offer is divided into three packages to facilitate increased competition for the coastal route. The offer has a deadline of 3 January 2018, starting on 1 January 2021, at the end of the current contract. This is not a long time to provide the necessary ships and prepare such a demanding service as a coastal route in arctic and demanding waters. The requirements are minimum requirements and companies are able to provide environmental solutions in addition to those minimum requirements. On the other hand, additional emission requirements will have to be met by the possible application of non-current technologies. We believe that providers cannot base an offer on future technology, it must be based on current technology and infrastructure. Further emission requirements will be far more expensive, as the operator will have to praise the risks posed by this immature technology. In addition, it is also highly uncertain whether the technology is commercially and technically available. This bill from the Workers' Party and SV is the seventh and last of all the coastal population and tourists who will have to pay. Furthermore, if the tender is put together in a single package, it could distort competition. We already have several allegations from ESA about illegal State aid to Hurtigruten AS, which has created uncertainty about the current contract. The ESA has come to the conclusion that there is no illegal State aid but has nevertheless indicated that it is important to facilitate more competition in future purchases of services of this magnitude. This is done by dividing the tender into three packages, and the ESA's preliminary assessment is that the tender is designed in such a way as to facilitate the avoidance of unlawful State aid. In particular, ESA indicates that the tender is divided into three packages to open and facilitate increased competition. Coastal vessels shall operate in Arctic waters with strict operational stability requirements. We cannot then make a comprehensive tender with eleven large ships as a development contract. This will mean gambling with a very important offering for the coast, which 400,000 people and large quantities of goods depend on every single year. A suspension of the coastal route offer will make it impossible to complete the process within the time limit for the expiry of today’s contract, a process that is already overtime. This will impose significant additional costs on taxpayers, weaken competition and give ESA an additional argument to challenge Norway again on the premises of the tender. With the attention given by ESA to today’s coastal route agreement, there is likely to be little room for transitional arrangements bringing benefits to Hurtigruten AS. Such a postponement of the tender could have an adverse impact on coastal, industrial and coastal staff and could, in the utmost consequence, put an end to the coastal route over a longer period of time. The Party agrees that reducing emissions is important. Therefore, the offer also requires 25 pst. reduction, and we are pleased that the government has for the first time introduced such a requirement in the coastal route offer. Let me then draw the attention in the Chamber to the proposals No. 15 and 16, from the Right and Advance Party. It would be a good and nice Christmas gift for the whole of District Norway along the whole coast and for everyone who is happy on the coast. I hope that this House can see the seriousness of this, and that they support the proposals today. It's actually about the whole of Coast Norway – about pride there – and about a lot of jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e790	‘When the fast route called far out from and said she was in the north with a cardboard bag with cats and with eggs that didn't have to be broken [[...]] with high shouts and cables thrown hard against Kaia to be attached’. In these lines from Kari Bremnes’ growth in Lofoten is really the core of the central party’s position on this matter, namely life along the coast. The centre party considers that a postponement or a new call beyond the target line of the time limit is irresponsible for the people and the industry along the coast. We know that there are different opinions about how long the suspension will be required, and we know that ESA is a ghost in the background, but this is enough for us to choose stability for people and businesses along the coast over this uncertainty. Although the Central Party voted against the proposals for the Workers' Party and the Swedish Transport Committee, we do not like the government's handling of the fast-track offer on several points. We're critical of the environment. We believe that the government should have given greater emphasis to environmental considerations, and we point out that the Storting has repeatedly adopted requirements for environmental weighting and emission reduction. We also believe that the offer could have been used for technological innovation, for the benefit of both Norwegian industry and the environment. The centre lot is occupied by the freight transport operations on the fast route. We believe that the requirement for the loading space should have been higher, and that it should have listened more to the food industry. This could be an important contribution to achieving the Storting's objective of transferring more goods from road to sea. It should have been included in the environmental weight of the tender. But I would like to stress that I think it is good that the tender contains requirements for both cooling and freezing capacity. We are also critical of working conditions. The Government informs the Stortinget that Norwegian terms and public tariff agreements are required in the part covered by the State purchase. We ask questions by saying that this is not a requirement for the supplier as a whole, and we believe that it is unfortunate if the assessment is such that it violates the EEA Agreement. The centre party is quite clear that Norwegian legislation is to go ahead of EEA requirements in Norwegian working life, especially when the country is a buyer. The State has a major responsibility to avoid social dumping. It is also regrettable that the EEA Agreement appears to limit the amount of loading space for goods that can be entered into the country’s agreement with the Coast. In fact, ESA places too many restrictions on the Norwegian action space. The central party believes that the daily voyage of the Kystruten along the coast between Bergen and Kirkenes with 34 stops is very important, and we will stress that we think it is important that there should also be a continuous daily route in all ports that are currently under call in the future. Nor do we want the State to take on a large financial risk by having to go to direct purchase through the use of the emergency provision in the procurement legislation. Rather, this money can be inserted into the proposal that the Centre Party intends to make; we have an environmental improvement proposal that is very clear that the tender should proceed. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to negotiate an environmental bonus agreement for which shipping companies may be compensated for each tonne of CO 2 which is reduced in addition to the requirements of the offer during the contract period after the conclusion of a contract with the operator of Kystruta.’; [[none]] I would like to address this proposal, proposal No. 11th from the Center Party. Then I will also report that the Central Party will support the Christian People's Party's proposal No. 9 and 10 in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e829	The representative Siv Mossleth has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e834	If the Council of State had taken the regulation of public acquisitions seriously, and also taken requests and signals from the Storting seriously, we would have had no meeting here in the hall five days before Christmas. Or another way to say: if the Council of State had added environmental weight to the tender and seen that this could actually have brought significant climate gains in the Norwegian accounts, we would have had no case here in the hall today. If the Council of State had taken the information and wanted from strong players in the industry themselves seriously, from those who say they want stronger environmental requirements and are ready with technology in a short time, we would have had no case here today either. SV finds it regrettable that there is no environmental weight on the basis of the call for tenders. Tenders for 25 pst. the reduction of CO 2 emissions is virtually nothing when you think that the tender will last for 10 years. The offer is not in line with important decisions on size and is also relevant to the offer of the coastal route, including: in 30 p.m. environmental weights in the case of public tenders. If the Council of State did not take on political signals or decisions from the Storting, he could still have seen the way the technological wind blows. Maybe 60 ferries will be electrical in four years? Central actors in the maritime industry want more stringent requirements, only look at the renewable cluster in Trondheim. It consists of private enterprises, organisations and public enterprises that work with renewable energy. Fifty enterprises participate in the network in the cluster. Among the members are Siemens, Powel, PBES, ASKO, Kongsberg, NTE, TronderEnergy and Statoil. When technologically demanding vessel requirements – or modules – are to be built, Norwegian operators often win the tenders. The Kystruta could be an exhibition window to the world. There must be some weakness in the political leadership of the Ministry of Transport if one is not specifically concerned with the important environmental aspect. This technology can become an export technology and an important piece in the transition to a greener business. Just as oil and gas technology has been – or now: offshore wind power and a possible pilot of liquid wind power in Norway. There is hardly any country that has better preconditions for taking management internationally on a low- and zero-emission technology in shipping than just Norway. There is a short way from knowledge of shipping in general, oil and gas, shipbuilding, hydropower and wind turbines to a business in transition to more green and sustainable activities. This is a golden opportunity for the Norwegian forward-looking maritime industry – and then we don't arrest it! Both from the government and from several parties in the opposition, fears have been expressed about the suspension of the tender, including: from the Centre Party. It is feared that the operators will not be able to build or rebuild new ships, or that a postponement will cost too much. Well, once again: it is not we who are critical of the poor environmental requirements and the poor political craftsmanship of political leadership in the department, who should be left with black teapots if that should happen, it is the Council of State and the Government that should do. We have found that there is nothing new about the cancellation of public tenders in shipping. This has been done by Moss-Horten-ferga and by two ferries on E39 after the budget agreement in Stortinget made stricter environmental requirements for public tenders. This is dangerous near the current situation. I note that a majority here in the Chamber criticises the lack of environmental weight in the coastal route offer. It seems that we do not have a majority in favour of a call for a new tender that follows up previous decisions on aggregates, which are forward-looking and sensible both for the environment and for Norwegian business. It's just a complaint. It is a pity that the majority of the population did not even more strongly tell the Council of State where to stand in relation to the environmental weight of tenders. SV has worked a lot on this matter, and as you can see, there have been many proposals on the way to reaching a possible majority for stricter requirements in the tender. But I want to bring up all the suggestions that SV is behind. Then it is free for any party and any representative to shop for suggestions at their own request. I also warn of support for all the proposals – even if they are quite diluted – that have been submitted, except for the loose proposals from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e854	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e859	The left is pleased that environmental requirements have been laid down for the first time in the coastal route agreement. Then I stay a little bit at the concept of the coastal route agreement. In my case, these proposals came one of the first days of the Grand Duchy this autumn, and not least the debate on the tendering requirements was strict enough. I have to admit that I didn't quite understand what they were talking about, because I've really only related myself to the proper name «Hurtigruta». Even ‘Swift gruta’, I think I had understood better than ‘Kystruta’, but now I’m also familiar with the name Kystrutten Bergen–Kirkenes. The left considers that the environmental requirements of the tender are not good enough. Here we expected something a lot more and better. Both Sverre Myrli, Siv Mossleth and Arne Nävra referred to the 2015 Stortinget decision, where Stortinget asks ‘the government imposes a minimum requirement of 30 pst. environmental weights for all public tenders, where applicable.’;» You can ask yourself whether this offer is not relevant. The left believes that it should have been in the middle of the blink to use the requirement in this tender. To put it even more strongly, in which bidding rounds is this important decision not to be used if not here? The left has very good faith in technological solutions to address climate challenges. At the same time, we believe that Norway can take advantage of the technological development of good trade goods for Norway. The fast route is today an international exhibition window because it travels in scenic and therefore tourist-friendly areas. By making strict demands – with ships that could have been fossil-free by 2030 – we could really have contributed to an industry that needs to improve environmental requirements in terms of both CO 2 emissions and local pollution. The Ministry of Transport has made a wise choice when they have divided the bid into three packages — with four, four and three ships. I also see that the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, is well pleased with this. In that case, one must be able to hope for real competition. When the packages became such to stimulate more companies to deliver offers, it is incomprehensible to me that we could not split the packages even with different environmental objectives and thus much more stringent requirements in sum compared to what is out there today. We must challenge both the shipping companies and the suppliers of ships, so that a market can be created for those who want to contribute to it. The green shift has to be solved here at home, and we could contribute strongly internationally as well. It could actually be green growth of this. As far as the proposals are concerned, the Left and the Left have their own proposals, but in the alternative, we will support the proposals. 1 to 4. The solved proposals are – as Mr Nävra said instead – very watered down, and we do not fully see any environmental benefits being achieved by adopting them today, but we can keep the hatch open. Proposal No. 11 and proposals Nos. 15 and 16 will probably support the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e876	For the first time, the State imposes specific requirements on climate and environmental solutions in the coastal route offer. Requirements are made to reduce CO 2 emissions from the ships serving the coastal route by a minimum of 25 pst. from the level of the day. In addition, all ships are required to be equipped with shore-side electricity and to use shore-side electricity where it is available in ports. Furthermore, heavy oil is required not to be used as a fuel. Despite these requirements, we would like to see a few more improvements made from the start, as the competition became bright. Ten years is a long time from a technological development perspective. We would like to see the level of ambition even higher, but the process has now come so far that in our opinion it is irresponsible to cancel the competition. The Christian People's Party will not play the coastal route. Every year, the Christian People's Party has been a hot defender of the coast route and we've been very clear that the coast should have a stable and good offer. The sailing pattern shall be at least as good as today. We stand firm on that, and we will not contribute to uncertainty by the fact that the competition to operate the coast route now has to be cancelled. The Christian People's Party is committed to what we have said, at the latest in the context of NTP: the service will continue to be carried out with annual, daily and continuous sailing, with calls in the same 34 ports as today. If new criteria are introduced into the tender now, which are considered to be substantial changes, competition must be cancelled and re-launched. Then it is doubtful whether you can get started before the current agreement expires. The competition for the coast route was announced on 19 September 2017. The deadline for operators is 3 January 2018 and a new agreement shall be concluded by the end of the first quarter 2018. This gives the contracting suppliers about 2 years and 9 months to prepare for the start of operations on 1 January 2021. It's not long. On the contrary, it is short time to provide the necessary ships and prepare a demanding service, which is the coast route. At the same time, we have to remember where these ships are going. This is not about putting around inside the Oslo soil. Here we're talking about completely different relationships. People who use these ships know that very well. The regulatory framework for public acquisitions limits the changes that may be made to the basis of competition following a call for competition. The amendments, which have already been submitted, shall not be significant. The introduction of climate and environment as an award criterion will, in our view, be a significant change in the tender, requiring a call for tender to be cancelled and then a new call for tenders. Delays in competition will be unfortunate for several reasons. As I've been through, it's already been put up for a tight period of time. A later conclusion of the contract presents a significant risk that it is not possible for suppliers to reach the start time. If the competitors in question do not want to participate in the competition due to short start-up times, they have not been able to facilitate effective competition. It may make it difficult to secure a contract in line with State aid law. At the same time, there is a discussion about what is the actual space for action here, what you can do without having to cancel the competition. But we have to remember that we have already had a case with ESA in relation to Hurtigruten. The State pays a significant compensation for the Coastal Route Service, and in 2017 it is 682 million. kr. This is because the service is important: the coast is highway 1. The Christian People's Party does not want us to end up in a new state aid case that jeopardises the entire offer. The steps taken to facilitate effective competition are good. Although I sympathise with the fact that more stringent environmental requirements will be required, I think it is irresponsible to adopt something that jeopardises the offer. At the same time, we want to make sure that we have effective instruments that contribute to emissions reduction within the space of action we now have. Therefore, the Christian People's Party promotes two proposals to which we hope to join as much as possible. It goes on the CO 2 fund, it's going to be wide enough to cover the coastal route, and it goes on the Enova instrument. The aim is to provide better incentives for emissions reduction and a faster transition in a more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly direction. This is what we believe to be right and good measures, and there are measures that do not endanger the supply along the coast. The Christian People's Party does not vote from the proposals of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. So the Christian People's Party supports the committee's recommendation, and I take up the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e910	Then the representative Hans Fredrik Groevan has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e915	Once again, we have been given an example that blue politics and a blue-blue government produce gray growth, despite green rhetoric. This government has chosen to disregard previous decisions on the size and the golden opportunity to give us an emission-free coast and a shipping industry that lies a horse head at the front of the road to the zero-emission society. The size has asked the government to introduce requirements for a minimum of 30 pst. environmental weights for all public tenders, where applicable. It would be interesting to know why the government does not see the fast route offer as relevant. If not now, when then? This is a tender where all those concerned with green growth see that it is relevant to apply environmental weights – but not a blue-blue government. Coastal traffic is the next area where Norway can choose to be at the forefront. To an even greater extent than the electric car effort, this is an area that can give Norway considerable competitive advantage. The electric car bet provides business opportunities to Norwegian companies, such as: Zaptec, an innovative charging solution that integrates electric cars smartly into the mains power supply. In the case of ships, we've already built the world's first electric ferry, the world's first plug-in hybrid ferry. As a coastal shipping nation, we have the very best conditions for developing this very important industry in an emission-free direction. But does the blue-blue government want to exploit it and build it up under this possibility? No, they choose to base – on purpose. So it's hard to give anything other than the impressions of green growth, also here. When the government does not want to help push ahead with the development of zero-emission solutions, rather to help the Norwegian shipping industry get assignments that both contribute to technological development and thereby improve competitiveness, the size of the road is forced back. As several representatives before me have mentioned: The Storting has already asked the government to impose a minimum of 30 pst. environmental weights for all public tenders, where applicable. But it rarely happens. That is why I have today, together with the representatives of Barth Eide, Botten and Aasrud, promoted a proposal for a representative to remove remaining barriers to green procurement. One of the barriers that research into green procurement has raised is the lack of – if you want – strategic focus on green acquisitions. At all levels, from municipalities to departments, this is neither measured nor reported. Unfortunately, this case is a gruesome example of this, and it updates the need for further action in this area. Hopefully, this time, the Storting will be able to put the frames that will force blue-blue buyers to become green, and not just gray.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e930	Sailing with the fast route up our coast, with calls at 34 different ports, and seeing how local business and local travelers use this as a transport year, while both Norwegian and foreign tourists see our coast in a pleasant and almost nationally proud way, is very good. That's what we want to facilitate for further. For this reason, we have launched a bid to maintain sailing patterns, which will take care of the ports that have built up infrastructure today, and the communities that depend on the fast route. When the coast route is re-opened – this is not the first time, that is how we have done this, across different governments – we have said that we want to strengthen this. We want to strengthen it in the sense that we are going to take greater environmental considerations than any government before we have, that we are demanding that one not use heavy oil, that we demand that one use shore power where it is available, and that we demand that the CO 2 emissions should be reduced by 25 pst. average over the period. Hearing this debate now gives the impression that nothing has happened, and that someone has almost moved backwards. That's not the case, so let's establish it. It is important that local communities, nation, tourists and others who use this should know that ships are leaving when planned. It's also part of having an offer along the coast. I think that the proposals that the Workers' Party and SV have made here put this at risk because a boat came in long after the tender was cancelled, and will change it only a few weeks before the deadline for submitting a tender expires. How many shipowners will take the risk of submitting a tender at all? Do we really want to risk standing without an offer along the coast? I don't want to take that risk. At the same time, I agree that we should use the opportunity to look at technology, to develop solutions that are more emission-free, and to take Norway in that direction. The Ministry of Transport and the Government of today have extensive experience with this. Several have already mentioned in the debate that over 50 ferries will have battery packs on board during 2020. We have development contracts for hydrogen ferries. The Ministry of Industry and Fisheries makes available funds for green technology in shipping towards the yard industry and shipowners. We have a support system to establish new routes for freight transport along the coast. There are a lot of different approaches, which are embraced by the industries. We get criticism because we didn't assume that one should have an environmental weight of 30 pst. Well, there's no guarantee that one gets cut off, because one could imagine that one actor had put all the effort into winning at price and only at price and had not done anything for the environment, while another had introduced many expensive environmental measures, but got a price that was so much higher that despite the environmental weight, it was the one that only weighted the price and not the environment, as usual. There's a risk of this. That is why we have made an assessment in the market, including: based on the experience we have with developing battery ferries and hydrogen ferries and with the tenders we have for Anda-Lote and elsewhere where we were going to have battery, and saw that there are significant differences in the technology you need for a bid of 34 ports, from Bergen to Kirkenes, in the Arctic climate, where you have both very short and very long lay time. This means that shore-side electricity in some places is relevant and elsewhere not, unless one should extend the bedtime in many places, because then a much more than eleven ships need to meet the need. With that experience, we have thought that it is better that we set environmental requirements that everyone has to meet, rather than that some are allowed to gamble on price, when the technology costs are so uncertain. We have met with those from the supplier industry who want more stringent requirements – it is primarily from the supplier industry you hear it – and we have asked: What is the cost of this? What guarantees do you have that these are technologies available on the market, without any specific risk margin for those who are to submit the tender? The answer is, we don't know that. How, in all days, a company should be able to price this into its tender to the country when even the supplier market is unable to tell exactly what the price is. I don't need two lines under the answer, I don't even need one line under the answer. Just give me a room for action here. Let's talk about 50 million. kr extra per ship, 100 mill. kr extra per ship, 500 mill. extra kr per ship? We're not getting any hint. When we talk to the Maritime Forum, the NHO Maritime Forum, the Shipowners' Association and others, everyone points out that there is too much uncertainty that one can today price this into a tender. Therefore, environmental weighting is a poorer proposal than setting environmental requirements to which everyone has to relate. When we also know what challenges we have had with ESA on competition, it is important that we have a functioning competition where not only one company ends up submitting tenders. Then it had not become a coastal route offer at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e954	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e959	In a letter to the Committee of 7 December, the Council of State states that introducing the climate and environment as an award criterion would represent a significant change in the tender, requiring that competition be cancelled and subsequently re-opened. In his report, the rapporteur, Mr Finstad, said something such as that the requirement to weigh the environment is likely to result in a postponement of the tender. Will require 30 pst. environmental weighting means that the offer of the coastal route must be re-exposed, or will it not?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e966	What we have communicated very clearly, both to the Stortinget and in the media, is that if one makes significant changes to a tender, one must re-examine it. Most likely, if one sets the type of requirements that the Workers' Party, SV and others have promoted here, one will have to re-examine it. It means a significant delay. I thought it was very good when the representative Myrli earlier said in the debate that the Workers' Party would not be involved in postponing or delaying the tender. There are completely different signals than the representative Else-May Botten gave to the NRK, to the Technical Weekly and to other media on November 8th, when she claimed that this was a lot of room for action and that it was important to put the process on hold, so that you could figure out all the possibilities. It's a different policy than the Workers' Party is currently running. I hope the Workers' Party is dealing with the policy that Myrli has launched in Stortinget, and not with what has been the starting point of the Workers' Party. The important thing is that making a major change means that the tender has to be re-opened. Alternatively, there is a significant risk that we will get it cancelled through State aid law and other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e975	I'm a little surprised by the Minister of Transport's response. I would recommend that he take Stortinget a little more seriously than what we now experience. Yes, the Workers' Party has believed that what has been done has been too bad. However, when the Minister for Transport writes to the Committee that introducing climate and environment as an award criterion will require that competition be cancelled and then re-opened, it is so essential that we, as a responsible party, choose to focus on it. The case rapporteur was not as precise as what came in the written letter from the department, and now the Minister of Transport is not, either. Now he is more woolly and not so clear that such a requirement for environmental weight will result in the re-opening of the tender. That's interesting, and it essentially changes the whole perception of our approach, of our approach to not requiring it to be added 30 pst. environmental weight, is the letter from the Minister for Transport. The question is, does it mean that it has to be re-exposed, or does it not?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e984	Our assessment is that yes, that must be done, and I have just said that. It's very likely. Our assessment is that if someone makes new demands now, at that time, of that extent, it means that there is a need for a new tender because there is a significant change. I would strongly warn against that. I would like to strongly warn against the proposals made by the Labour Party and the SV. They will most likely mean that the tender will be delayed in the sense that one will not have a fast-haul or coastal route offer along our coast. I am very pleased with the signals that the representative Myrli joined in the debate, but a little bit more uncertain about where I have the representative Myrli now. Now it seems like a searcher is looking for opportunities to create doubt on his own. Until recently in the media debate, the Labour Party has claimed that this was a huge room for action. The Workers' Party now places emphasis on the letter that came from the Ministry of Transport. I think the Workers' Party is doing very wisely, and I would recommend that one do so in the further processing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e991	On the radio this morning, I heard that state councils were raw to make decisions, and I think they are also quite raw to defend their own decisions. Perhaps this coastal route offer is a matter where the Council of State has been a little too soon in the decision. The Council of State said in its statement that the requirement of 30 pst. environmental weight may result in worse results than no environmental weight. I would like to ask the Council of State if he sees no possibility of fulfilling the intention of the Resolution of 30 p.m. environmental weight for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e998	What I tried to spend some time on was not to say that it is environmental weight or no environmental weight. But setting environmental requirements that are general – in our case 25 pst. cut, as all tenderers will have to meet – it is likely that environmental performance will be greater than not to put environmental requirements at the bottom, but focus on environmental considerations where individual tenderers only relate to the legislation applicable to shipping and then apply their own proposed environmental measures. What we have to remember is that a lot of Hurtigruten's offer today, when they deliver on the coast route offer – as they won – is purely commercial. It meets the environmental requirements generally applicable to shipping. We have said that in our coastal route offer we will make demands beyond that. As the centre batch controlled this and had the last tender, there was no environmental requirement beyond the usual requirements. We are making stricter demands. We believe that we get better results by setting them generally than having normal shipping requirements, but an environmental weight at the bottom. It's an assessment we've done, based on the fact that we want the best possible environmental protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1006	There have been many references today to the decision to raise the issue on December 3, 2015, of 30 pst. environmental weights in the case of public tenders. Does the Council of State consider that the tender announced is in line with that decision? Then I have another question: if the Council of State doesn't like this with environmental weight, he couldn't have thought of it, for example. making a stronger requirement for emission reduction, e.g. 50 pst. in a two-stage rocket – so you could imagine 50 pst. in three years? Anyone who follows in the development of this technology in Norway knows that then technology and industry and maritime industry would be there, and then we neglect an opportunity over the ten years of the tender. Can the Council of State answer these two questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1015	If we look together at what this government and this majority are doing to reduce emissions from shipping, it's pretty formidable. Because it's not just the fast route sailing along the coast, it's sailing thousands of ships. And there we have through the effort we make on ferries, through what we do on Enova, through what we do on reduced port charges for environmentally friendly ships, what we do through green technology to the yards, and so on, a very wide portfolio. That portfolio could also be used on the ships operating the route in the future. It's not like we're missing out on an opportunity for the eternal future. What is important, however, is that if companies are to be invited to submit tenders as early as January, where they commit themselves to achieving a target that is to be achieved by 2030, which is quite binding in the sense that if they fail to do so, they will have a downside – if they are to determine what technology to have, what cost they will have – and win that tender, then there must be a certain predictability. It is not by requiring emissions to be reduced by 50 pst. already in three years, without any indication of the cost framework for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1022	Then I will follow up on the concrete question: Could the Council of State not then think three to four years ahead? A tender could have been made as a two-stage process. Because I am fully aware that the Council of State has had contact with many key players in the business community who say that the technology is there in two to three years, to very strong demands. Then we have a floating exhibition window, and we have opportunities to get a signature in the world. Norway as a shipping nation is being listened to, we are being looked at, and I am absolutely convinced that this will have much greater impact – at least as much as many of the tumultuous plans that many of us stand for, with liquid wind power and other. This is an important piece that I'd like to ask the Council of State to think carefully about – in terms of possible bonus schemes within the framework, which at least does not provide for deferral.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1031	Before I became a politician, I worked in the shipping company. I've seen how you've handled different contracts, different competitions, where you're going to invest in ships for billions of dollars. If you're going to deal with an undefined requirement in the future, where you don't have the ability to calculate what this will cost, it'll probably mean that we lose companies that would normally put in an offer, but that sit on the sideline and say that there's too much risk here. So we have development contracts on hydrogen ferries in controlled environments where we're the only buyer. This is not the case with regard to, for example: The fast route delivers today. There's a lot of commercial. We've also done a lot of battery technology. The point here is that Enova will still have all the same tools to make sure that we get the lighthouses that SV wants, but without jeopardizing the coast route offer. That SV says that it is very easy just to meet demands, we remember from the lunar landing debate, where SV already said in 2005 that one would get CO 2 cleaning at Kårstø in 2009. We know how it went. I don't want to take the same risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1043	I want to follow up Arne Nävra's question as to whether you could do something different with the offer – and the council understands that Left and SV have found each other in this particular case. We have great responsibilities for the future. Now this is divided into three packages – four, four and three ships – according to ESA requirements. Not least there will be very many ships, eleven ships. Was it also assessed to have different environmental requirements? Could there be different environmental requirements? Not least the time when the different packages could be phased in. Was it under assessment when this tender was sent out?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1050	We've made a lot of assessments. The government in the department and our professionals in the agencies have been very good at making us understand the assessment of where the technology is, how mature the technology exists, and how the shipping companies will assess the world around them in terms of calculating bids. Do we risk standing without providers if we impose strict requirements, or do we miss opportunities if we make weak demands? It is simply an assessment that we have had, which I also feel that both the Maritime Forum, the Shipowners' Association and the NHO Maritime Administration have confirmed: that it must be possible for an offer to be made by a provider which makes the risk manageable, while at the same time having an instrument through Enova and others that makes it possible for us, irrespective of who sails, to take action both within shipping and coastal routes and elsewhere. That's the assessment we've made – because what I don't want to risk is that we're off-shore. And that is what one sees is at risk of the proposals that the Workers' Party and SV have promoted in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1059	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1066	This is a matter that creates great commitment, and that is not so strange. It is an important offer for the entire coastal population, it is an important offer for our country. There is a difference in definition here as to what is considered as a strict environmental requirement in such a tender. Strict environmental requirements in such a tender must weigh both the reduced emissions requirement and the operational stability, predictability and feasibility of carrying out the tender process with available technology. That is why 25 pst is required. reduction of emissions, land flow planning requirements and prohibition of heavy oil use. All of that will be a significant improvement from today's situation. For the Right, it is important that the coast route is operational, that it goes on a regular basis, that it is predictable and that we can put in place a cost-effective offer based on an available technology that enables us to meet the requirements of coastal regularity. In this process, new proposals for environmental requirements have now been made by both the Workers' Party and the SV, but also by other parties. What seems obvious to me is that if we are to make new demands in the tendering process now, which is essential, we will have to re-examine this – finish the existing tendering process and start a new round. That risk is not right-wing, and therefore we do not want to go into any of those proposals, regardless of whether there are requirements for an environmental bonus. Our assessment is that there should be a significant environmental bonus that has effect, it will also be essential for the tender, and we will not go into that type of proposal. Nor will we go into proposals for environmental weighting requirements, for exactly the same reason – because it will be essential for the tendering process and put the entire coastal route offer at risk. So short about our own suggestions. We share the intention of the Christian People's Party in its two proposals. And then I think maybe we could put ourselves a little bit different -- for two reasons. One is that because a CO2 fund is to be negotiated, I think it is right to point to the negotiating mandate and what the government should follow up in such a negotiating mandate, rather than to be clear on what the final result will be. Here we are to respect the fact that it is to be negotiated with the trade organisations. In addition, in the case of Enova, I think we are better off getting wider, where the coast route is also part of the totality, and in this way avoid getting more ESA issues or State aid issues related to this type of proposal. With that, I would like to raise the Right and the Procedural Party's proposal No. 15 and 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1081	The representative Helge Orten has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1086	It is felt that this has been an unnecessary polarised debate, a debate in which one can get the impression that it will be impossible for Norway to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement if we do not reverse the coastal route supply base in order to impose stricter environmental requirements. Of course it's not like that. Environmental requirements have been laid down for the supply to ensure that we are able to meet the most important requirement, namely a coastal route which has a technological level that several tenderers can reach and which has tested technology far by the way within the framework of infrastructure on land that we know today. Nevertheless, there is increased environmental requirements in relation to the route of the day. Making environmental ambitions even higher is easier to do after the government has submitted a national alternative fuel infrastructure plan in the transport sector and has been dealt with by the Stortinge. Only then will there be a common direction for the current energy carrier. Only then do we know if it's electricity, battery, fuel cells, hydrogen or biogas it's being prepared in our ports. Infrastructure on land is essential for the energy impacts it will provide for in the ships. I am both proud and pleased that the industry itself is now seeing great ambitions and goals for technology development in this area. We read daily about innovations within the sector that help bring us into the green shift. These are effective hull types, propellers, energy carriers, which can reduce emissions and make energy use more efficient. This shows that the incentive schemes provided by the government work. It shows that the migration programme and the feeder promote innovation and development. I think that this process has shown us that the potential in the maritime industry and in business clusters is great as a contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. What we need to do is to get a code in place to take advantage of the new opportunities offered by the new technology, and we also need to work internationally to set requirements for the ship's fleet. However, we need to know that it is the right tools that will be used when it comes to economic efforts and greenhouse gas emissions. It says nothing about this. Therefore, it is not right to go on the hasty solutions and risk the loss of time, costs, route flexibility and reputation, as this would facilitate the acceptance of the submission.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1101	The representative, Siv Mossleth, has done a good job for the Central Party. I took the floor to ask for something that I have not seen demonstrated in the debate, namely that 30 pst. environmental weighting will result in a greater reduction of emissions than minimum requirements. There is no guarantee that an environmental weight will increase the reduction in emissions. Of course, the centre party would want the requirements that were imposed to be more stringent, but it is also important to say that this is not a maximum requirement, but a minimum requirement for what the reduction should be. The centre party has made a loose proposal which will contribute to further reductions. It is important to clarify that there is a proposal that lives completely independent of supply, and it is clear from the wording that that is what it is for. For the Central Party, this case is about stability and security for us to have – let me use the word – the fast route along the coast every day in all ports. But it's also about public procurement for 500 billion. kr per year. Yes, then you can have legal discussions about whether you are required to change the offer if you make these changes. I mean absolutely that it is a legal obligation to do, but it is also a matter of today being 20 December, and the deadline is 3 January. Then it's about the country's seriousness when it's about taking in offers and making public purchases. There is an important element in this. So it's said that there can also be demands for what's going to happen in three and four years. I don't think even we'll see the bill as a fleet layer will deliver to take a risk of something that might happen. It is better that we have a general framework, that we have mechanisms that stimulate the use of this technology when it comes. For the Central Party, the most important thing is that we have departures every day, that one has the ports of call that one has. I'm afraid that the greatest possibility of a shooting with the Workers' Party, the SV and the Left's view is that the ship doesn't go along the coast and thus doesn't pollute anything. It is not the Central Party willing to do so. We stand up for the fast route, and we voice in line with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1115	In the future, we have to transport ourselves and our goods without emissions. Then it's good to know that the solutions of the future are already here. We just have to put them into service, and as the top public procurement authorities, we can go ahead. We can make sure that the best available technology is put into use. Many business actors have been on us for the past few weeks. They have seen the same thing as us, that the environmental requirements of the coastal route offer do not meet the challenges of the future. It is amazing that the Minister of Transport has not followed up the budget agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party since the fall of 2015. It said: ‘The government is asked to introduce a minimum of 30 pst. environmental weights for all public tenders, where applicable.’;» When technology is available to cut off the emissions from the coastal route, it is appropriate to make the most stringent requirements here. Now the Left and Christian People's Party must take responsibility and at least give us one environmental decision today, because the government they support does not. On the contrary, they break the environmental agreement concluded with the batches. On May 25, 1961, U.S. President John F. Kennedy said in a speech to Congress: "I believe that this nation should commit – before the decade is over – to land a human being on the moon and return it safely to Earth." In Trøndelag, our county politicians aim to send people free of emissions over the fjord by speedboat, from Trondheim to Vanvikan, in a few years. And not only that: they aim to get them back safely, too, and everyone who's been in Vanvikan knows that it's not just-just. Today, we can set goals and set environmental requirements for the most famous coastal journey in Norway, in fact one of the most famous maritime voyages in the world. Let's learn from the visions and the demands of the Tree Layer. Let's make sure we can get a coast route sailing from Bergen to Kirkenes and back – emission-free minutes per minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1133	I have to say that I am very surprised that the Workers' Party, SV, the Greens' and Left's Environment Party will put coastal routes, jobs and important coastal social traffic at risk. So I'm particularly surprised that the Workers' Party and the Center Party do not seem to take over the risks and warnings from the Department, which have been assessed by the legal consequences of 30 pst. environmental weighting. When I presented the matter as the rapporteur, I explained that many proposals have been made in the course of the procedure, and the department has not received a legal assessment, by letter to the committee. That's why I said "probably". In contrast to the Workers' Party and the SV, the Right and the Advance Party will not be gambled with the coastal population as efforts, which I really believe this is. In fact, today's government has for the first time made climate demands in the coastal route offer. The requirements have been set, as explained by the Council of State, after rounds of what the industry is able to deliver at the time of the tender. We in the Right are also technology optimists, and we believe that, in the future, even more climate change can be achieved as a result of new and more mature technology. However, congestion and government cannot require coastal route drivers to establish technical solutions in their ships that require electricity in ports that are private or municipal owned. Or do the proposers also believe that we should oblige the coastal drivers to establish this infrastructure in Norwegian ports? Here we're talking about the chicken and the egg, what comes first. For me, it is obvious that shore-side electricity and charging current in ports must come first, before we can impose additional environmental requirements on the coast route. In addition, shore-side electricity in ports will facilitate climate change from all ships operating Norwegian ports along the coast. The Government has announced that it will present a national plan for infrastructure in the transport sector in 2018 and in particular assess the costs and future prospects, the roll-out of land and cargo flows in Norwegian ports. I would also like to point out that the Right and Advance Party have a comment in which we ask the government to assess different aspects by setting emission-free propulsion requirements for foreign ships in selected Norwegian waters, for example. in World Heritage, World Heritage, Svalbard, etc. The same applies to the assessment of the prohibition of discharges of water from the same areas. In my view, this is the right approach to achieving real emissions reductions and environmental measures. This will not make experimental proposals from the Workers' Party and SV, which will only be gambling with the coastal route offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1146	Along with almost every other country in the world, we've set some very ambitious targets for where we're going to be in both 2030 and 2050. The next time we meet in this room, the calendar shows 2018, and then there are 12 years left until 2030. The choices we're going to make, we can't start taking in 2029, we have to start taking them now. It is precisely in such cases that we are being challenged, because it is now that we have to get the good interaction between the operator, industry, not least shipbuilding and infrastructure development, and the public sector. That is why we believe that the government has been far too ambitious in this matter. When the government parties boast that some environmental requirements have been imposed, I would say that something else would be very strange in 2017. Comparing with the demands made ten or a dozen years ago is quite irrelevant in my view. It is an absolute expectation that environmental requirements will be imposed. Here you set too little strict requirements, and you don't set the requirements of the Stortinget that the government has actually ordered, which is 30 pst. environmental weighting, where applicable. I have not received a reasonable answer to the many questions that have been asked about why it should not be relevant in this case. The point is to set high targets. But it is important to stress, as the representative Myrli said when he presented our proposals, that we have also realized that we have come into a dilemma. The offer has gone too low. We want to send a strong signal to the Minister of Transport and the government that this could have been done differently, but we do not want to unduly put operators in too much trouble through a postponement. That's why the Labour Party's proposal is formulated as it is, but there are so many in this room who have made it very clear that there should be much clearer action here. I want to say that one of the most important things for me, in addition to meeting the emission requirements we have set, is that we should promote technologies and jobs for the future that both meet these objectives and make Norway competitive internationally. What could have been better than just using the coastal route – the world’s most beautiful voyage at sea, important for people living along the coast, but also an exhibition window for the world – to demonstrate that this technology already exists, show it to a world that will soon come after, and want the same technology?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1163	I would like to draw attention to a few proposals that have not yet been put forward in the debate. Social dumping is a major problem across the country, and it is very important that we do not allow pay and working conditions to be what makes foreign workers out of competition with Norwegian workers. That many non-resident workers are as competent or better than the Nordics, we can and should live with, but not that their working conditions determine. It is therefore important that the crew of the ships in this tender are given Norwegian pay and working conditions. We must ensure that at least the pearl of Norwegian ferry operations is operated with open working conditions. It is important for credibility that the coast route can also continue to be a serious supplier of experiences, with satisfied crews, whether local travelers, commuters or tourists from across the globe coming into contact with them. All employees are ambassadors of the coastal route, as all employees are ambassadors of all other enterprises. Pleasure workers are good sellers of experiences, and this is a win-win thing. At the same time, I urge you to vote in favour of the proposal on apprentices. It will ensure that the new companies involved in the tender take on social responsibility as much as the Hurtigruten has done for all years, by including as many apprentices as possible. In a good working party spirit, I recommend that everyone in the Chamber today vote in favour of SV's proposal No. 13 and proposal No. 14, with regard to apprentices, so that we get proper working conditions and good competence in this offer as well. I hereby signal that the Workers' Party will support SV's proposal No. 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1174	There has been a special debate. So we are discussing the coastal route offer and a concrete tendering process. It might seem like the Storting really is having a vision debate about how much we can cut, and who can cut the most. This is actually about the offer to the population along the whole coast, the whole of District Norway. We're talking about an industry, we're talking about ships. But here we're talking about adopting technology that doesn't exist. I strongly advise against the Stortinget. When this government is criticized for not having done enough, and not taking the environment and climate seriously, it might be worth remembering that the support for Transnova and Enova has doubled under this government. I think it's probably meant from many speakers and more parties when you have a lot of goals about how much you're going to cut emissions – it sounds like there's not going to be any cuts, but it's at least 25 pst. That doesn't mean it's not allowed to cut any more – it can be good for her. But in many proposals that come here today, the rules of the game change so much that we risk re-starting. And who then takes responsibility – the same majority that might arise – for the fact that there are no offers? I'm also asking the Center Party to think a little bit about it. Now at the entrance to Christmas it is possible to draw the suggestion. Because when you add a bonus scheme, how much is it weighted? So it changes the rules of the game so dramatically in the middle of the process, which means that it might have to be restarted. It will be a bad gift from this Stortinget to send to the Norwegian people and the entire coast of Norway. I would ask once again: look at proposal No. 15 and 16, from the Right and Advance Party. Then you can safely get to the port and safely have a coastal route offer throughout Norway, along the coast. That would be very appropriate by Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1185	We have experienced strong criticism from the government's representatives about proposals that are being promoted without prior comitology and where there are no comments on the proposals. It has even been produced in such a way that the Council of State it concerned could not decide or work on the matter without first sending letters to the various political parties behind such proposals which are promoted without comitology. State Councillor Solvik-Olsen's colleague Sylvi Listhaug saw the need to send 26 questions to various parties represented here on the Stortinget, about such a case. So even with this harsh criticism from the government towards Stortinget about such irresponsible proceedings, we are there again. Today, December 20th, at 4 p.m. 08.24 – six minutes before the deadline for submitting such proposals – the parties Right and the Advance Party will run into the Stortinget with two proposals that will now be voted on today, a few hours after they have been delivered. I just wonder: is this council able to solve the content of these proposals, which is quite extensive, without his Christmas holiday being ruined by the fact that he has to sit and write questions to various parties on the Stortinge in order to know more about the background and what they really meant? For there must be some sort of principle in this, among the Councils of State and in the Government, for the criticism of the lack of comments and the committee reading? It doesn't apply to just some games, does it have to apply to everyone? I look forward to following up on how the Council of State will solve this and on the questions he will have to send about this by letter to the Right and the Advance Party – at first – if necessary. The advantage is that he has some time on him, because now the Storting does not come together until 9 January. So as I wish the Council of State good luck with the work and the clarifications about this, I will also take care to want a really good Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1196	I have participated in postponing ferry offers in the county municipality. It's expensive, it's unfortunate, and it's emergency solutions. Although Nordland has more demanding ferry routes than many other counties, there is a difference between a ferry offer and a large coastal route offer. I would like to clarify that the proposal of the Centre Party is not a new condition in this tendering process – the tender is as planned. After the offeror has been selected, our proposal is more like a carrot that the tenderer can reach for if the company wants to. This is a bonus scheme which is additional to the requirement contained in the tender. There is also no absolute requirement in our proposal, but it is a desire and an opening to achieve something more on the environment. Anyone who has spoken in this debate wants to take environmental considerations into account, so I believe that our proposal is a good solution. Then there's someone here who forgot a script that they might not have finished, and that I might be able to continue. It says: not experimental and populist proposals from the Workers' Party and SV that will only be gambling with the coastal route offer, where it is the coastal population that will receive the bill. That's exactly what we want to avoid, because people and businesses along the coast are very important to us. Our proposal is not a new condition in the tender. It's an addition that I hope everyone can join.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1205	The President encourages the representatives to bring the papers down from the pulpit, so that they are not quoted by other representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1210	I'm just going to deal with my own papers. After hearing the Minister for Transport's previous contributions, I am actually somewhat uncertain whether he has read the committee position in the case, because when the Minister for Transport spoke about the Labour Party's proposal, I think he was dealing with the original proposals, promoted in the representative proposal on 23 November. But we have therefore changed one of the two proposals we made then, after the letter we received from the Minister of Transport to the Stortinget on 7 December, which, in our opinion, contained a substantial indication that new ecological criteria would result in a postponement of the tender. I say it again, and I ask both the representative Pollestad, the case rapporteur, Finstad, and the Minister for Transport to hear again: the Labour Party does not want to delay the tender. To the case rapporteur, Finstad: The Labour Party does not want to gamble with the coastal route offer. Now I've said it again. From our point of view, we are impatient. We want stronger environmental efforts, but we do not want to delay the tender. Then it also becomes strange when the Minister for Transport said in his previous post that the Workers' Party and the SV's proposals would mean that the tender had to be postponed. I am willing to be able to support it with regard to the SV and the proposals of the Left, but not the proposals that the Workers' Party is promoting with the SV or promoting alone, the proposals No. 1 to 4. I would like to ask the Minister for Transport which, if any of them were to be adopted, of the four proposals on which the Workers' Party is involved, would result in a postponement of the tender. Proposal No. 1 concerns climate bonus within existing tenders. Proposal No. 2 is about 30 pst. environmental weighting in the case of subsequent tenders. Proposal No. 3 is land flow at the main coastal ports. Proposal No. 4 has the wording «as far as possible within the tender submitted». So again, which of the Workers' Party's proposals would require the tender to be postponed and re-opened? Then I will make an explanation of vote by the Labour Party. As can be seen from the vote, the Workers' Party will vote against the No. 5, 6, 7 and 8, which is included in the setting. We shall now proceed to vote in favour of the proposal No. 9 and 10, from the Christian People's Party. We are going to vote in favour of proposal No. 11th from the Center Party. We are going to vote against proposal No. 12, from SV, but for the proposals No. 13 and 14, from SV. We are going to vote against proposals No. 15 and 16, from the Right and Advance Party. Finally, I have to correct a typographical error in proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and SV. It says 1 December 2021. Of course, it should be 1 January 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1228	Then it's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1234	It's serious if we're going to live with a coastal route that, ten years after 2021, is far behind that nation's actual ability to deliver in terms of green shipping. It is serious if we do not use the opportunities offered by the Norwegian industry, our competence on ships and zero-emission solutions. I hear that the technology specialists in the Progress Party and the Right will not use the technology as industry demand that we use. In Süd-Trøndelag there was a requirement for halving the emissions on two ferry offers. State politicians were warned that this was going to be very expensive. The experience was that costs increased but not significantly more than expected in the light of developments in such contracts. In Trøndelag, it was found that by setting environmental requirements for procurement, the environment of competence and business has responded with new solutions. The business community in Trøndelag is serving the new requirements. In addition, Tøndelag’s politicians have introduced a bonus scheme whereby the company being offered receives a bonus if they cut emissions more than agreed. This stimulates further environmental efforts. Such a system can also be adopted for coastal routes today. There is no way in which the horrors of the SV's proposal from this interlocutors would have resulted in a postponement of the tendering period of one or two months. The consequences of this could have been solved by extending the current agreement with Hurtigruten accordingly. It wouldn't have meant that we stopped in the fast lane as we know it. This is done before and will be done again by several ferry offers along the coast. Our possibilities for a zero-emission green shipping are there. It's up to us whether we want to put them into use or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1243	I think it is a pity that we have to have this debate on the offer of a new coastal route, because it is as the Council of State points out: it is doing a lot for green shipping in Norway now. There is a lot to do with support in Enova, and you have both the job that the government has done, and the follow-up to the consensus we have reached on the civil side of the budget. 30 pst. environmental weighting, which we are to have in tender, has not come out of a random case in Stortinget. It has come out of a budgetary agreement between the four parties on the civil side – a budgetary agreement that we had in 2015. It is then to be expected, and it has been expected, that this will be the case when tenders are published by the government. It is just as the Council of State points out: land flow is positive, and when there is a demand for land flow where the fast route will go in the future, it is also part of a budgetary unity that we have had in the past. 30 pst. environmental weighting: that's not what the State Council says, that there's a risk of having 30 pst. environmental weight, that there is a risk of getting a situation where there is only a price to pay attention to. There is no contradiction between having minimum requirements and minimum environmental requirements and having 30 pst in addition. environmental weighting. It's just that the two have to play together, which is the whole point – that we have to have minimum requirements. They must gradually become more stringent, but at the same time the aim of tenders is to have a dynamic in the tenders as technology develops, so as to have a situation in which companies can expand on the environmental side and thus have expectations of a better opportunity to win tenders. That's exactly why you need that environmental weight. I have to say to the discussions about ESA that I know at least no issues where ESA has stopped well-founded environmental measures. It's just this as well. It is about having well-founded environmental measures. I think it is a pity that we now do not have both minimum requirements and 30 pst. environmental weight, and I would also like to say that, like Lars Haltbrecken, we in the Left do not have the same concern that you cannot handle a tendering process even though you now also have a change in terms of strengthening environmental requirements. We are the ones calling for the tender; it is fully possible to make a good transition between what is today's and the future... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1254	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1259	First of all to the representative Elvestuen: Yes, I fully agree, it is established that ESA does not have any specific fundamental objections to environmental requirements. Again, it is not the SV or the Left or those who want more stringent environmental requirements in the tender that have endangered the coastal route, as it is said. It is the Council of State, the political leadership and the ministry that have put us in this difficult situation. We must be able to establish that. We had not had a meeting here today if there had been proper environmental requirements that we could have had for everyone as one – after previous decisions in Stortinget. Nor do we share in SV the concern that someone has expressed about postponement. The representative Mr Haltbrecken and the representative Mr Elvesuen made that point. So we've had two, three, four comparable tenders that have been drawn in recent times, two of them following new environmental requirements that came. That was the case with the ferries on the E39, and it's quite comparable. We're talking about maybe two to three months. Stop breaks said so. Yes, let's say one to three. A postponement: the papers are clear. Many of the moments are there. There are some changes on some points, and then the bid is out again. It is clear that the coast route should go whether it is called the fast route that month, or two, three months, then gets to be. But it has to go – of course it has to go. Since it is not later that the Progress Party is particularly sensitive to environmental requirements or is concerned with environmental issues in general, it must be that the Right Party and the Advance Party are responsive to the names of companies and eager actors who want more stringent environmental requirements in the maritime industry. The new bar cluster in Trondheim contains many strong names, and they want to sit in the front seat. They want to be involved in development. We are talking here about, among other things, Statkraft, Brunvoll, Wärtsilä, Norwegian Electric Systems, Bergen Hafen, Klimastiftelsen and Gasnor. Seventy-five companies in Maritime CleanTech will be in the lead. Several of them are public, and many are private. They want us to make it easier for business to seize this opportunity for this floating lighthouse – the floating exhibition window – to be. I'm sorry that the majority in the hall doesn't seem to be really tightening up the requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1270	First of all, it's possible I know the one who left these notes, so it's possible I'll take them back again, so there won't be so many good quotes in the future. What I was thinking about is, once again, it's such that when we launch a tender that is so extensive, as large as this, it has to be based on a kind of technology and a company that is willing to take the risk of operating these ships over the next ten years. That's what's really the big thing. We can always have a discretionary assessment of how stringent environmental requirements can be imposed on the one hand, but it must also be weighed against regularity, predictability, the supply of coastal populations, the supply that is so important to Norway. Then I think it is risky – no matter what others would think about it – at the bottom of a tendering process to start introducing new demands. I record that the Workers' Party has to the extent that it has reverted to its requirement for environmental weighting, and this indicates largely to subsequent tenders, insofar as it does not affect today's tender. That is a positive approach. But the representative Myrli also asks if there are any of these proposals that may have an impact on the tender, and that is the case. Proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party reads: ‘The Government requests the introduction of a climate bonus in the tender according to the model of the holiday offer in the South Trøndelag in 2016.’ It is a direct order against the existing tender. If it is a significant climate bonus, it will also have an impact on the tender, and it may have to be cancelled and we have to start the process again. From this point of view, this is a proposal from the Labour Party – which we will not vote for – which will affect the tendering process. Similarly, in any case, it is my opinion that the proposal made on behalf of the Centre Party is also in a grey zone as to whether or not it will affect the tendering process. Therefore, I think it would be irresponsible both to promote and adopt such a proposal today, when the consequences of this are not known for the present tendering regime and the current tendering process. From our point of view, we do not want to take any risk in changing the framework conditions of this offer at this time, simply because this offer is too important for the coastal population, for Norway. We now want to implement this tender. There are also other ways we can make future demands related to Norwegian shipping. We can certainly come back with a lot of exciting discussions about this later, but now it is important to get this tender done in a good way. I therefore recommend – and hope and believe – that we do not now have new proposals adopted in this Chamber that affect the tendering process. President, shall I take the notes down?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1290	It is very nice if the representative helps clear before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1295	I would again like to warn strongly against making decisions that could jeopardize the entire coastal route offer. The representative Myrli wondered what proposal the Labour Party has that could do just that. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party now at least sees the risk as a claimant, a risk that was completely absent in the social debate throughout November, when the Workers' Party was out there and was much crazier than they have been now. But I refer to proposal No. 1 – from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left – where one proposes to place a climate bonus in the new tender. I just remind you that if there's going to be a bonus that gives incentives to change behavior, it has to be a significant bonus. And making a significant change in the tender, one has to start again. That is why the proposal is no. One danger to the whole offer, and therefore I keep my words well. I hope that the representative Myrli will follow up his own words from the pulpit and reconsider the proposal that they have supported. To give the impression that we don't care about emissions: it's okay that the representative of the Socialist Left Party is concerned about cultivating prejudices, but if we stick to the fact, there's no hold in the claims that one doesn't care about emissions. But for us, it's much more important to make sure that we lead an industry in the right direction, than that one hangs up in a given proportion of ships, which creates an enormous uncertainty, and which makes the offer perhaps disappear. I do not think the population along the coast – the very least population in North Norway. When we took over, it was called Transnova, which was to support environmentally friendly transport. Just a few years ago, they had a budget of 81 million. kr. This year, after we put the two together, Enova uses about 1 billion. on environmental measures in the transport sector. So it's more than just a tidal problem. To get rid of SV when you see what they delivered and we have doubled the bet – and have many further measures through the Ministry of Food and Fisheries – I do not lose my night sleep. There is no reason to want to go back to the use or levels of the last government, on the contrary. I hope that the representative Barth Eide, on the other hand, accepts that what the Workers' Party has called for, they have not shown the consequences or costs of. And even if you can use a few more months, tell me about the shipping company that today would say what the price would be on the solution that the Workers' Party demands! I hope the Workers' Party will contact the Shipowner's Association and ask what their assessment of this is. Then you'll see that the policy of the government here, and I've realized that the Central Party has an understanding of having managed the department, is what makes sense, both in terms of the long-term perspective of environmental solutions, and not least in terms of ensuring a good supply along the coast. That's the main goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1308	I, the undersigned, have been born and raised in Lofoten and know how central and important the fast route and coastal route are for the local population. I therefore consider myself also a spokesperson for the coastal population, and I think that we in the Right and the Advance Party are not involved in any proposal that puts that offer at risk. I think in many ways it has been a very interesting debate today. We have seen that many speakers have highlighted the climate and environmental ambitions of their parties, that we have a golden opportunity to be ahead of technological solutions and development, and that the Norwegian maritime industry will be an exhibition window in the future. We're dividing this ambition into the right. At the same time, I would like to point out that we cannot skip the realities of the matter, among other things. the technology shall be known and proven at the time of the tender for which the companies are to submit tenders. We have a story of ESA allegations of illegal state aid. In this way, the offer of the coast route is not a regular ferry offer, but much, much more. We have the infrastructure in the ports, with power in place in the future. We are at risk of loss of calls along the coast if the proposals from some here were to be adopted. We have no guarantee that environmental weight in the tender will result in greater climate reductions than the minimum requirements already laid down in the tender, and we have Arctic waters in which a coastal route is to operate. It's about safety, and it's not a ferry stretch that goes right over, a stretch where you can charge at both ends. So I would point out that ship-side emissions are a challenge, but instead of just focusing on the coastal route, which has a very small share of coastal emissions, I think it is much better to think overall and run up infrastructure along the coast that all ships along the coast can use. It's more profitable to spend money there and achieve even greater climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1319	First, to the representative, Finstad, that we could have distributed the requirements among others than the coast route. But it is, after all, that today the state is subsidising the coast route by 682 million. kr. That's what we can demand from the expectations we have in the future when they operate on that coastline. Many others who sail here have no subsidisation. As far as the matter goes further during this case, the left looks forward to 3 January. In fact, we hope that the companies offering this offer have spoken well with the suppliers of new technological infrastructure and equipment on board, so that it is actually possible to achieve more than what is actually required in the tender. I hope that the Minister of Transport and the Ministry of Transport will also go further than is required. With regard to voting today, I said in my main post that we are going to support the proposals No. 15 and 16 from the Right and Advance Party. We still do, but I see there's no very big difference between the proposals. 9 and 10 and proposals Nos. 15 and 16. We want to cooperate with both the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party, so we also support the proposals No. 9 and 10, presented by the Christian People's Party, which deals with a little bit more specific coastal route, while the other two are more general. It will be the vote of the Left in this matter. Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1330	The representative Sverre Myrli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1335	The Labour Party supported its proposal for a representative on 23 November. As part of its examination of the proposal, on 7 December the Committee received a letter from the Ministry of Transport providing essential information. On 15 December the Committee gave its opinion on the matter. The Labour Party had then changed the wording of its proposal from the representative proposal. The Minister of Transport would have plenty of time to consider what the Workers' Party's proposal is. So we feel that the Minister of Transport is running with the Stortinget and criticises the Stortinge's consideration of the proposals and the proposals of the various parties. It is the Solberg parliamentarianism that government members can hold on and raddle candy with the Stortinget. At one time, members of the government were reading committee settings and dealing with them. I realize that it's not necessarily like this anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1343	The representative Arne Nävra has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1348	I took the floor because the council stimulated me to do so. He says that significant changes mean that we must have re-offered, he refers to the bonus scheme, and he attacks the Workers' Party's proposal. In my opinion, there is actually a certain room for action within the tender that has been sent – also with regard to bonus schemes. When it comes to government acquisition regulations, we're talking about changes of about 10 pst. to contract values for goods and services. I'm going to think that the department can manage to find a law firm in those regulations of a change that can actually justify a bonus of up to maybe 10 pst. And that's about 60 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1357	It is also in this case the responsibility of the Council of State that I take the floor again and therefore extend the debate. I'll be brief in return. On the challenge that we should have contact with shipping companies, business organisations and industry about this, I can reassure the Council of State that it was very easy, because many of them contacted us and asked just the question that we are asking here: Why is it that we do not apply existing or imminent technologies that are in use in Norway and that are being developed in Norway? Why are we less ambitious with regard to the coast than with regard to measures already under way? That call has been accepted – we have that contact, and we will continue to have that contact as we continue to work on these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1364	Let me first just make it clear that I am not running over the Storting and handling the matter, but I point out that it is part of the proposals that some parties have made, which will not be wise to adopt, simply because it endangers the coast route. I believe that on the day one sees that one does not have tenderers because the requirements are too high a risk for the shipping companies to submit tenders, or that one gets a State aid case in ESA, then will be able to accept that responsibility and try to push it on a government council instead. Let me therefore be clear in my warning about the consequences of that. It's good if the Workers' Party has had contact. But let me say that we have had a lot of contact both with the supplier industry and with shipping companies. We know a lot of suppliers who want to deliver a lot of exciting to the industry, but we do not know any shipping companies that today will be able to count on what it means in terms of costs, and therefore submit tenders for this. So we're talking about a tender where the deadline expires within a few weeks. I still have the advantage of seeing a single shipping company go out in the media and say that it is good, what the Workers' Party and SV have proposed. On the other hand, I have registered that both the NHO Maritime Forum and the Shipowners' Association say that there is too much risk here that it makes sense to do so. The tool for the state is large and wide, it will move us in the green direction and make Norway an environmental lighthouse. There's no one in this room disagree. The question is whether to reduce Enova’s instrument to 11 ships, or whether to continue to ensure that our entire fleet can be looked at and action taken where the risk is lower and you get more money back. I believe that with the approach taken by the government, setting minimum requirements that apply to everyone, better environmental benefits are achieved. One also gives Enova a greater scope for action not already in 2018 to commit money, but to be able to do so in 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, etc., when the technology is more mature and you can count on the costs in a completely different way. So I just remind those who have said that ESA has never been against good, well-founded environmental requirements, that that is not what the debate is about. What ESA has been engaged in is to avoid unlawful State aid or to avoid effective competition for a contract. That is what we point out, that making the changes now or having too stringent environmental requirements initially is likely to lead to the notion of illegal State aid or to lack of competition. Therefore, the balance the government has found is a good balance in moving Norway in a positive direction by ensuring that we gradually reduce emissions, that we are an environmental lighthouse in the world, but at the same time are able to deliver the travel offer that the coast route is going to make. I think that should actually be essential for everyone here, especially for North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1375	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 3 and 4 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1404	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group, 10 minutes to the Presidentship of the Stortinge and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to the comments of members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1413	The debate on the ageing of the population is to a lesser extent a party political debate on the Norwegian economy, but gives us a useful insight into the results of the budget we adopted last autumn on how the economy has evolved in the past year. The recent ageing shows a significant decrease in oil money consumption of 8.3 billion. kr, increased tax revenue of 3 billion. DKK and 29 billion kr in increased revenues from the petroleum activity, compared to the 2017 national budget. Transfers to State pension funds abroad increased by 56.6 billion kr compared to the figures for last year's harvest. This shows that the Norwegian economy is on the way to better times and that politics is working. After years of oil price decline and migration crisis, unemployment is on the way down and growth is on the way up. More jobs are created, and more people come to work. The last Money Policy report from Norway’s Bank shows that growth in the Norwegian economy has taken place and that capacity utilisation in the economy has increased. In the national budget, presented earlier in the autumn, the growth rate in 2017 is estimated to be in line with the trend growth rate and higher than the trend growth rate in 2018. For the current year, this is a significant adjustment from the estimates when the budget was adopted last year, and the rise in the Norwegian economy seems to be faster than we had expected. This is due to low interest rates, improved competitiveness and targeted fiscal policies in recent years, which have helped to facilitate more people in work, activity and conversion in the Norwegian economy. The 2018 budget will facilitate growth and value creation, new jobs, more in jobs and a sustainable and safe welfare society that promises those who need our common help. The results of our treatment today show that the arrows are pointing in the right direction, and that there is good economic development across the country. Financial policy will be normalised in 2018 – after several years with the necessary expansionary policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1424	The Central Party will strengthen the security of Norwegian citizens. We want to fight crime that affects people and businesses in Norway. Then we need to strengthen the local police, as we do in our alternative budget, with half a billion more to the local police. Then we need to ensure increased cooperation and resources for the Labour Inspectorate, the Nav Control, the Tax Agency, the police, the UDI and the Petroleum Control Agency. Then we have to ensure effective border control, where we have national freedom of action to implement the measures we think are necessary, and we have to ensure that we give more money to the customs and police. After hearing the promises of the Progress Party in the election campaign, one might think it was a certain willingness to prioritize reinforced border control. ‘We are going to choose to introduce permanent border controls in Norway and will do what we can to achieve it’, was Siv Jensen’s message in VG on 23 June this year. I have asked the European Commission what concrete plans and initiatives the government has to put in place permanent border controls in Norway. The answer is zero, absolutely nothing. It's not on the government's agenda at all. In this area, too, the electoral promises of the Advance Party have already been cancelled before we write in 2018. It is very important to regain national freedom of action and to put in place the border controls that we consider necessary in the light of our national interests and needs. Border control is absolutely central to knowing who is in Norwegian soil, border control is absolutely central to stopping criminals at the border, and border control is central to reducing smuggling. Several of the Central Party's budgetary questions have attracted some attention in the Stortinget this year. I can immediately clarify that there is no money in the air for a single customs falcon in our alternative budget. On the other hand, there is considerable funding for more customs officials on the ground. It is great that the finance minister and her administration show creativity in describing what it takes to stop all smuggling into Norway, which is worrying, is that one does not have any estimate of the size of smuggling, nor does one have any strategy for reducing smuggling. The situation is precarious, and it's alarming. The smuggling is about to complete. The beer intake has doubled to 16 years, and the industry reports that this is only the top of the iceberg: 90–95 pst. of the smuggler beer comes unhindered into Norway — several dozen million cans of beer every year. At the same time, the Norwegian Toller Association reports on a budgetary situation in which they will no longer be able to carry out their social tasks properly if they do not receive more money. The government boasts of a strengthened customs union. 120 new employees would come in 2016. The fasitator is that the customs tariff is actually in zero, and that several customs regions experience large cuts. Toll region Oslo and Akershus, for example, had a cut of 23 employees in the period 1 February last year to 25 June this year. In the same period, the Customs Region of South Norway had a cut of 18 employees. With the budget we are going to deal with here today, the situation is going to be even worse. Customs regions are ordered to cut drastically in their budgets – 6 pst. cut in regions and departments is the message from the customs director. The consequences — with what has already been achieved by cut — are, as the Customs and Customs Union describes it, that: lack of sufficient staff to work in addition to normal working hours; multiple border crossing points are unattended for longer periods than before the night shift control activity on Svinesund has been reduced by 20 pst. one does not have the capacity to handle multiple simultaneous events It is cut in the dog service: on the Gardermo there are five drug dogs, but only two of them are on guard at the same time. Before working, the dogs worked every day of the week. Now they're only going to work in the daytime, Monday to Friday. the lease for the customs construction of Gardermoen shall be terminated because of the budgetary situation; In this area, too, a centralisation from the government is seen. The Customs Directorate is growing, while the operational power of customs regions is still declining. The situation requires action; quick grip is required. The centre party prioritizes the strengthening of the border control by 200 million. kr in its alternative budget, as the first step towards the necessary escalation of the number of employees and the number of checks. We give priority to the security of people in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1466	In the last article of the year, let me address two crucial issues for green fiscal policy in the future. There is a strengthening of efforts to combat economic crime and that SPU, the state pension fund abroad, can enter into unlisted infrastructure. Of course, it is difficult to estimate how much is avoided each year. It is not surprising that keeping statistics on illegal sizes suffers from inadequate reporting. Nevertheless, studies have found that about 150 billion. kr is deducted per year. This is due to two types of problems: illegal activity, particularly undeclared work and illegal tax evasion, and aggressive tax planning, which is also a problem that needs to be addressed in the future. The legal part of this, the aggressive tax planning, must continue to work both nationally and internationally. We have therefore submitted a proposal for a representative on Internet tax, a so-called Google tax, to address some of this problem. It will be dealt with in the spring, and we hope to get a majority in the UK to ask the government to investigate how best to secure the tax revenues of multinational companies with a digital earnings platform in Norway. At the same time, there are major problems related to illegal activities. The estimates are still uncertain, but some studies suggest that they represent about 5 pst. GDP. Other studies suggest that as much as 14 pst. GDP is considered to be lost due to illegal activity. Anyway, this is a large number: up to 420 billion. kr in lost tax revenue due to illegal activity. The Financial Supervisory Authority has complained of a lack of investigation into matters in their area. At the same time, we know that Ecokrim is working against the world's most well-off criminals and therefore needs more resources if they are to have the opportunity to pursue these issues. Ecocrim has long worn too little resources. Two thirds of the cases referred to by the tax administration are rejected, many due to lack of resources. We have been told that if one additional interview has to be done, which means for example: a flight, perhaps the whole matter has to be resolved because there is no resources to pursue it. We can't have it that way. The Green Party therefore proposes a sharp increase of 100 million. SEK to Økokrim and 500 million. kr to the tax haven, hub, customs office, etc. If we had received this money, we would not have had to draw on the oil fund, and instead we could have allowed ourselves to think that we could work less and less in the future. The government has announced in the perspective statement that we will have to work more and more in the future than today, which will not be necessary if we are to obtain lost tax income from illegal activities. So my first key point is: the Greens are proposing a major effort against economic crime. It has many good effects, not least higher tax revenues, which in addition provide a more efficient economy, as individual actors currently have competitive advantages by nurturing the community and shifting costs to others. My second key point is that the oil fund can invest in unlisted infrastructure. Last week Erna Solberg brought both the oil fund and Yngve Slyngstad in the suitcase when she went to Paris. They got the honours and were exposed to the charms of Macron, but did it work? We believe that the oil fund should be one of the driving forces for a greater focus on climate among the world's investors and funds, and then it is important that the fund itself be governed by these principles. It is therefore necessary to open the fund as soon as possible to invest in unlisted infrastructure and to allow it to follow its own advice, namely to withdraw from oil and gas in addition to coal. I have a question for the Minister of Finance: Will the Minister of Finance be more forward-looking on behalf of the oil fund and the climate now that the oil fund will be actively used to design and promote standards for assessing different types of climate risk in investments? Norway’s Bank itself has asked to withdraw from oil and gas, and they have previously recommended that the oil fund should be allowed to invest in renewable infrastructure. This will give them a larger investment universe, with a greater potential for returns. Will the Minister of Finance help the oil fund itself to meet the standards that they are now to develop for other investment funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1494	Today, the Stortinget deals with the 2017 budget for the third time. We are now at the end of the year. After all, ageing is primarily a technical review of the budget and, in this way, not a situation for large, new investments or to change the financial policy regime. The rapporteur and the chairman of the committee went through the figures in depth. So I'm not going to spend time on that. I was actually going to take advantage of the opportunity to wish the Stortinge Christmas, and not least wish all the members of the Finance Committee Christmas and thank you for a very good cooperation. It's been a long autumn, with a lot of demanding things, but we've come into port with it, and I appreciate the cooperation we've had. So, of course, it is tempting now to raise the debate on both customs, border control and the state pension fund abroad, I will not do that. I should like to make two brief comments on this. One is that this government has strengthened border control and customs duties through a wide range of instruments. These include: that we have introduced new resources, new methodologies and new tools and instruments to make the customs tariff more efficient. In the case of the State pension fund abroad, we will have ample opportunity to discuss all the issues surrounding it when the government submits the notification of the fund to the spring. With this I use the opportunity to wish a really good Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1505	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1510	I also want to take the opportunity to wish the Council of State and everyone else here in the hall Christmas! But my post and what went on at the customs office were a visit. I repeated in my main post the situation description provided by the Norwegian Toller Association of the situation in the building. Among other things, they describe that if they do not receive more money, the customs duty will not be able to carry out their social task properly. They also warn against significant cuts. In response to a budgetary question in the autumn, the Minister of Finance of the Central Party said that given that the appropriations are maintained at the current level, it will be necessary to stabilise the annual rate of duty at a slightly lower level than today. What kind of cut is it talking about in the customs office in the future, and what kind of task will be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1517	Let me first say that I'm very pleased that the Center Party also has an involvement in the importance of customs duties for border control and reduction in smuggling. We have an unusually professional customs tariff that does a very good job and reveals quite a number of great attempts to smuggle illegal goods into the country. One of the reasons why they can do that, is, of course, in addition to being good at their job, that they are doing good crafts combined with technology, tools, methods and intelligence, which have been developed and introduced in recent years. These are tools that make the department more of the resources they have. But I also want to say that the customs tariff, like all other state agencies, needs to be more effective. If we do not impose efficiency requirements on state agencies, I believe we have a challenge in the future. So driving professionally and efficiently is also important for the customs tariff.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1522	What's being described by the Tolls Federation is a completely different reality than what the Council of State here describes. So they say that they will not be able to carry out their social mission properly if they do not receive more funding. The Tolls Association is very pleased that they get new technology, new solutions, new camera solutions, for example, but at the same time they depend on operating that technology, that they have employees who can do it. When, on the part of the Council of State, it is described as a decrease in the number of employees, my question is: What will be the impact on the services and mission of the customs tariff?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1527	I can assure you that the customs office will also have many good customs officers working at Norwegian border stations next year. In combination with the new tools they've been given, I'm also going to tap next year into the media about new, big seizures made by this amazing establishment. So it's a very honest thing that the Tolls Association wants more money. The vast majority of instances in this society want more money. But it is the case that we have to impose efficiency requirements on all the floors. It also applies to the customs tariff. They are shown to be fully capable of doing so — producing good results in a situation where they have also received a lot of money from this government. I want to say that the strongest growth in the budgets of the customs debt has come under this government for many years, not in the eight years of the Central Party last put in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1535	What is described is a significant need for more money from the Tolls Federation. We give priority to that in our approach – unfortunately, the government has not wanted to do so. I only have one last question to the Council of State. I quoted the former councillor of the VG on June 23rd this year, where she said the following: ‘We are going to choose to introduce permanent border controls in Norway, and will do what we can to get them done.’ What concrete action does the Council of State intend to take, and what action does it take to follow up that opinion?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1547	To the first representative said, this government has prioritised the customs duty rate, as opposed to what the Central Party did when they had the opportunity for eight years in government. As regards the question of border control, it is quite right that there was an important question for the Progress Party in the election campaign. Then I might remind the representative that we are going to negotiate a possible new government platform on 2 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1554	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1559	I find it natural to link some comments to the Prince's Gate 26 construction project, including a new postal and goods station and a new entrance tunnel. Let me first stress that the presidency has ongoing and close contact with the administration and project management on the development of the project. We focus on cost control, and the project is continued with the same cost framework as in the last year's budgetary procedure. There has been good progress in the construction project throughout the year. The reconstruction of the Prince's Gate 26 will be completed as planned, early in 2018. The internal work is ongoing and will be completed in the autumn of 2018. The size then takes over the construction and shall provide the necessary technical infrastructure, furniture, etc. With P26 postal and goods offices and entry tunnels, we have modern and secure facilities that provide a good framework for parliamentary work for many decades to come. In view of the migration, a separate project is established, with a view to the best possible migration process. The administration has good dialogue with the party groups, which when moved into the Prince's Gate 26 will get significantly better office premises. There are still challenges in the project. This is mainly due to weaknesses in the deliveries from the design team. Although the cost framework for the project remains constant, the project's economy has been further strained in the last period, and most of the reserves that have been set aside need to be used. As a result of the persistent problems with the deliveries from the design team, we have taken the unusual step of suing the company that runs the design team. The appeal was submitted to Oslo District Court on 8 December, with a claim for compensation of up to 125 million. kr. The requirement is significant but represents a relatively limited part of the overall increases in the cost framework that has been in the project. This is because a builder cannot claim the full cost of the necessary change work, even if the designer should expect them to come. This is work that is necessary to complete the project, and therefore the costs would have been incurred in any case. Therefore, the claim for compensation is primarily made up of the additional costs incurred because the works were not initially designed to be satisfactory. The Presidency is concerned that we should take lessons from this project in future construction matters. On the basis of the National Audit Office's report on the project and its treatment by the Storting, a working group set up by the Presidency will shortly be issuing a report with recommendations on how to deal with future construction issues. The working group will propose a clearer formalisation of roles and responsibilities between the different bodies of the Storting, with particular attention to construction matters. Furthermore, the working group will propose how legislation to ensure the proper and effective implementation of construction projects in the country is fully applicable also to the Stortinge. In addition, the working group will propose a solution in which State Building can assist the Stortinget in major construction projects. The Presidency will present a case to the Stortinget in connection with the follow-up to the report and its proposals, such as: involve possible changes to Storting’s Rules of Procedure. We want to facilitate good discussions with the party groups on the proposals, especially with regard to the formalisation and anchoring of major and costly decisions. The report will also be sent to the departments concerned at the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1582	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1600	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1609	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Gina Barstad on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red proposal No 5, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to contribute 100 pst. State financing of the collective projects of the Bypakket Bergen.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1639	There is a vote on proposal No. 5. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to contribute 80 pst. State financing of the collective projects of the Bypakket Bergen.’;» Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1656	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a re-priority of the funds in the urban package so that the funds allocated to urban environment tunnels are used for other collective projects in the urban package.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1673	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to contribute 70 pst. State financing of the collective projects of the Bypakket Bergen.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1702	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1718	A total of 16 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 5-7, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Left proposal No 8, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 9 and 10, by Hans Fredrik Gruvan on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No 11, from Siv Mossleth on behalf of the Center Party the proposals No 12-14, from Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 15 and 16, from Helge Orten on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party In proposal No 3 is a typographical error, it shall be read ‘1. January 2021»; First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the implementation of a development contract as a separate process independent of the announced offer of the Kystrute, with the aim of obtaining at least one boat on the Bergen–Kirkenes coast route with full emission-free operation during the first half of the contract period.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1764	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for 30 per cent environmental weight or a bonus scheme in the offer for the Kystrutten Bergen-Kirkenes following a model from the ferry offer in the South Tribute Team in 2016. If this involves delays in initiating the new tender, the Government shall publish a new short-term tender from 1.1.2021, as was done for the Moss-Horten, Hallhjem-Sandvik and Mortavika-Årswagen sections.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1781	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13 and 14 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to find a procedure to ensure that the supplier of the offer for the Bergen–Churches Coastal Route undertakes to ensure that all employees working on the boats in connection with the offer of the Kystute offer receive pay and working conditions which are no less favourable than those resulting from the national collective bargaining agreement in force.’ Proposal 14 reads: ‘The Government is asked to find a procedure to ensure that the supplier of the offer for the Bergen–Kirken Coast Route uses apprentices to the same extent or to a greater extent than is the case today’.» The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1805	The proposals are then put to the vote. 5-7, from the Socialist Left Party and the Left. Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The Government is asked to ensure that the tender for the coastal route is modified in order to achieve better environmental solutions for the acquisition than the minimum requirements laid down in the tender. This can be done by adding a climate bonus to the tender according to the model of the ferry offer in the South Trøndelag in 2016, with an equivalent bonus level per tonne of CO 2, and implementing it within the scope of the change according to the regulation on public acquisitions. [[§ 28-1]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks that it be at least 30 pst. environmental weighting in the Bergen-Kirkenes coastal route tender, in line with the previous Stortinget environmental weighting decision in all public tenders.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for stricter emission reduction requirements during the contract period of the Bergen–Churches Coastal Route by setting the minimum average reduction requirement for the whole period to 50 pst, or specifying a minimum emission cut requirement of 50 pst. after three years of the period for at least one of the tender packages.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1837	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 10, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the CO 2 fund’s instrument is wide enough to include the Kystrut.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Enova has relevant and match-proof instruments designed against the Coast so that ships are more sensitive to emissions reduction and a faster transition in a more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly direction.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left, the Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal. Red has announced subsidized support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1865	There is a vote on proposal No. 11th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to negotiate an environmental bonus agreement for which shipping companies may be compensated for each tonne of CO 2 which is reduced in addition to the requirements of the offer during the contract period after the conclusion of a contract with the operator of Kystruta.’; [[none]] The Labour Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal. The Socialist Left and Red have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1885	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «As far as possible within the tender submitted, the Government is asked to weigh the environment by 30 pst. in line with the previous decision of the Storting.» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal. The Left, the Greens and the Reds have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1902	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of a climate bonus in the tender according to the model of the holiday offer in the South Trøndelag in 2016.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size requires the government to assume that the environmental weight shall be at least 30 pst. in the case of subsequent tenders.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The size request of the government as soon as possible, and at the latest during the spring session 2018, to submit an action plan to ensure that land flow with sufficient capacity to charge large batteries in the main ports of the coastal area is established, before the start of a new contract period on 1 January 2021.’» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The left has announced subsidiary support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1931	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15 and 16, from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that Enova has relevant and accurate instruments designed for more energy and climate-friendly shipping, including ships engaged in coastal shipping, so that energy and climate-efficient solutions in shipping can be used more quickly and to a greater extent than they would otherwise have been.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The budget asks the Government of the negotiating mandate of the CO 2 fund to assess how the Fund can contribute to further emission reductions in domestic shipping, where Kystruta is also included.’; The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e1967	Behind it are the Right, Advance and Center parts. The Christian People's Party has announced support for the vote. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e5105	A, B I, C, D a, b I is the first to be voted on. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e5119	It shall be counted against B II to IX and D II to IX.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-20.ana.ud482e8132	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. As this is the last big meeting in 2017, the President will take the opportunity to thank everyone for the efforts made this autumn. The President would like to see all the representatives, the members of the government, all the employees, the press and all those who have had their work related to the Stortinget, a happy Christmas and a peaceful new year. The President will remind you that the first meeting of the New Year will be Tuesday 9 January. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - Merry Christmas, the meeting is cancelled.
