ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e25	Representatives Sverre Myrli, Rigmor Aasrud, Michael Tetzschner, Liv Signe Navarsete and Geir Jørgen Bekkewold, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The former temporary deputy representative of the Hedmark County, Tone Merete Sønsterud, has again taken up his seat. They called the alternates, for Buskerud County Anne Helene Sandum, and for Eastfold County Monica Carmen Gåsvatn, have taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Advance Party Group to the representative Tor André Johnsen on Tuesday 10 October and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative Johan Aas is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e75	Johan Aas is present and will take the seat. The President shall state that the election of members and alternates to the Electoral Committee, which was held at the Constituent Meeting of the Grand Duchy on Saturday 7 October, resulted in the election of all proposed members and alternates by 169 votes. The President will subsequently convene the Electoral Committee for its first meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e84	State Councillor Ine M. Eriksen Soreide exceeded 12 kgl. propositions: on the financing of e.g. 33 on the routes Skardtjernet-Tonsvatnet and Bjørgokreuzet – Lower Ødgarden in Oppland (Prop. 171 S [[2016-2017]] on a temporary change in the law on gambling [[2016-2017]] on consent to the acceptance of Directive [[2016-2017]] on changes in child law and the penal code, etc. [[2016-2017]] on amendments to the Law on Social Security [[2016-2017]] on amendments to the Law on the Protection of Children, etc. [[2016-2017]] on the law of arms, firearms, parts of weapons and ammunition [[2016-2017]] on amendments to the Kindergarten Act [[2016-2017]] consenting to the entry into force of agreements between Norway and some other countries amending the date of entry into force of the OECD/Council of Europe Agreement on mutual administrative assistance in tax matters (Prop. [[2016-2017]] 162 S authorising the entry into force of an agreement between Norway and Switzerland amending the date of entry into force of the OECD/Council of Europe Agreement on mutual administrative assistance in tax matters (Prop. [[2016-2017]] 163 S on the financing of the Northern Hordland package in Hordaland (Prop. 164 S [[2016-2017]] on the Law on Border Surveillance and Border Control of Persons [[2016-2017]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e127	Propositions will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative, Marit Arnstad, will present three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e134	On behalf of the representatives of Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Siv Mossleth and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ensure that teachers trained before 2014 continue to retain full teaching skills. On behalf of the representatives of Heidi Greni, Jenny Klinge, Liv Signe Navarsete, Willfred Nordlund, Siv Mossleth, Sandra Borch, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Ole André Myhrvold and myself, I would like to make a proposal for an opportunity to reverse decisions on the coercion of municipalities. Finally, on behalf of the representatives Jenny Klinge, Emilie Enger Mehl, Sigbjørn Gülsvik and myself, I would like to make a proposal to strengthen the local police.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e143	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e148	I will make a proposal on behalf of Willfred Nordlund, Ivar Oddnes, Per Olaf Lundtägen and myself to strengthen recruitment and funding of the fixed medical system, in line with the intentions of the cooperation reform. Then I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Ole André Myhrvold, Heidi Greni, Willfred Nordlund and myself to strengthen the financing arrangements for the establishment of hospitals, nursing homes and day-care facilities. Then I have the honour to make a last proposal on behalf of the representatives of Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Marit Arnstad and myself to introduce a system that secures the elephants from the 1st to the 10th. steps at least one hour of physical activity each day.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e157	The representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e163	I have the honour to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Heidi Greni, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Ivar Odnes, Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Kjersti Toppe, Nils T. Bjørke, Liv Signe Navarsete, Sandra Borch, Geir Adelsten Iversen and myself on the re-arrangement of decisions on the re-classification of the regionally elected level.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e168	The representative of Ms Maria-Karine Aasen-Svensrud will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e173	On behalf of the representatives of Terje Aasland, Lene Vågslid, Dag Terje Andersen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative that the county municipalities of Vestfold and Hedmark should remain as independent county municipalities and not be forced to merge into one region.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e178	The representative, Stein Erik Lauvås, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e183	On behalf of the representatives of Svein Roald Hansen, Sverre Myrli, Martin Kolberg, Anne Helene Sandum, Nina Sandberg and myself, I am pleased to make suggestions that the county municipalities of Østfold, Akershus and Buskerud should be constituted as independent counties and not forced to join one region.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e188	The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e193	On behalf of the representatives of Liv Signe Navarsete, Geir Pollestad, Geir Adelsten Iversen and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative setting up a public body to review the consequences of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU and Norway's alternative to the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e198	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e203	On behalf of the representatives of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Geir Adelsten Iversen, Sandra Borch and myself, I would like to propose the right to receive pension relief sent in the post office.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e208	The representative of Mr Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e213	I am going to make a proposal – some of them it concerns, feel that this is important to them. It is a proposal from Ketil Kjenseth, Terje Breivik, Carl-Erik Grimstad and me on the entire hospital structure in West Finland.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e219	The representative, Mr Ingarill Olsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e224	On behalf of the representative of Runar Seestad and myself, I would like to propose that the states of Finnmark and Troms should not be forced to merge into one region.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e229	The representative, Tore Storehaug, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e234	On behalf of the representatives of Olug V. Bollestad, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Torhild Bransdal and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to smooth out the network tariffs tab.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e239	The representative, Mr Grøvan, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e244	On behalf of the representatives of Torhild Bransdal, Tore Storehaug, Steinar Reiten and myself, I am delighted to propose the introduction of the teaching norm, that new skills requirements are not given retroactive effect and change the character requirements of mathematics for admission to teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e249	The representative of Audun Lysbakken will present all ten proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e254	President, I hope you're ready. These proposals are important for all of them. On behalf of the representatives of Lars Haltbrecken, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Arne Nävra, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself, I would like to put forward proposals to implement the Stortinget's objectives in the climate agreement to cut Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. On behalf of the representatives of Solfrid Lerbreck, Nicholas Wilkinson and myself, I would like to put forward proposals to ensure financial security for parents of seriously ill children through the care scheme. On behalf of the representatives Freddy André Hövstegård, Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to make suggestions to ensure a safe and stable child protection without any profit. On behalf of the representatives of Mona Lill Fagerås, Solfrid Lerbreck and myself, I will put forward proposals for a profit-free kindergarten. On behalf of the representatives of Lars Haltbrecken, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself, I would like to propose that no structural changes should be made in fisheries until after the Stortinget has carried out a comprehensive review of the structural policy. On behalf of the representatives of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Freddy André Øvstegård, Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to put forward proposals on fair and poverty-reducing child welfare. On behalf of the representative Petter Eide and myself, I would like to make proposals to stop exports of arms and armaments and multi-use goods to the countries intervening in Yemen, and take initiatives to make the parties responsible for the war for violations of humanitarian law and any war crimes. On behalf of the representatives of Mona Lill Fagerås, Nicholas Wilkinson and myself, I would like to propose more teachers at school – more equivalent and adapted training for the students. On behalf of the representatives of Mona Lill Fagerås, Freddy André Hövstegård and myself, I will put forward proposals on competence requirements for teaching without retroactive effect. On behalf of the representatives Petter Eide, Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to propose that Norway investigate the possibility of signing the nuclear ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e279	The representative, Mr Gunnes, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e284	On behalf of the representative Carl-Erik Grimstad and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative on the introduction of a lobby register.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e289	The representative of Une Bastholm will present five proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e295	On behalf of myself I am delighted to present the following five proposals: on a near-natural law providing permanent protection for urban, urban and nature in the vicinity of which people live on a drug reform to ensure harm prevention and individual health care for drug addicts suspending the granting of new readmissions on a Norwegian base on a raise for the Norwegian circular economy through recovery of waste for economic operators and municipalities on the phase-out of the use of environmental pollutants in consumer products
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e316	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 and end no later than 6 p.m. 22nd@item: inlistbox The debate on the throne will continue tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e334	The President will propose that the debate be organised as follows: The debate takes place over two days and begins with speeches by parliamentary leaders of up to 10 minutes, followed by a row of up to six lines. Then 44 posts of up to 5 minutes will be closed in full on the first day of the debate and will be distributed among the parties as follows: Labour Party 13 posts, Right 12 posts, Progress Party 7 posts, Centre Party 5 posts, Socialist Left Party 3 posts, Left 2 posts and Christian People's Party 2 posts. It opens up up to four lines on each post after two of the posts from the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party and after one of the speeches from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. Five Councils of State shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each, with a subsequent row of up to six lines. After completion of the allocated speaking time, open for articles of up to 3 minutes. Wednesday's meeting will be set at 9 a.m. 10 and starting with a post from the Prime Minister of up to 15 minutes, followed by a row of up to 14 lines. Then, any remaining 3-minute speeches from today's meeting, as well as those from Tuesday's debate. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e355	President, congratulations! Some of the biggest challenges Norway has faced in recent decades are now moving closer. It characterizes the entrance to this landfill period. We need to reverse the trend with more and more young people who do not get a job or who only get unsafe jobs. It's urgent. A falling proportion of us are at work, we are experiencing increasing alienation, which weakens the very foundations of our social model – safe work and well-being for all. We need to provide better quality care to several older people. It's urgent, because the increase in the number of elderly people will shoot speed in the years to come. During this ageing period, we must start to cut greenhouse gas emissions significantly. We must, overtime, establish an agreement with the EU and cut off as monks in Norway. It's urgent – if we're going to achieve Storting's goal of 40 pst. Cut by 2030. In the census, the government states that ‘a sustainable welfare society’ is an objective that we need to achieve. If that goal is to be achieved, the next four years can't be like the last four. We cannot continue to spend too much oil money and at the same time spend too little time, energy and money on the challenges that are really important and that are now moving closer. Norway can do better than that. Before the big shot, we gave this promise: ‘We shall make Norway the most important part of Norwegian policy.’ That will be our guide even after the election, in the magnification period that is now beginning. The election gave a different result for the Workers' Party than we wanted. I would like to congratulate Prime Minister Erna Solberg on the result of her continuing as Prime Minister. At the same time, the red-green side of the policy has strengthened in this decision-making process. The so-called Nydalen parties gained less prominence in this choice than in 2005 and 2009. The composition of the new Greatness, with a weakened right-hand side, therefore offers new opportunities for new majority voting in many cases. Policies can be pursued in a more fair, climate-friendly and responsible direction in the future than in the previous period. The Labour Party will work hard to do so, in areas such as employment, equality and family policies, in areas such as rural and industrial policies, where a new growth will allow a policy for the whole country. If we are to meet and solve the demanding tasks that are now ahead, we must build on the best of Norway: high trust and small differences, strong communities and fundamental security at a time of change. If we build on these characteristics of our country, there is hardly any country that is better equipped to meet the older wave, reduce the exclusion of the labour force, or make the transition to a climate-friendly society. Let me give you some examples of what this means: Building on the best of Norway means strengthening the organized working life, not weakening it, as we have seen in recent years. It is essential to maintain the Norwegian model of society. For this reason, we are asking the government today to make proposals to amend the Working Environment Act in order to limit the use of fixed-term rentals in order to ensure a safer working life. Building on Norway’s best means that more young people in practice are rapidly entering the labour market. In this way, we can help to reduce the number of exclusions in Norway, not increasing, as has been the case in recent years. At our best, we in Norway take joint responsibility for giving everyone the opportunity to acquire their skills and get to work. For this reason, we are asking the government today to present measures to ensure that all qualified applicants with youth rights are guaranteed the provision of apprenticeships after the second stage. Building on the best of Norway means that we jointly take responsibility for achieving our climate goals by 2030. One of the best things about Norway is that we are able to make major societal changes in broad cooperation across sectors. That is what climate policy needs to do. Our proposal that the state should contribute up to 70 pst. of the investment costs of large collective development in large cities, is one expression of this ambition. If we are to remain good at migration in Norway, we need to strengthen, not weaken, the traits of our society that have just made us good at dealing with demanding challenges in common, strengthening the features of our society as equality between men and women – a topic that was hardly mentioned in the Common Era or in the government's statement on the state of the kingdom. This is why the Workers' Party is today promoting proposals to increase the birth rate to 14 weeks, to give children and fathers time together and to contribute to equal opportunities in working life. We want to strengthen the traits of our society, as small differences. That is why the Labour Party will continue to fight against large tax cuts from the Progress Party and the Right, which are increasing the differences at a time when the protests, the mind, in many countries around us show how wrong it is when inequalities increase. Being the largest opposition party commits. We're going to take our responsibility and do the job as an opposition. We have to be critical where it's in place. Let me give you a fresh example: for a long time, the Joint Union has criticised the government for its weak efforts against social dumping in the construction industry. Last week, the National Association of Construction also called for an alarm. They wrote that ‘a major weakness in work against work crime is that there is a lack of coordination and leadership’ by the government. There is deserved criticism – which we will quickly include in this Chamber, with new proposals for action and with the seriousness of this matter. As a large and responsible opposition party, we will help find good solutions for Norway. It is the responsibility of the government to contribute not only to the anchoring of such solutions in Stortinget, but to follow them in a good and inclusive manner afterwards. In a more unpredictable world, it is particularly important to widen the scope of Norwegian foreign and security policy. The EEA Agreement and Norwegian NATO membership form the basis for this policy. Norway shall be recognised as a defender of international law, a supporter of the United Nations and an instigator of human rights and disarmament. Yes, the main lines are fixed. At the same time, the world around us is in great change. We need to have a ceiling to open up the discussion of these changes and the consequences they have for Norwegian interests. We will be constructive and critical in opposition. At the same time, as the largest opposition party, we have to be a clear alternative to the politics of the right. In the next big period, and based here in Stortinget, we're going to develop that option further. We need to develop labour and competence policies – develop new and effective measures that will allow the major technological revolution that is now taking place in our working life, such as trade in goods, to have its political counterpart in new lifelong learning policies. We need to develop immigration and integration policies. We will be at the broad agreement in Stortinget from 2015. We must stand up to those who spread fear and division and make minorities unsafe. We're going to develop integration policies so that we get more immigrants into work and into our society. We're going to develop district policy. We will formulate new answers on how to ensure increased confidence in the future and growth in the whole country – without the necessary changes stopping, and without setting the city on a collision course with countries on a case-by-case basis, as we have seen in recent years. We will develop business policies to exploit Norwegian assets, natural resources and ownership and to provide the basis for new jobs in the coming years. When we meet in this Chamber over the next four years on responses to the major challenges facing Norway, it is even clearer than in the previous period that it is not on the right of the Right majority party and the good solutions. The working party shall, as the largest opposition party, do what is in our power to drag the policy of an altered accumulation towards the centre-left. Only in this way can we face major challenges in society with a policy based on Norway's best interests, such as small differences and strong Community solutions. With this I take up the proposals from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e411	The representative Jonas Gahr Støre has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e418	After a long and exciting election campaign and after many rounds of evaluations and discussions on what went wrong for the Workers' Party, I think that the representative Gahr Støre today announced a responsible policy – he was concerned about it – while before the representative Gahr Støre, we did not experience a spring flood, but a harvest flood of representative proposals that all, at least many of them, have large cost pages. Now, if we're going to be more preoccupied with oil money usage, we have to do something to make the public sector more efficient, make the public sector work smarter, make the public sector more out of the dollars. Then is the question of the Workers' Party: Will Jonas Gahr Støre contribute to the necessary reforms, reconciliation and cooperation to help the public sector work smarter, so that we can give more room for a sustainable welfare society?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e425	Like the representative, I am delighted with the harvest flood of good proposals, which will receive positive treatment in this great process of new constellations. The word ‘reform’ means to do things better. The representative can be sure that the Workers' Party will be a driving force for doing things better in our entire society to make better use of resources, promote people's initiative and knowledge and have respect for it. In the public sector, we need to continue to work on using new technologies in order to do things better, as we had a long experience in our government – digitisation, efficiency improvement. But above all, I think it's important to play with those who work in this sector, to give them confidence and not to steer them down to the smallest detail, so that they feel that they are being hit by bureaucratic, demanding and costly solutions. We have the most important resource in those who work there, and then I think it's wasted time with structural change reforms, with a regional reform that I called in the election campaign a piece of reform – I think it still is – and with other reforms that basically red tape rather than doing things more efficiently and well for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e432	Now we're not going to make this round just a round of regional reform. But it is interesting that the representatives that the Workers' Party is now promoting will transform three regions and go back to seven states. It is probably not a contribution to a more efficient public sector that provides room for creating welfare services. The secondary schools are there, but it's the administration, having more coordinated real policy, etc., that becomes important. We can only do increasing taxes once, and the Labour Party suggested in the election campaign to increase taxes by 15 billion. kr. In our opinion, it is an expression of political laxity and short-term thinking. There is no solution to go from using oil money to using people's savings, and that's why it has to be more efficient. Why then does the Workers' Party start this session by reversing a regional reform that they themselves have previously worked actively to achieve without succeeding?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e439	This is a reform which the representative is actually opposed to. He's against the level, he's against those regions and has never burned for them. I will come back later in this debate and point out some weaknesses in them. I think it's a piece of cake, because it creates a very unbalanced Norway, and it's also a regional reform that almost doesn't contain what these new regions are going to do. That's why we have to do this in the way that they've shown up in Trine layers: two states have joined together for good and thorough processes from below. They seem to succeed in some of the same thing in Agder, and it might come in some other parts. The working party is whole-hearted and also pushes. Then we're going to have a tax and distribution policy that's both fair and necessary. And now we'll see on Thursday, when the government budget comes, what ability does the government have to give priority within the responsible framework and at the same time make Norway the most important thing in policy, including in budgetary policy. Then we'll look at how the distribution will help us maintain good services, renew Norway and do it in a way that people know about, and where they can also do their best.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e448	An orderly and well-organised working life is a fundamental pillar of Norwegian society. This is now under pressure. For a hundred years, registered port workers have had a contractual agreement with priority rights for unloading and loading in Norwegian ports, but on 18 September this year a new tariff agreement for port work was agreed. To ABC News September 21st, the leader of the Transport Workers' Union, Lars Johnsen, said: ‘The EEA Agreement disregards our previous agreement. Of course, we want a collective agreement that gives preference to registered port workers. [[...]] Here there is an interference in the free trade right in Norway from the EEA.’» In line with ILO Convention No, the representative agrees that it is the EEA Agreement which has forced the transport workers to conclude a collective bargaining agreement in which the preferential rights of registered port workers are removed and the Workers' Party will support the initiative of the Stortingen to ensure the preference of port workers. 137?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e458	I believe that it is possible to find good arrangements for our port workers and for the tasks they will perform in Norwegian ports, within the framework of the EEA Agreement. I believe that within this agreement there is room to meet both pay, working conditions and conditions, in line with Norwegian traditions, while also following the principles of the EEA Agreement relating to establishment. The EEA Agreement has consistently proved to be in line with the objectives of Norwegian working life. The large investigation we had in 2012 showed that there had been a continuous lifting for Norwegian workers, both on the rights side, on the income side and in most other areas. Then there are challenges that we are going to face offensively, but the Labour Party believes that we can do well within the framework of this agreement. A road that would require us to cancel the agreement or leave it – which the representative is calling for – would make Norwegian workers more insecure and more uncertain as regards both work and rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e465	The working party participated in some conciliation in Stortinget in the previous period. Among other things, there was a settlement on the tax reform, where agreement was established to reduce tax rates both for enterprises and for persons and also to reduce taxes on wealth on working capital — while the Labour Party in the election campaign promised that they would increase taxes by 15 billion. kr, just the opposite of what the tax reform actually adds up to. Can we interpret this as a signal that the Workers' Party will no longer contribute to a broad consensus in matters and in areas that are very important – both for Norwegian enterprises, Norwegian taxpayers and for value creation in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e471	It is a big mistake by the representative Limi – who I suspect is really aware of. The tax settlement that came into the Storting had a substantial responsibility for the Workers' Party, both for the proposals that were made, and for what it became a majority. Of course, we have to stand by it. We then lived up to something fine in Norwegian policy, namely that we agree on the structure of the tax system. We can have a slightly different view at the level. In addition, the Workers' Party had in its arrangement reduced the valuation of so-called working capital to 80 pst. – more than the government party did – to provide support to the companies concerned. We are going to implement the tax settlement, in line with the agreement. We have, as I said, a different view of the distribution effect. We can have the same structure for the property tax, even though we believe that the rates should reflect that those of us with the strongest shoulders pay something more. That's why the tax arrangement that we went to elections on, and what we stand for here in the Storting, is completely in line with the agreement. The representative will also recognize this when our proposals arrive.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e480	As we know, the parties in Norway disagree with the question of how Norway can best contribute to the world getting rid of nuclear weapons. Government parties stress that they do not want Norway to join the ban on nuclear weapons, but there is some uncertainty about the position of the Workers' Party. The representative Gahr Støre also did not mention anything about this in his post. In recent days, the media have been given the impression that the Workers’ Party supports the work of an international ban, but it is unclear whether the Workers’ Party supports SV’s initiative to investigate a possible process with a view to Norway joining it. My question to Gahr Støre is therefore whether the Workers' Party will support the government's rejection line or whether the Workers' Party will cooperate with SV to find a constructive role for Norway in how we can contribute to the world getting rid of nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e487	When this expansion begins its work, the Workers' Party, through work in the committees, will ensure that there is a clear expectation for the government to show how it will work for disarmament in a broad field, including in the nuclear field. It happened in the previous period, and is to be done now. Because Norway chose to step out of the initiative that the previous government started, and in which I was active, the result of the process, the treaty that has been adopted in the United Nations, was a different one than it could have been. It is, as it is today, not of such a nature that the Workers' Party will be in favour of signing it. But that does not mean that we should be passive in the area of nuclear disarmament, where initiatives are needed, including from countries like Norway. That is why we will meet constructively in committee proposals. The SV’s proposal has today in its opening text ‘signification and ratification’. We're not for that. But the work that we're going to be a pusher in this area, we're in favour, and we're going to make demands and expectations about this. I think the bulk of the population is going to show the government that it has to tighten up and make new efforts in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e492	I want to ask about something that the representative barely got the opportunity to mention in their ten minutes. This is an area in which an enormous amount of action has taken place, both internationally and nationally, namely the environment. One sees from the throne that one now sees it as a main wager, while in the past, by the government before this, it was only mentioned as the main wager in relation to the trading of allowances. We see that we have an agreement with the EU, which is going to be important in the future, and that several Workers' Party representatives raised uncertainties in the election campaign. We have seen that the environmental opposition in the Workers' Party has lost in several cases, such as: The Lofoten and the Vesterål. But we also saw that many in the Workers' Party during the election campaign referred to the lack of climate and environmental policies in the Workers' Party as one of the weaknesses of the Party. My question is twofold: does Gahr Støre agree with the criticism from his own people that environmental and climate policy has been pursued? And: Can we see a new climate and environmental policy from the Workers' Party in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e497	The answer to the first question is no, and the answer to the second question is yes. That's the short version. I believe the Workers' Party presented a very important environmental policy in the election campaign. I mentioned something on the pulpit, among others. financing of public transport in large cities. We presented proposals on the coast and sea, ferry exchanges, new assignments at Norwegian shipyards, the use of environmental technology funds to create jobs in new technologies and to provide solutions that are good for both the environment and the climate. Then we're going to learn how the election campaign gave us feedback. But we had climate as one of our main fields of action. Yes, there will be new policies in the next period, as it did in the previous one – as the Workers' Party was driving the oil fund out of coal, as the Workers' Party contributed to a new majority in this area. It was delayed a year because of the representative Skei Grande – unfortunately, it should be said. But we're going to make new proposals, and we're going to get a fraction and figures for climate and environment that's going to make Skei Grande go speechless. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e506	Now we'll see about that. The cord shift is over. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e513	Honored president and dear grandpa! This assembly has gained confidence from the Norwegian people. We have different party color and ideological position, but we all have in common that we want to make Norway even better. We have just put behind us a demanding election campaign. There we've probably said things to each other that are a little bit more acute than what we're usually comfortable with. Then it is good to come back to normal work in Stortinget, where we can start with blank sheets and work for a better Norway. For the second time after World War II, a Right-led government has been re-elected. It's a trust statement from the voters. I think the voters have given Erna Solberg renewed confidence because the government has good results to show and clear visions of where Norway is going to go. In 2013, voters voted for shorter health cows, more school education, more roads and public sector reforms. It was not just about new faces, as the Workers' Party said, but about new ideas and better solutions. The voters got what they asked for, and responded by re-trusting the government. Government policy is just about managing trust in a good way and doing what you say you should do. That's why it's important for the government to deliver on our election promises. It is about creating more jobs, preferably jobs that contribute to the income side of the state budget, not more jobs that live on the state budget. It will be crucial to continue to strengthen well-being in Norway, because it is the workers and businesses that pay for the fantastic welfare model that Norway is. It is also about investing in early school efforts and making sure that our rivers learn more, and that fewer falls away. Furthermore, we will provide patients with health services with shorter health cows and more predictable treatment, as well as a quality reform in the care of the elderly: live your whole life. Not least, we are going to create safer Norway by investing in defence, police and preparedness. We're lucky to be big-time representatives in Norway. Our National Assembly has the tradition of working well together to create a better society. Looking at the countries around us, we see signs of increasing polarisation in politics. Political persuasion is replaced by political conflict, which means that several countries are caught up in politics. This makes confidence in the political system fall, and the good political solutions do not find the way to the surface. Norway is not there today. On the contrary, our great strength as a nation is that we have been united on important steps to create the welfare society we are today. In many ways, we agree on many of the key policy objectives. We want little differences, a working life with room for everyone and a school that gives people opportunities in their lives. We've been good at taking the best of two worlds: we've been, for example. both a free market economy and an effective policy to combat exclusion. In the Grand Duchy, this has been expressed in broad agreement on several important pillars of our society, such as the social security system and foreign and defence policy. Only in the last 15 years has the Storting assembled on pension settlements, tax settlements, defence settlements, immigration settlements and child care settlements, to mention something. This is a great strength of Norwegian democracy and a quality that many other countries envy us. I choose to use the opportunity today to remember this, because this is a value of Norwegian democracy that is easy to take for granted. In a world of social media and click media, we as politicians are increasingly being asked for clearer speech and more conflict. But in such a world, we have to remind ourselves of the good political processes The Norwegian big business is known for, because these are processes we deserve to keep up. In particular, this becomes important when we have to deal with pressing times. The switchover of our main industry, the oil and gas industry, is not completed even if unemployment is now falling, growth is rising, and more people are coming to work. We still need to create more jobs, especially in the private sector. At the same time, digitisation and automation will make it necessary for us as a population to have a particular focus on the skills they need for the new jobs. This requires a profession, digital competence, and ensuring that no one goes out to date. It's not going to be a lack of tasks to solve in society. The electric wave is no longer just a scenario, but too many municipalities are getting real. By 2030 we'll be more than twice as many older. That's one of the biggest problems we're facing in the coming years. All those who have called for tighter budgets and less oil money use can, in other words, go to brighter times. Because with the demographic challenges that Norway is facing, and with the obligations that Stortinget has already given in terms of transport and defence, to name a few, the action space in the Norwegian economy will become tighter. It requires politicians from all parties to be a little bit more good at saying how good intentions are to be paid, not just what they want to give more money to. And I hope that as politicians we can be a little bit more creative than just demanding more of people's savings. In many ways, Norway will enter into a new normal situation, where it will have to set levels by industry. Good ideas on how to use the tax dollars smarter, so that you get more well-being for the money, will be sought. In particular, politicians who are able to reform and modernise, not just reverse, will be needed. As Norway’s largest government party, the Right will take responsibility for getting a Norway that is at its best. We will vote in favour of policies that make a good Norway even better. When the challenges require it, the Right will invite the parties on the Stortinget to come together to solve the challenges facing us as a nation. I hope that Storting's support for new necessary reforms and reconciliation will help to take care of Norway as the world's best country to live in. There will be enough of the challenges to address. The power wave and digitisation have already been mentioned, but I would also like to highlight the need to address the exclusion in Norway, namely to ensure that those who can work get a job. When we are going to take care of the welfare of Norway, it requires not only that we have a sustainable well-being economically but also climate-friendly. Norway shall meet its obligations towards the EU and cut emissions by about 40 p.m. in the non-quota sector by 2030. When one observes the enormous technological advances the world has made in low-emission and low-emission vehicles at sea in the last four years, I become optimistic considering that this is possible. However, it is important for the Right that we carry out this transition in a smooth manner, without losing the confidence of the population or the business community. All the domestic ambitions of this ageing process in order to create a better Norway are based on a fundamental premise that Norway is safe. Therefore, strengthening defence and preparedness in Norway is an important priority for this government. It is our most important commitment to the electorate in Norway, to keep Norway safe. We will probably also see an unpredictable and complex threat and crime scene in the coming years. The terror we saw last week in the United States, and the demanding situation on the Korean peninsula reminds us of it. This is precisely why it is so important that the Stortinget follows the consensus of the long-term defence plan and completes the police reform. No matter who controls the country, Norway should be among the safest countries in the world to live in and the world's best country to live in. That's the biggest thing in the world. This will require that we both take care of what is good and at the same time develop new policies. I look forward to a new government period and a new big session with good political struggles where we are constantly working to make Norway even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e555	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e560	I noticed that both the representative of Helleland and I have a picture of the Hallingskarvet in our office. It's because I love it mountain, and it's because Helleland comes from that valley. I've learned that on the top of the Halling Arch you can see one-sixth of Norway, but you only see half of the Week. That is, you don't look at Halden. Now, Buskerud-man Helleland is about to become the Viken-man. I wonder how he feels about it. Since he is so concerned that this is going to be good for the management of Norway and efficiency in Norway, we are now going to organise the secondary school from Ål to Halden, Moss, Fredrikstad, coordinate and get close there. 1.2 million people are going into this region, twice the number of people that the next region. Is this a good structure for Norway? Since Greece's speeches were so pervasive that now we should all be so constructive – and I have said that we should be a constructive opposition party – the question is: how constructive majority party is Right? Will the Right join in and look at this again, so that we get a Norway that we can be proud of, by the way we're organized and arranged?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e565	It's true that when one is at the top of the Hallingscarve, at the Folarskardnuten, it looks a long one, but if one looks at Halden, I'm not quite sure. What I'm sure is that the construction chosen is not about Halden and Haugastøl. It's about the city we're in now is a gravitational field for both Eastfold and Buskerud. I would remind you that it was County rapporteur Ole Haabeth in Eastfold and County rapporteur Roger Ryberg in Buskerud, both from the Workers' Party, who took the initiative for the Vikings, so there must have been thoughts in the Buskerud Workers' Party and Eastfold Workers' Party that have obviously been overrun by the party leadership. We must be constructive, but once we have concluded a written agreement with three other parties on a regional breakdown in Norway, I expect that agreement to be in place. This is also the case with Gahr Støre, I hope that the agreements we have concluded can be continued. Then we'll have to discuss what we don't have an agreement on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e572	This was a typical Right-answering. I asked what Helleland meant, and then he came up with what Haabeth and Ryberg mean. I can talk to them, but the counties in the three counties have said no. They have voted against this arrangement, they are against it. The representative Hareide, one of the partners behind this decision, has said that this is far from a perfect reform, one must look at it more closely. In the tone that the representative of Greece drew up, which I think was both mild and kind as the representative himself, it is to let us sit down and look at this solution. This cannot be the way we organise Norway around the capital, with 1.2 million people, once you have opposed it. My question is again: what does the Right really mean? I know you didn't worry about the third level. Now there's an opportunity to tackle this again, do it functionally, arrange it so that people recognize it. Those proposals are in the Stortinget. Will the representative, in line with the post he made, stand up on that duel?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e578	Right, it's what the Workers' Party meant to the point of narrowing the partisan. In Buskerud there was a broad majority in the county to go in for the Viking. Then something happened that made everyone turn around. I think it was a representative meeting, it's probably often what matters in the Workers' Party. But the county team was clear. The county council in Buskerud was clear. I have no problem defending the Viking – rather than artificial structures. The working party really doesn't have any structures, they just want to go back to the old state division of the day. If we're going to have a more efficient public sector, I'm not afraid that those who apply to Ål secondary school will be sent to Halden. We in the Right are followers of free school choices. It allows you to go to high school at Gol, in Numedal, at Ål. One does not have to travel to Eastfold, although it is certainly nice to travel there as well. They might have some lines and some offers that we don't have in Buskerud, and that would be positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e583	The next replicator is Kjersti Toppe. I think Greece needs to be a little bit more. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e590	I felt that I was asking. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e595	The centre party was the winner of the election. We were the most obvious opposition party against government policy. A voter told me in the election campaign that he didn't vote at the Center Party because we promised things in the election campaign, but because we wanted to move society in a direction that he meant was very good. One important value in such a society is that we can be a people who trust each other. The central government reform for the public sector is that we want a leadership culture where we trust people who do the job in the first line service. The direction of the government is to centralize. It's about the police, it's about Nav, the municipality and the county, and people are responding to this rate. The right-wing parliamentary leader, Trond Helleland, said in Hallingdølen on 30 July that there were too many reforms at once. Greece showed self-recognition, but of course he lost confidence. The government is running through reforms with coercion, towards the majority of the populace in municipalities and counties. My question is: Does the Right after the option show the same self-recognition and stop the centralization work where a set system leads people in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e604	I will give the representative Kjersti Toppe right in one thing: the centre party was the most obvious opposition party in this election campaign, at least in terms of district policy and centralisation. I had several nice rounds with Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum on district policy. There we have a slightly different starting point, but I believe that transport, investing in road construction, linking the country together, trusting that private business in the districts is able to create new jobs, is proving to be producing results. Travel life in Norway is going down so, it's amazing development in the seafood industry, district industries are doing well. The counties that are the typical districts have the lowest unemployment, so there we have a jewel that we're going to polish further. But that doesn't mean we can say that the public sector is not going to go through changes, and that's where we find that the centre party is a little bit backward. But I believe that the Central Party has given very good signals now after the elections, most recently in our country, and I look forward to working with the Central Party during this period, on reforms we can agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e609	At first, I wanted to say that I have always seen the Right as a business. The people of Lofoten, where I come from, are clear about what they think about oil drilling in our neighbourhoods. All 76 pst. in the election campaign said no to oil drilling in these vulnerable areas. The reason why this view is so strong is the consideration of existing industries in Lofoten, especially the fishing industry, which is Norway’s second largest export industry. When the whole 76 pst. by the people of Lofoten say no to oil drilling outside the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja, is my question to the representative of Greece: do such figures impress the parliamentary leader in the Right, or is the fisheries industry so important to the representative of Greece as long as it is about opening up the LowSee to the oil industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e614	It is clear to me as the Right parliamentary leader that so many say no to oil drilling in Lofoten. That's exactly why the Right has been a member of the Impact Assessment. Knowing what you're going to do if you're going to start drilling oil, you're going to have to be something that's actually pretty important. We are very concerned about – as I was in the previous article – both tourism and fish. The lofoot is really a jewel that has all the prerequisites for success, and no one will put it into play. The point with the Norwegian oil sector is that it is the world's safest and has evolved. But what we mean is very simple. We want to investigate the consequences. So there will be discussions here in the house if it actually becomes possible to get to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e619	I assume that the Right may still be interested that it is possible to reach an agreement not to comply with the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja. But I'm going to ask a question about the most important task that we – and the rest of the world – face: limiting global warming and fulfilling and strengthening the Paris Agreement. The left is very pleased that in the debate on the throne it was mentioned that we want an agreement with the EU to reduce our emissions by 40 pst. towards 2030. In the last period, we have had good cooperation, and we have ambitious objectives: only zero-emission vehicles will be sold in 2025, there is a commitment to public transport, we have support for green conversion, whether it be Enova, renewable AS or an environmental technology system. However, Greece also believes that we are facing a narrower economic environment. Then my question becomes: is the Right nevertheless concerned that we need to have the same high level of ambition in order to achieve the climate goals in Norway, and a leadership role in achieving green transition, also internationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e626	The answer could have been very simple: Yes, we are. Through this four-year period that we have behind us, we have really developed climate and environmental policies in good cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party. It's been one of the most dynamic areas, where a lot has happened. Much has been created along the way because we have developed new instruments, but we see how the technology-optimistic approach we have in many areas, now yields results; electric car policy, ferry emission policy, etc. New technology is constantly evolving. We are fully behind this and believe that it is smart for Norway to be committed to a climate-friendly policy, because it will also be an important industry for Norway in the future when oil gradually begins to become less important. But there's a balance here. We know that oil and gas will be – and are – important for the financing of AS Norway. That's why we have to find that balance, and we have to create room for the good climate solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e631	Right and Christian People's Party were some about ten weeks old. So we've seen the consequence of it: the father's quota and the number of fathers taking out the paper issue, have gone down. When Councillor Monica Meland saw the results, she said she was going for 14 weeks of paper school. The Prime Minister went so far that she said she was disappointed with Norwegian men. I want to add that for my own part I took out 14 weeks, voluntarily. The Christian People's Party has a very good solution here: we go to 14 weeks, we expand the number by four new weeks, so that it doesn't go at the cost of family choice. Is there a solution that Right seems good and that Right will consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e638	One of the main estimates both in the census and in my post was that we have to start looking at what things cost and how society is going to use the income we have. Expanding by four new weeks will have a cost, and I expect, and hope, that with all the other good proposals that are or will be promoted here today, the Christian People's Party will be involved in a discussion on how to finance this in that case. As Jan P. Syse said in his day: «We politicians are often against the sum of everything we are for.» These are many good and ideal goals. I'm a fan of a long paper commission, I even had a split with my dear wife who was quite good: fifty-five. It's possible to do that. But I want my father to take a greater responsibility, and that's the important thing. Then we have to see how we can make it happen. Now there are many suggestions on the table, but it has an economic cost, which I hope the Christian People's Party will join in and evaluate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e644	On 11 September, the Norwegian people went to the polls and decided that the Advance Party would continue in government. I want to thank the voters for the trust they have shown us again. It is historic, even in the European context, that the smallest party in a minority government delivers what the Progress Party has done in this election. There was no need for warnings about what would happen if the Progress Party got into the government offices. It was claimed that it would rage the school, kindergartens, agriculture and employment, and the oil fund – it was to be emptied. All claims have been thoroughly rejected. There have been four good, but demanding years while we have been in government. Norway has experienced the highest oil price drop in 30 years, leading to the loss of the job of tens of thousands in the oil industry. In particular, the situation in the South and West was difficult. This had to be met with targeted actions. We cut taxes for business, we launched an action package of almost 10 billion. NOK, and we have increased the travel budget by about 50 pst. since we took up the government offices in 2013. While the Progress Party has been in government, new jobs have been created every year. We provide security in everyday life for most people. Our policies work. There have been challenges that we have solved together with the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left in a good way – not always easy, but together we have managed to find good solutions. War, unrest and poverty in Africa and the Middle East have sent millions of people fleeing to Europe. The European Asylum Institute was not clear or made for the number of migrants that came in 2015. Norway had to tighten up for, among others: ensuring good integration. The result has been clear and clear. In 2016, the lowest number of asylum seekers came to Norway in 20 years, and we are among the best at integration. Policies work. The party of progress has proved to be a powerful and manageable party. This fact has also been brought to the electorate. I'm going to admit that it's a little delicious to be done with the election campaign. I think the voters also think – a campaign that many people think consisted of politicians who often talked in their mouths and focused on what the opponents did and said, instead of on their own solutions. There should be no doubt about what the Progress Party is taking into account in the negotiations on a new government platform, and what we want to do during this period. The population has seen what has happened in recent years. They have seen how taxes and taxes are reduced, how health cows go down, and how infrastructure is built and maintained. People have not recognized themselves in the black paint of Norway, in the story of how bad everything is going, and why taxes should be increased. The truth is, most arrows point in the right direction for the Norwegian economy. This is also the reason why the voters chose to re-trust the Right Party and the Advance Party in the year's elections. In the last period, taxes and charges were lowered by 22 billion. kr. That's a lot of money. And $8,000 in tax bills comes well with too many families. The opposition has thought that this is small money, and there may be too many in the Workers' Party, but not for most people. This year, too, the Progress Party has gone to the elections to lower taxes and taxes. For us, it is important that tax cuts benefit people. It is important to cut income taxes by increasing the base deduction and by lowering the rate. This will motivate you to work more, which is absolutely necessary in the years to come. But lower taxes also have a value in themselves by allowing people to retain a little more of their own income. This is to shift power from politicians and bureaucrats to the people, and this is to give people the freedom to decide more about their own money and their own lives. The property tax is an unsocial tax, which the Progress Party wants to liquidate. It does not take into account any income or liabilities. We were quite many who were provoked by the story of Marianne in Bodø and the large tax bill she received from the municipality. Some municipalities currently have large profits and can simply deduct the property tax. Other municipalities need to make other priorities and make their operations more efficient. In the future, municipalities must operate more rationally than they do today. This also applies in the areas of policy priorities. At the same time, I have no doubt that the municipalities will handle this work. The tax on property should be phased out and not come as a shock to the municipalities. For the Progress Party, it has always been a matter of course that everyone should receive rapid health care. It is fundamentally wrong that people have been placed in a health queue for a long time by public institutions while private institutions have had free capacity. What matters most to each and every one of us when we get sick, despite all of this, is that we can be sure that we get the best possible treatment as soon as possible. One of the most important measures in the government has therefore been to increase unit-price financing and introduce free treatment choices, precisely to ensure that the available capacity throughout Health Norway is put into service. For us, this is about putting the patient ahead of the system. Not only have free treatment choices created greater predictability for the individual, it has also created an freedom of choice that we know will be absolutely crucial for very many. Because we must not forget that the offer offered by the public health service is not necessarily what is right for everyone. Free treatment options first place patients’ needs. In the perspective of this year's communication, it was pointed out that reforms in the public sector will be important in the future in order to enable citizens to obtain the welfare services they expect and which there is a broad consensus in this room that we will have in the future as well. Now we've got New Roads, which will save the state for billions of dollars, and it's implemented a railway reform. But we must continue to reform the public sector. I hope this is something that the Labour Party and the other parties on the Stortinget will join in this period. An ageing wave is expected in the coming years. Especially from 2030 we will have a lot of pensioners over 80 years, and these will need more health care. Many will expect more than a generation before. For most people in this room, it's hopefully many years until they themselves need this kind of service, but many of us may well know that we're going to demand far more than our parents and grandparents have done. Work on the ageing wave and its cost must start now. To solve this, we don't just need to streamline public operations, we're also totally dependent on profitable industries in the future. We've been lucky with the Norwegian oil adventure and used these resources very well. State pension funds abroad are record high – despite the fact that we have had to spend more oil money for a very demanding period. Although I think it's a long time until we don't make money on oil, we have to change and find other industries as well. We therefore need a highly skilled and trained workforce to develop these industries. This is why it is so important to continue to invest in research and education, and therefore the government will create the best possible framework conditions for Norwegian business – both existing and new industries. It's about our common future and our well-being. Once again, I would like to thank the voters for their confidence in this year's elections. It was a choice whether we should increase taxes or lower them further, and whether we should have a liberal or strict immigration policy. This year’s choice was a choice of value – a choice of which direction we want Norway to go. The electorate has now given its mandate to a non-socialist majority, to which the Progress Party shall contribute to the best interests of the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e680	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e685	I think it was interesting to hear the representative Limi say that we are now negotiating a government platform. That might mean that the languages of the throne that we heard yesterday should be adjusted when a new platform sees the light of day, and the priorities come in there. Because it will be interesting to see how part of what the representative here presented as a demand from the Progress Party is to be turned into a policy. They promised against 50 billion. kr in tax cuts in the election campaign and to liquidate the property tax without compensation to the municipalities. And then he has now drawn up scenarios with pretty big problems we're going to solve. The electric wave does not come from 2030, it comes from 2020, early in that decade, and you have to start now. So my question to the representative is, how did he intend to find solutions for society – and for the municipalities – to meet these major tasks, while at the same time causing so much revenue to lapse? Is there, then, a new view after last year's agreement on the responsible use of oil money, to use more of them, or does he have other measures in the so-called more efficient direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e692	It is true that at the beginning of the new period new policies are to be developed, and there are also some discussions on the non-social side. We'll take care of that. The Progress Party has not promised 50 billion. kr in tax bill – probably others have promised it on our behalf. But it is clear that we want to reduce the level of taxation in Norway, and we want to liquidate the property tax. The property tax represents a very small proportion of the municipality's total income, and we know that the municipalities have had very good results both in 2015 and 2016, so it should be fully possible to liquidate the property tax over time. This is not what happens overnight, but over time, so that municipalities can adapt to a lower level of taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e699	Now it is true that when several municipalities have referred to property taxes, it is because they have found it absolutely necessary to solve basic tasks related to school and care for the elderly. I often hear the representative talk about the local economy getting better in 2015 and 2016. There is not much talk about 2017 – not to talk about what can happen in 2018 and 2019. So I'm still challenging that picture that you can cut the property tax and the other big taxes – 50 billion. kr was the sum of the proposals made by the Progress Party. And if you evaluate it, you're going to get to it pretty much. That's why I think it's still an expression of a social direction that is in conflict with the representative that Greece drew up – a society of small differences, with opportunities for all and equal opportunities for development across the country – when removing the income base of the municipalities to solve their practical tasks. So once again, how has the representative Limi planned to solve the basic welfare problems when the income base to solve them disappears?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e706	I expect that the representative Gahr Støre has also looked at the KOSTRA figures, where one can compare the level of costs in Norwegian municipalities. What we see is that there are huge differences between the municipalities that have low costs in their service production, and those that have the highest costs, and that operate at least efficiently. In other words, only by raising the ‘poorest in the class’ to the level of the best will a significant efficiency gain be obtained. And as I said, property taxes make up a small part of the total income of municipalities. I'm dealing with the results in 2015 and 2016, because these are known numbers. Then we can prove that the economy in the municipalities is very good. Hopefully we'll get a positive development further. It remains to be seen, but we know that the local economy is currently very good, and we know that municipalities with profits and a positive operating result have also introduced property taxes, without actually being necessary, in order to carry out what is the highest priority tasks – to provide services to the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e713	The centre party is occupied by security and preparedness throughout the country. The representative Limi says here that the government has delivered on just that in the last year, but that's not what's out there. Last week we had in the south and west countries flood situations and despaired people who feared both their lives and their homes. In the last year, several natural disasters have affected different parts of the country, with hurricanes, floods and races and events such as the Great Fire in Laerdal, where local knowledge and preparedness have been with and secure and limit the extent of damage. How do I manage the parliamentary leadership of the Progress Party now that government's centralisation reforms in the municipalities, the police and the fire services – and cut the Home Guard – will help to strengthen preparedness to deal with crises and unexpected events throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e720	This really became a little bit of a little bit of a mix-up. First of all, I believe that the Central Party was corrected and corrected several times in the election campaign on this claim of centralisation policy. It was declared dead up to several times, although it was claimed that it was a political claim that could not be factually checked. If there is something the Right Party and the Advance Party have done in the previous period, in cooperation with the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, it is precisely strengthening preparedness, granting more money for flood protection, for racial protection, for repairing tunnels, etc. It's been a high priority problem. The state budget has been allocated money, and this is, of course, something that is done in cooperation with municipalities and counties, because it is often those who have operational responsibility. But there should be no doubt that the responsibility for granting money lies here, and at the government level, and that will continue to do so in this period as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e725	«A sustainable welfare society» shall be the heading of government work over the next four years. I wonder how the representative Limi from the Progress Party sees a viable welfare society? Is ‘ready’ a fine word for well-being? And is ‘efficiency’ a fine word for downstaffing? They are added to the care of the elderly, saying that they today need a standard for increased staffing. They feel that they are already too few added to the job today. We see the same thing in school, in hospitals and in kindergarten. This government has at present been responsible for a number of unsocial cuts in welfare. Do they mean that it is viable for society as a whole to cut the social security of the Norwegian people?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e734	Absolutely not. It is precisely that we have a well-developed social security network that will create predictability and security for most people in Norway. Then, fortunately, we are in the situation that most people are able to support themselves and their own. But we know that there's someone who doesn't, and that's where we have to target the measures. What I think we'll see in the future is that if it doesn't get smaller, there'll be a slightly different budgetary situation, and that means we have to dry up a little bit of thinking. We have to look at how we can make better use of these resources to get better results, and maybe spend less money. I disagree very much with what at times seems to have been read and adopted in Norwegian policy, that one should always focus on the size of the appropriations, but very little on the results, and we have to turn that around.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e743	In the Left, we are pleased that, in the last period, we agreed on many climate targets, including the Progress Party – that together with the EU, we have a goal of reducing emissions by 40 pst. towards 2030, but also a national transport plan with a comprehensive commitment to public transport and a target of reducing emissions in the transport sector. We're doing things in Norway today that no other country is close by, with almost 30 pst. increase in sales of a zero-emission vehicle in the last month. We have also decided that the electric car benefits will last until 2020, and it is a goal that all new cars sold in 2025 should be a zero-emission vehicle. Then my question will be: is the Progress Party set up to ensure that the electric car benefits, i.e. the benefits of the other zero-emission vehicle, are we going to have to hold on long enough to ensure that we reach the goal of just selling a zero-emission vehicle in 2025?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e751	I can enjoy the representative Elvesuen that now I have also bought an electric car, and I like it very well, not least – although it is a combination of several things – because it is profitable. From a joke to a serious point of view, yes, I think what's most important in the future is to be able to get there to balance the charging policy even more in the case of cars. In the previous period, together with the Left, we have made changes to the one-off fee, just to introduce cars with low emissions, not necessarily zero, but low emissions, and Norwegian consumers and Norwegian car buyers have benefited. So it's never been meant for the electric car benefits to last forever. It is initially limited to 2020. I think we need to prepare ourselves for the situation that will arise from the fact that we still have to introduce low-emission cars, but it is not certain that that charging system will be designed in the same way as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e760	One of the debates that the Christian People's Party wanted to raise in the election campaign was that we have to stop travelling towards a sorting society. Then we know that the concrete policy will be decisive because if we close it. One of the most advanced parts in biotechnology, early ultrasonics and the opening of active death aid is the Progress Party. My question to the Progress Party is: does the Progress Party see the consequences of their policies, that it has some ethical challenges, and that we easily get a society where some people are elected, sorted away, precisely when all possibilities are given, and that we too much let technology control ethics? On the other hand, we have to let ethics control the technology. That is my challenge to the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e767	There's a very important area of Hareide here taking up, and we also see that it's a difficult field. We don't want to impose too many constraints on the possibilities that arise from using new technologies. At the same time, it must also be handled and exercised with great caution, because it can be an ethical dilemma. No one wants a sorting society, not at all. There's going to be equal opportunities for everyone, and you shouldn't be able to pick anything out. But at the same time, someone wants to use this technology to achieve something that they're not doing. So I see that it has two sides, and I think it's important to light it, especially the ethical, but not necessarily to forbid it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e774	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e779	After the election, many will try to construct their own history of the election result. Then some simple facts can be in their place. The government continues, but the government parties had a decrease of 3 percentage points, and together the four previous cooperation parties went back by 5.3 percentage points at this election. The majority that the government had in the Great Britain in the last period, with either the Left Party or the Christian People's Party, is now lost. It creates a whole new dynamic in Stortinget's work. The issues are going to be directions, and the majority will have to vary. In other words, we are facing a real minority government. Now the minority is real. In the period ahead of us, the Center Party is going to focus on the issues and try to get an impact on new policies, with different majority in this Biggest. For us, policy will be the most important thing. Previously in the fall, the doctor and social debater Per Fugelli died. He was a clear and controversial voice in many areas. I remember watching a program with a look back at his time on Røst and Værøy. Fugelli said something in this program that I noticed: I think in many ways the national consciousness is wiser than the professional. In August I read that neither Værøy nor Røst have any police anymore. Thus, it has been free from atrocities and invasions, which people are said to react strongly to. As this happened in the middle of the electoral campaign, both the police and the Minister of Justice rushed out and said that the lieutenant would now be in place. But the problem is that this is not a unique case. There's becoming a rule in District Norway. Knife stitching, accidents, finding of dead people – nothing makes any longer the impression that the police are moving out if it happens far enough from the nearest city. The frustrations it creates are most understandable. People's wits are responding. People want it to be safe, whether it lives 1000 or 100,000 people somewhere. They know that crime prevention cannot be controlled remotely. They know that everyday crime must also be combated. We have had many rounds of police reform in the last period at Stortinget. My prophecy is that more will be. The Centre Party shall contribute to our proposals for a police force capable of providing security for all, irrespective of where they live. In many ways it seems that we are now a society that can increasingly, but is doing less and less. Many people experience that systems are being set up that do not serve them well, and what is worse is that when a person takes up a protest, a person is told that one does not know his own best, or that a short and well-known animal has become operational so that the system can no longer maintain important services. One has to ask, what happened to the people up there in the billions? This concerns Nav, who is now withdrawing from its users. Those in need of advice and guidance are now asked to call or use the Internet. But Nav is not a power company, where you can call the service number and key 5 and square. Nav is the safety net of many people when life deviates from normal when it takes a heavier turn. It is alarming that Nav’s complaints have increased so strongly in the last year. This indicates that the change in Nav is going in the wrong direction. Perhaps thinking in Nav is a symptom of a public sector that efficiencies away from humans. In the education and health sector, we see something of the same thing. Reporting and forms take the time that can be used for the students or for the patients. The systems are becoming more important than humans. Such a development contributes to the feeling of the same dispensation by both the people who use public services and those who are employed there. They feel repressed to a system where practical cooperation is not encouraged and where taking operational responsibility is not premiered. At the same time, we see time and again that responsibility is being powdered by top management, and that directorates, health companies and departments are becoming indebted to each other. Many of the reforms that this government has launched in the public sector are structural changes that are about to centralise. But the same reforms are also about power and amputation, and about a kind of public governance where the system trumps the individual. One of the most important debates that Stortinget is facing in the next four years is therefore what kind of public sector we are going to have. Norway has a large number of employees in the public sector who want to do their job properly but who are currently being detailed and exposed to a lot of reporting work. The solution to this situation is not competitive outsourcing and tendering regimes. The solution is a renewal of the public sector where employees are given authority and confidence to do a good job, and where those using public services feel that they are both seen and heard. In other words, the Folketing must count. I think Frank Aarebrot expressed it well when he said this summer that the madness called New Public Management must end. Aarebrot was one of our leading mediators of politics and political history, but his efforts would almost not have given a count in the rigid quality counting system that currently applies in the university sector. The Right Party and the Progress Party have done over the last four years to target a public sector attack, both through a global centralisation in many areas and by encouraging more counting edges and more reporting, even more directorates and even more advice and selection. District policy is about balancing in many ways. Great values are being created around Norway. There is great activity and creativity, jobs are created, and taxes are paid. The value creation is great. However, the public sector must also be linked and function equally well throughout Norway. It has to be balanced. Private value creation depends on a well-functioning public sector. In the future, we're all going to hear a lot about digitization. It's shooting speed. But already now we see a dawning class distinction here. Many of those living in the districts are not allowed to participate in the new technological developments. It is not acceptable. We cannot accept that many schoolchildren do not get to deliver their homework because the Internet is too bad. We cannot accept that entrepreneurs are not allowed to develop their ideas because the online capacity is not good enough, because they happen to live outside the big cities and in the districts. But this is the everyday life of many business owners and many people in District Norway, and that's not acceptable. The centre party believes that it is time to change course. The value creation needs to develop across the country. We need to counter digital class divisions, and the public sector needs to be renewed without a strong centralisation. In other words, we must have greater confidence in those who work in the public sector, not in detail. This means that digitisation must provide opportunities for everyone, not give new class distinctions. That means we have to look at the whole country and renew the district policy that is now in the hands of this government. That means that we have to reduce differences socially and geographically. That means that we need to gain respect for our natural resources and for those who produce them. We need to allocate resources across the country, so that everyone gets a good welfare offer wherever they live. The size is now structured in such a way that it provides greater opportunities for impact on changes that can contribute to a new course. Just as the government parties are trying to construct their own history of the potion choice, they are now also trying to construct their own story of how the Storting should work. The Prime Minister obviously wants the Storting to comply with the government’s wishes so that a cross-cutting majority is avoided — otherwise, according to her statements, it can become completely unmanageable. But that is not the way parliamentaryism works. It's actually the government that has to conform to the Biggest and the majority's wishes. That's any minority government lot. The government cannot make its minority the responsibility of the Storting. The new composition of the Storting will give us an exciting time, with many opportunities on behalf of important matters. One thing is certain: the centre party should be ready to seize every opportunity. That's what democracy is called.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e819	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e824	Thank you, President – and congratulations! In the last period, the Workers' Party and the Centre agreed to strengthen the local economy. SV also agreed. A trip in the election campaign in Norwegian municipalities shows that there is a great need to strengthen services in the health and care sector, in schools, in kindergartens, to provide municipalities with opportunities to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions and, not least, to provide them with tools and money so that they can initiate measures to reduce the impact on climate. Now we hear that the Right parliamentary leader says we have to start looking at what things cost. We also hear the representative Limi say. How will the Central Party finance what I hope is still the central party's policy, to strengthen the local government's economy? And does the representative see the possibility of having a majority for that in the Stortinget below?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e831	Yes, it is true that the Centre Party and the Workers' Party merged in the previous period on the framework of the municipalities, but perhaps what is equally important, also the distribution of income to the different groups of municipalities. It's also an important question in the opinion of the Center Party. I have great hope that we will be able to agree on this in the coming period. I believe that in a more demanding economic time, priority must be given to good welfare services for citizens – at school, in kindergarten, in health – is crucial. It happens through the funds that the municipalities get. So this government has proposed a change in the income system that will give the large municipalities more money at the expense of the small municipalities. It is a development the Centre Party is concerned about, because the need for good welfare services exists throughout the country. Stripping many of the small municipalities for important revenues to transfer them to the largest cities is not a good solution to future welfare challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e838	The centre party said to the evening post in January that the municipal reform means to decentralize tasks for municipalities. At the same time, it shows that it can be done without the need to reduce the number of municipalities. And at the same time, the Center Party has said in several newspapers that if municipalities have challenges with child protection and to solve those problems, they have to move responsibility out of the municipality and into intercommunal cooperation. Now we know that Frank Aarebrot, the State Suite, who also quoted Arnstad, was very critical of intercommunal cooperation. It's simply moving power out of the municipal government hall. So my question to the Central Party is: how do you think the establishment of intercommunal companies will strengthen local democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e843	It is true that the Centre Party believes that there are many tasks that can be decentralised without one having to carry out major structural reforms, as proposed by the Right. The problem with Right Structural Reforms is that they have not even allowed the tasks to follow the reforms. There has been a purely structural change without task decentralisation. We believe that there are many tasks the municipalities are able to carry out and that they should have the opportunity to implement. We have presented it in different contexts in Stortinget. With regard to child protection, it is an important and demanding service. There are challenges in both small and large municipalities. How to solve the issue of child protection for the future should, in fact, be discussed independently of municipal size and structural reform within municipalities, because it is an important issue that merits attention to its own keel. There is also no automatic link between the fact that the large municipalities are better at child protection than the small ones. One of the very best municipalities in the country on child protection is in fact the Dovre municipality in Oppland, which is not at all the largest municipalities in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e851	I would first like to congratulate the Centre Party on a good choice. So I think a lot of people are with me in that it's good that one continues to criticize – and not sit in a department these days and reverse. I notice that the parliamentary leader spent a lot of time on the police reform. It made me think of one of the greatest contrasts in my campaign. That's when I had Siv Jensen visiting Hordaland. We started the day in a kindergarten on Askøy with happy children, and we played with them. Then we continued to operate Dark Room in Bergen and listened to the dire stories that they could tell us, stories that they research and work very systematically with. Then it struck me that the rhetoric that the Central Party has had that the number of officers' offices is the most important thing to fight crime, perhaps it is not the right one. If you're busy with cycling theft, yes – but are busy with criminals who don't know municipal boundaries and who operate online, the answer is no. My question to the Central Party is, how is a fight against the criminals who don't know municipal boundaries, and who are online, when the janitor's office is the most important thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e860	It is, of course, very important to combat online crime and, not least, crime against children online. There's no one who doesn't mean it. This is a very serious problem. What's so sad is that the Right Party and the Advance Party are setting it up against the rest of the police's work. It's sad that they use it as a breaker in that debate. When the representative here talks about his own election campaign, I can take him to the election campaign in the Nord-Trøndelag and tell him about the case when there had been a major accident in the municipality of Røyrvik in the North-Trøndelag: the nearest police patrol is 18 miles away, and it takes three to four hours before they are able to be there. The fire department has to take full responsibility alone. We can't have that kind of police service in District Norway. We must be able to provide the people with safety – whether it be major accidents, stabbing or, for example, stabbing. finding of dead people, as we've also seen around in District Norway. To set things up against each other in the way that the Right Party and the Advance Party do here is unfortunately very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e869	Today we woke up early to the report of large forest fires in California. A little while ago, we followed the Southlanders' fight against the flood. It became one of the worst in recent times. Climate change is no longer part of a distant future, it happens here and now. As the representative of Arnstad and my common favorite, the Nobel Prize winner in literature, it hit me: ‘Come gatherer’ around people Wherever you roam And adjust that the waters Around you have grown And accept it even if it is You'll be drunk to the beans If your time to you is worth saving Then you better start swimming or you'll sink like a stone For the times they are a-changin’» Cut greenhouse gas emissions over the next four years is the most important thing we can do to reduce climate change. I would therefore like to ask the representative of Arnstad whether the Senterpartiet together with SV will be involved in ensuring that Norway complies with its 2012 climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e897	The centre party is not «Like a Rolling Stone» in climate policy. We're steady. We want a practical and global climate policy. We are on the verge of reducing Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst. by 2030 and is also open to good discussions on how to do so. What is important to us is that one implements measures that have an impact — not symbolic ones, which have a minimal impact — that one implements a practical and land-based climate policy that works and that people understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e904	The central party won the election by making many voters in the district municipalities believe that the party is running the best policy for District Norway. I congratulate the Centre Party on that! Such a result requires. Then I expect something more than that the answer is primarily a symbol proposal to reverse the merger of municipalities and states. To strengthen municipalities at the expense of the state, to move power and resources and to secure more secure jobs throughout the country, in the view of the Left, it will be far more preferable to fill the local and regional reforms with real content. We tried to get the Center Party on in the previous period. The answer was in cash: it had a zero interest in it, because they would win the election by protesting. The oversight of the party was more important than the care of the districts. The option has been cleared. The question is: will the Central Party now join the Left in strengthening the municipalities and regions, and so really take a boost for the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e911	As I mentioned in a previous reply, the Centre Party has made a number of proposals on tasks that should be decentralised into counties and municipalities regardless of structural changes in the counties and municipalities. We still believe that this is the case. Unfortunately, we did not get any support for it at the last time in Stortinget, because all the four cooperation parties would link any decentralisation of tasks to structural change. It's strange that it shouldn't be possible for the Left to discuss the two things separately, because there are many tasks that can be decentralized to the municipalities without one having to change the structure for that reason. I hope that the Left will take part in the kind of debate that will take place in the coming period. I think the Center Party and the Left can have a lot to talk about when it comes to getting an actual decentralization in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e918	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e923	The main challenge for Norway is not to keep the waffle, and Rinkeby is – and will remain – part of Sweden. The most important conflict in our society is not the cultural war to which the right side wants to transform Norwegian politics. The big issues of our time are the growing inequality in power and wealth and the paralysis of action in the face of climate change. All the progress in the choice we have behind us came on the red-green side. The government is weakened, and in this Bighold there are opportunities for majority voting for a new course in a lot of issues that are important to very many people. Today, SV ten proposals for representatives that we challenge the centre parties and the Workers' Party to join this autumn. In the throne, the government can tell us that small differences are good. There are empty words from a government that more than anything else has listened to those who have the most in Norway, a government that has put the economic elite first. Yesterday came the announcement of a bonus party for Norwegian top managers. The egotism of the upper class is bad to look at when we know at the same time that the 10 pst. the worst paid in Norwegian labour soon had 10 years almost without real wage growth. In such a situation, tax cuts are not needed for them at the top. The government has rigged the tax system for the economic elite, while the workers notice little or nothing about Siv Jensen's tax cut. The bill for the tax feast is sent to some of those who find it most difficult – to amputees and fire victims who have had increased excesses, to disabled persons who have had less to live on, to those who rely on housing support, to the unemployed who have lost their holiday money, to the yard worker who was taxed at the end of the job when he lost his job – and now to sick people who are going to have more expensive medicines when the government will cut off white prescriptions, and to families with seriously ill children who have been cut off from care. What Norway needs now is a strong policy for fair distribution. We have to judge the tax system so that it helps to reduce the differences, and that work pays off more and speculation in shares and dwellings less. We have to put those that have at least first. That is why, today, we are promoting proposals for a child-restraint plan because the poor families deserve Norwegian politicians to act at last. And that is why today we are promoting proposals to reverse – yes, ‘reverses’ is a fine word when it comes to changing unfairness – cut off the care money and also give parents with long-term ill children the opportunity to care as long as the children need it. That is why we need to take back control of the labour market and the housing market. We must ensure that the most important resources belong to the community. The fish shall create coastal life, not be privatised away to quota barons and trawlers. The railway should carry people around Norway, not profits out of Norway. And our well-being should be there to create security for most people, not profit for a few. Therefore, SV is today promoting proposals to stop welfare professionals in child protection and kindergartens. We need to make sure that we have a school that doesn't give up a single child — a school that fights the class community and Divers Norway, rather than reproduce it. That is why we are today promoting proposals for a national teaching standard to make crowded classrooms history in Norwegian school. And that's why we're promoting proposals to stop the scandalous separation of experienced teachers, teachers that our children need in the years to come. In the census, there's nothing to say that the differences are growing, and absolutely nothing about what the government will do with it. Now they have to be forced to think. The SV is therefore promoting a simple proposal for voting in this Chamber during the debate on the throne. We are asking for a big message of action against the increasing inequality of power and wealth in Norway. The government is reporting tougher times for Norway. Our country will increasingly be affected by the same problems that we see ashore around us. There we see that the market liberal model has gone down. That's why democratic socialism is back as an alternative for millions of voters looking for a new path in countries like the United States, the United Kingdom, France and Spain. The inequality crisis and the climate crisis require a restructuring of our economy with a much more active state, stronger communities, strong redistribution and rapid conversion from a fossil-energy-based economy and to use up resources for a renewable energy-based economy and to re-use resources. There they – the two – meet a red policy for justice and a green policy for the environment. One is not possible without the other. Both assume that people are put ahead of the markets and that the needs of the many are put ahead of the profits of the few. Yesterday, there was probably a play from the head of Statoil that he had to pump up more oil to save the climate. In that he probably has the warm support of the government. Both oil directors and the right-hand side think more about quick money than about the rapid changes in our climate. Extreme violence is already a dramatic threat to people in large parts of the world, and the poorest are usually hit hardest. Stopping climate change is about justice. Under the civil government, the decline in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions has stopped. The period we're now starting is going to have to be the turning point. The race for new oil, increasingly deeper into the Arctic, is in reality a way of saying that Norway does not care about climate change. More coal, oil and gas have already been found in the world than is possible to burn if we are to avoid catastrophic global warming. The Arctic oil cannot be extracted if the world is to achieve its climate objectives, and if an effective climate policy is launched, it will not pay off either. Therefore, continuing to subsidise new oil exploration will prove to be a waste of money and waste with opportunities to develop tomorrow’s jobs. The fact that we still have a debate on the Lofoten, the Vesterål and Senja is absolutely incredible. There is no compromise in that matter. It shall be fished, not drilled for oil, on the Røst Sea. It never fails the people, the fishermen and the nature of Lofoten, the Western Sea and Senja. The most important thing in climate policy is not what happens in 15 or 20 years, but what happens now. We've got to get rid of them like monks. SV was the only party that put forward in the election campaign a concrete plan for how to cut emissions in the next four-year period. In that plan, we presented measures and instruments that would cut emissions by at least 5 million tonnes. That is why we are promoting this plan with 42 concrete proposals in Stortinget today. Climate change is in progress. That's enough talk – it's time for action. The peace price to ICAN was a price in time. The threat of nuclear war is more real than in a very long time, and the nuclear arsenals are being modernised instead of being built down. A UN ban seems to be the only one that can bring nuclear disarmament back on the global agenda. Within the framework of this prohibition process, the aim must be to engage in genuine negotiations between the major acts of mutual disarmament. If we are to do so, Western countries without nuclear weapons must support the ban. It's embarrassing that Norway has been on the wrong side of the United Nations. Instead of supporting the Peace Prize winner, the government is dilting after Donald Trump. Therefore, SV is proposing today that the Storting should initiate the process of assessing what the forthcoming ban will mean for Norway. Call it an impact assessment. I hope that the parties that have not yet decided will also be able to support our proposal. In the election campaign there was a lot of talk about Islamist fundamentalism. There is something in particular the Progress Party has talked about loudly and for a long time. Then it is truly a heavenly double morality in that the government allows exports of war equipment to the Islamic dictatorship in Saudi Arabia, and has resumed exports to the Emirates. We intend to give the Advancement Party a chance to fix the gap between life and learning. That is why, today, we are promoting proposals to stop exports of arms and armaments to the countries participating in the war in Yemen. SV starts this ageing period with great ambitions. Politics is about choosing sides, and we know where we stand. We put those that have the least, in front of the economic elite. We want to take back control of the labour market and the housing market. We want to put the people's right to fish in front of quota barons and trawlers. We will take care of our common well-being ahead of the welfare profitors' desire for profit. We want to take into account the climate in front of the oil directors. We will support the Peace Prize winner and not Donald Trump. With that, I take up and promote the SV's proposal in the persuasion debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e990	The representative of the Audun Lighthouse has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e997	I fully agree that the languages of the throne of the Right and the Advance Party were grey, that it lacked ambitions, and I am pleased that the opposition, including SV, is doing the job for them today; they promote many good suggestions, as in work. We now see a more brutal working life. The Workers' Party is today promoting a proposal to amend the Working Environment Act in order to dampen temporary employment. I think it is serious that someone now sees that renting replaces permanent jobs. From home, Stavanger, one knows that cutting oil has meant more renting, fewer employees. I think it's particularly serious for young workers, who now see a more uncertain job future, which makes it impossible for them, not least, to even dream of getting an own home. I wonder, therefore, whether SV shares that concern with the Labour Party and whether one will vote in favour of the proposal that the Labour Party is promoting today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1004	That concern shares SV, and we look forward to working together on proposals that allow us to gain more control over our working life. This means, for example: Strengthening the Labour Environment Act, which means strengthening the Labour Inspectorate, means increasing the penalties for breaches of labour law, and – as pointed out by the representative Tvedt Solberg – doing something about the dramatic situation of the abuse of labour hiring in Norwegian working life. SV believes it has gone so far that the answer must be to ban the manning industry in the form it has today. It should be limited to what is purely temporary employment, and not to the increasing role it has been given in Norwegian working life. I am pleased that the Workers' Party has also signaled a greater willingness to discuss how we handle labour migration. Labour immigration must not become a breakpoint for dumping pay and working conditions in Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1012	Another important area where the Labour Party also has great ambitions to get things done is within climate. This representative also mentioned in detail in his statement. It is an area that requires action, and after the elections there is an opportunity in the Storting to create momentum in climate policy. In his post, the representative used words like that now there is enough talk, now we have to get started. But unfortunately, the Left seems to reject the opportunity that lies there, and chooses to cooperate with the climate dissidents in the Progress Party rather than action. My question is therefore: to what extent does the representative Lysbakken believe that climate policy will be the loser when the Left now sits with the Progress Party and negotiates?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1019	Climate policy becomes the loser when giving power to parties that do not care about the climate challenge. I also think that the Workers' Party has now been given a golden opportunity to show the Left and other parties that the Workers' Party is willing to do more in climate policy than the right side has been. Unfortunately, the history of Norwegian politics has often been that the green parties have opposed the grey parties, and that the Workers' Party has been one of the grey parties. But now we start with blank sheets. I look forward to working with the Workers' Party. SV has launched 42 concrete proposals for emissions reductions. The Labour Party now has a golden opportunity to show that the Workers' Party is ready to be greener than the right side of Norwegian policy, and I am happy to help the Workers' Party on the way to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1026	One of the SV's real victories is kindergarten reconciliation, and now we have approximated full kindergarten coverage, kindergartens with ever better quality, increasingly better staffing, very satisfied children and parents. These results would have been unattainable without private and ideal providers. The private ones were invited to join in on the hard work of SV, which until recently has also applauded them, but no longer. The rhetoric we hear today is ious – with reference to those who have enriched themselves through cooperation with the German occupying power. They're called profitors. Is it how SV likes to thank all those who have worked hard to meet SV's political objectives? No private kindergartens receive a single crown more than the public, and how defends SV then to call them ‘welfare barons’, or perhaps ‘welfare baronesses’, because it is among other things. Are some women entrepreneurs involved? Yes, everyone who runs good private kindergartens today is called welfare profitors. How do you defend it, when it turns out that they are really welfare innovators?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1033	The right has used every opportunity to get the debate on welfare profit to trace and deal with something other than what it is about. SV is for private kindergartens. We are the foremost defenders of the small private kindergartens, who are losing under the government that is now sitting. What we're against is that money allocated to kindergartens should go to profit, to rich owners, to ports in tax havens, is used for something quite different than what was meant by the money. It's the Right that has an explanation problem. They have to explain why it's responsible use of taxpayers' money that money that people think is going to be safe for children, for good care for children, instead of making some rich people richer, or buying-in funds even more profitable. There is no point in using taxpayers' money. What we want is a simple, popular and sensible decision that every crown allocated to kindergartens should go to kindergartens, in both private and public kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1040	I noticed that the representative Lysbakken in connection with the election said that ‘all progress was on our side’. It becomes like a football coach who lost 4–0 in the previous game and this time only 3–1, and then he says that "we had the greatest progress". What I was going to challenge the representative is housing policy, which he said he would take back. In the election campaign I have recorded that a desire for a state property tax. This is contrary to what the Progress Party wants, which also wants the municipal council to be phased out. We no longer want Marianne from Bodø, whom I knew at the NRK, to choose between paying property taxes for her house – over NOK 20 000 – and whether she should have children's playground for her children. So my question is, is the state property tax that SV is addressing, is it in addition to or in place of the municipality, which is already there, and which we want to reduce?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1049	0–4: I had not expected a colleague from the Hordaland bench to take up Brann's last result. That's what I thought was profoundly unfair. [[muttering in the hall]] What SV wants is a transfer of taxes from work to property. All the calculations made — by the Ministry of Finance managed by Siv Jensen — show that our proposal for national property tax will reduce inequality in Norway. It is not possible today to achieve a fairer tax system, to do something about increasing inequality, but also to see how the housing market is managed in Norway — or not managed in Norway. Lack of taxation causes prices to explode, young businessmen to buy homes instead of start-ups, and it goes beyond those who have at least, in addition to the young people entering the housing markets, and in addition to those who have the lowest wages and the lowest capital initially.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1056	The representative has addressed the topic of fair distribution and balancing inequalities in his post, and it leads me into the zone management of the wolf. The management of the wolf zone means that a very small proportion of the population in Norway must take all the burden on them that a majority in the United Kingdom wants wolves in Norway. The wolf policy pursued today is the basis for excessive uncertainty in wolf-sucking areas, which is the basis for reduced biodiversity and loss of rights related to industries, outdoors and hunting. And then my question to the Lightbox is, Does the Lightbox mean that such a distribution of the burden of having the wolf is fair?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1061	I look forward to working with the representative of Enger Mehl and the Central Party in a lot of cases. It's probably going to be like this in Stortinge in this period that just predators are one of the areas where our two parties have different policies. We need to find a way for good rural and agricultural policy and co-exist with responsible management of our predators. I believe that what the Center Party is in favour of, i.e. that in practice Norway will not take any responsibility for taking care of the wolf at all, is wrong, it will send the wrong signal out into the world. We are faced not only with a dramatic climate crisis but also with another environmental disaster related to biodiversity loss. The rich country of Norway must be able to take care of our diversity. It also involves predators. And then it's going to be managed in a way that makes it possible to run agriculture across the country and get to co-existence with a good and responsible management of predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1066	Congratulations to President Raja and to the representative Lysbakken with a good choice for SV. It strengthens the SV and the Left's common fight for climate. The representative Lightbakken has waged an aggressive campaign against the welfare innovators. The more paradoxical thing is that SV has promoted a number of proposals that express a distrust of the Norwegian public sector, in particular the municipalities, because SV wants a number of trust reforms, especially in the municipal sector, linked to both health, school and child protection. When the Lighthouse talks about they're going to rig the tax system and demand 22 billion. The question is: how are those who have the least to become the winners, and not the bureaucracy in which SV obviously does not trust?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1073	The bureaucracy has grown so much with the Advance Party in the government that it costs a lot of money to maintain it, that's quite right. But the tax increases SV are in favour of – which is thus combined with a redistribution that means that people with incomes of less than 600 000 will benefit from the positive – will enable us to expand our welfare and to develop tomorrow's jobs through an active government enterprise policy. This is needed if we are to have both increased value creation and keep small differences in Norwegian society. However, our main public sector reform does not cost a single penny, and it is a trust reform to get rid of today's over-management of public employees. It can really improve efficiency, but then we have to dry to trust those who work there. Moreover, after the scandal in all from child protection and care for the elderly to waste disposal in the past, I think that the term ‘welfare innovator’ is a brave concept to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1082	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1088	I have long been happy to say this in this situation: Honourable President! Let's teach ourselves seas and others that politics doesn't have to be just the art of the possible," said Václav Havel, it can also be the art of the impossible, namely the art of improving the sea and the world. We are living in a time of great change, major changes that require new thoughts, radical reforms and new ways of thinking politics. We see that society is changing more and more rapidly, and that also requires us to raise the principles and values on which we have traditionally built policy. What's challenging us? Well, it is, first of all, an increasingly strong globalisation, which requires us to find policy solutions across borders, and the political universe is growing. The second major challenge is man-made climate change, which requires us to find radical new solutions to develop policies. The third major challenge is the technology around us, which is constantly changing, but which also gives us enormous opportunities to both create more well-being, empower each person and ensure that we get knowledge and innovation in our own nation. The last major challenge is to renew the welfare state and make it sustainable also in view of future challenges. The liberal starting point for all policy-making is today's freedom struggles, that everyone should have the freedom to create good lives, seas if we are different and have different starting points. Policy aims at empowering people to be able to make their own choices. We are in many important freedom struggles today. Fighting poverty, especially against child poverty, is an important freedom fight in Norway today. It's about all the kids who grow up with bad advice, and they lose faith in their own abilities, or adults who don't experience a meaningful job and don't feel like they're part of a community. Here is always better possible, here we can raise the important challenges. The second big freedom fight is the one we have through school, kindergarten and SFO. Here we know that the only thing that works is smart, good kindergarten teachers and smart, good teachers who can do their thing, and who can be about lifting up the kids who really need to be lifted. Schools have always been the most important thing for social cohesion, school has always been the most important thing in every freedom struggle, because it is about lifting and giving each one an opportunity to create their own lives. Then it's not the number of adults around you that's important, no, it's the number of teachers around you – the number that actually have professional competence and can fulfill the professional promise that's needed. A few days ago, we learned that two thirds of all special education in Norwegian school is conducted by people with no competence in special education. That's the big challenge in Norwegian school, it's the great injustice many people experience, it's the important freedom fight to fight – to make sure we get good professionals to do it. It's not that they don't have adults with them, but it's that they don't have teachers with them. Better is always possible here. The next important freedom struggle for future generations is the fight for our environment and the climate on the globe. At least here's better always possible. Here we have to make sure that markets for zero-emission solutions are created, we have to make sure that the state stops financing the industries that belong to the past, and start facilitating and creating capital for the renewable industries that belong to the future. Here we need a major change in society, and we need to be courageous and look at how we're going to use new policies to bring about those changes in the future. The next important freedom struggle is to cheer on all those who have an idea in themselves for opportunities to create jobs for themselves and for others. It is all the small entrepreneurs, all those who innovate and create new jobs – whether it is a clothing store or whether it is a plumbing company, or whether it is a high-tech company or something that might become a major Norwegian industry. They must no longer be met with red tape and employers’ contributions from the first employees. We need to invest even more in research on which they can build to create new jobs, and we need to ensure that public tenders facilitate innovation and more innovation in Norway. If we release all these forces, we will be able to create the new Norway with the new jobs and the new opportunities. We have a lot of creative power in the Norwegian people that we haven't got triggered like we do today. It has to be much easier to create jobs, much easier to pursue his idea and pursue his dream of creating his job seams. Better here is always possible. The left will always fight for those sitting at the bottom of the table. We will fight the struggle for freedom for the poor children, we will fight the struggle for freedom for all those who need extra help and support through the school in order to have the opportunity to exploit the potential of just themselves. That's why the fight for the environment and the climate is important, because it's about the freedom of future generations, the freedom to let go of extreme weather, the freedom to breathe in clean air, go in pure nature and not experience that we've taken the lives of the species that we've been given the opportunity to live with on the globe. For the Left, the struggle for Knowledge Norway will be important because it is a struggle to distribute power. Knowledge is power – the power to control itself, the power to pursue its own idea, the power to be with and influence society around it, the power to have the ability to be with and express its opinions. That's why school is an important freedom struggle, so school is so important for social cohesion, so knowledge-rich teachers are the most important input we can have to actually succeed in that freedom struggle. Therefore, it is important to raise research, because any society that bases its existence on knowledge, research and all the opportunities that lie in cultivating knowledge and research in the future will be a society that succeeds in the future. We have to be a society where it's easier to create jobs, easier to pursue ideas, and where you feel that if you're involved in creating something, you get a knock on your shoulder from society, not a suspicion that you're a profiter, or a suspicion that you're really just doing this for the sake of money. That's how the Left will act as a liberal party in this period. These are the most important fights we're going into any cooperation with, these are the freedom struggles, these are the liberal fights that Norwegian society needs that some people are actually fighting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1113	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1118	The representative, Skei Grande, spoke in his article about fighting for peace. We in the Workers' Party are occupied with the freedom of workers, freedom through security, because we believe that safe workers are more daring. For four years, the Left has been a very keen supporter of this government in the field of employment policy and would probably also like to see the government go even further on some issues, for example: in the liberalisation and weakening of labour protection laws. When the Left now in four new years gives its support to the Right and the Progress Party, and perhaps even goes into government, there are many workers who are concerned about freedom and security. Can the Left Leader clarify what arrangements in the labour market stand for falling during this period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1125	We made some important changes to the Working Environment Act at the beginning of the previous period. We stand for them. Nothing of the Workers' Party said it was going to lead to Norwegian working life, we have seen results of the changes that we have actually made. But the left's involvement in the labour market is not just about those inside; it's also about those outside. It's about the immigrant women in my part of town who struggle to get into work because they don't have the network that many others have. It is about making it easier for all those who have been out of work for longer periods of time to get the opportunity to get into work. That's exactly why we did the decorations that we did, and those decorations didn't get the consequences that the Labour Party comes with here, but I'm absolutely sure that when these get to work for a while, we're going to see that this makes it easier for people to get into the labour market. This fight is not just about those who are outside; it is also about those who are outside having the opportunity to come in.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1130	It's no secret that the left has a sometimes strenuous relationship with the trade movement, and I think it's going both ways, especially for the trade unions who have read the party program to the left. There we can read that the Left will cut sick pay, introduce national minimum wages, liberalise and weaken the work environment law even more and liquidate the state contribution to the AFP scheme – to name something. All of this is a targeted attack on the Norwegian working life model. I ask again, which of these arrangements is most important for the Left and the representative Skei Grande to do something about and get an impact on the government party over the course of these four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1137	We don't have a hard relationship with any trade unions; there are a lot of trade unions run by the Left People. I could say that the LO has a somewhat strenuous relationship with the Left, but it has more to do with the Left's position in this room, and that we prevented the Workers' Party from gaining power than it has to do with our view of the Working Environment Act. We make sure to fight for those who are outside, we fight for the rights of those who do not have rights. Today it is such that is a small shop in Kristiansand and operates clothing store with women's clothes, one does not have the same rights as if one is an employee. We want there to be much greater rights for all those who create jobs, that they should also be entitled to sick pay, that they should also have opportunities to have the social network that everyone else has. The left has always fought for those who are outside the systems, and then sometimes we have to be able to reverse the system within, in order for more people to have opportunity, and not raise the wall between those inside and those outside, which the Workers' Party has traditionally stood for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1144	The representative Skei Grande said in his post that ‘here is better always possible’ – it was a very good ‘slogan’. In the setting of the long-term defence plan, the Centre Party, together with others, proposed Left, that Andøya Air Station should be maintained as the base for maritime surveillance aircraft, and that the Army at Bardufoss should keep its helicopter. I was also very clear on both of these matters. Then it is interesting, when the Left no is allegedly in talks/negotiations with the government party and keeps its fate a little in its hands a day, to ask: Will the Left give priority to maintaining the Andeya air station and helicopter to the Army on Bardufoss in its negotiations with the Right and the Advance Party, or is it here ‘better not possible’ in defence policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1151	Now Liv Signe Navarsete found the point where the Left and Center parties agree, and it's fine. I wish that more people would agree with us in this room in such important matters, and in matters where I think we have quite good facts at hand. That means we haven't given up on anything in any negotiations on this, and we still believe that we have pretty good facts on our hands. I am quite excited about the message that comes on Friday. I am sorry, on behalf of our two parties, that the Workers' Party did not use the opportunity in the previous period to agree to the proposal that the Left laid on the table. I'm really glad the Center Party chose to do that. We're still on the verge of having a land power that takes care of this country, and then we need to invest money in a sensible way and not spend money in a very wrong way, as we're talking about in Andeya, especially when we see that it's being put up for investments that we're not close to getting anything back for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1156	The next replicator is Nicholas Wilkinson. Since citizenship has been different in the past, I am somewhat uncertain about how the representative prefers the name to be pronounced, but the representative can be clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1161	Thank you, President. Wilkinson's fine. Differences in Norway are increasing. And as the left says, everything starts at school. If we are to ensure equal opportunities for all children, we must ensure a school that provides good education for all children. In the last four years, the Left has been in charge of Norway. We were promised better educated teachers, because it was the most important thing for more learning. Fasit after four years is 40 pst. increase in the proportion of unskilled teachers in Norwegian classrooms. For the whole of 4 pst. of our school hours it is now taught by unskilled teachers. There is no guarantee of knowledge. So we've spent a lot of oil money. The children have been deprived of school fruit, and the teachers have been denied the resource standard. Everything was with the argument that it should be included and give several good teachers in Norwegian classrooms. Nevertheless, the Left and the Government have not fulfilled. What will the Left do to stop the development they are co-responsible for, where we've got more unskilled teachers in Norwegian classrooms?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1172	We're going to continue to do what we've done, that's triple further education for teachers. This will lead some teachers to leave the classroom for a period of time to get the professional supplement, but they come back again more inspired, as better teachers and with better professional background. I have to say that I am a little frightened that SV is now throwing itself into defeating all the reforms that we know about research works – to make professional demands, to make sure that we get better continuing education, to make sure that the teachers who teach can do the subjects in which they teach. This is a huge lift for the school. We have to keep doing this for a lot of periods we have to be able to get to the goal. But lowering the demands, throwing on populist solutions with adult norms instead of teacher norms, I think it's really scary for school. All research shows that this is not the right way to go. Several unskilled, fewer special teachers working with those with special challenges are not the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1180	I've tried to find a point where the Left and Christian People's Party also had some unity and something in common, and it wasn't that hard. We have a joint inheritance from Bondevik II on state jobs, which we also followed up on time in the previous enlargement period. I would also like to congratulate the Left on the fact that the government shared one saying with them, simply the relocation of state jobs. But it was sometimes perceived as a premium because one was involved in changes in what was the municipality's income system. But all of this is history. The relocation of state jobs and the use of competences across the entire kingdom are good district policies, and so is it smart, because one achieves that one gets the lack of thinking because one sees things differently in state budgets and one sees things differently in different parts of the country. So the grips that the government and the left did, don't become a skipper. Here I also think we can quote Canada's prime minister: Better is possible. The Christian People's Party wants to be part of it. Does the Left receive the call?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1189	Yes! It's amazing if the Christian People's Party wants to be involved in the relocation of workplaces. I am very sorry that they were not on that package the last time – so if they want to join us now! For me, this is about spreading power in a society. It's about recruiting from different environments to exercise power, which state power is actually. It is about the belief that different communities with different knowledge will be built around Norway. For us, this has been an important and demanding matter. So if the Christian People's Party wants to be part of this next period, it's really fun!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1194	I am very pleased to cooperate for the next four years with the Left and other parties that have realised the seriousness of climate change. I would like to call it a struggle for freedom – that is a good concept. Then I might think that the representative Skei Grande was a little vague in what measures are most important to the Left to ensure that we cut emissions in Norway, in addition to the tax policy. I think it is very important for predictability in business that one also says clearly from where to go, and what other measures they can expect. One area in which Norway contributes to a lot of emissions, in concrete terms also in extraction, is on the base. I would like to ask the representative Skei Grande if I can expect support from the Left in stopping new search warrants on the Norwegian pedestal in the coming period. In practice, it means cancelling the 24th concession round and the allocations that will then be made that have not yet been granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1203	The Greens and the Greens have understood a lot about climate and environmental policy together. Climate and environmental policies would have been easier if only the two of us were to cooperate. But the dynamics in this room are that you have to be able to count to 85. That's all you have to know if you're going to get anything. Then you have to form a wider majority. We need to work together – not just the Left and the Greens, but we need to work together to get a majority in this Chamber. I didn't get all the decisions of the Left, but the Left does not want the 24th concession round. We have to go into negotiations to try to draw all the policies in a greener direction. We got that all the time in the last period – we got things that other party leaders in this room did to me in TV debates if I were to get to, but that we actually got. We were given protection to Lofoten and Vesteråln, we were provided with electrified parts of the base. There are very many important, large-scale measures that were taken in the last period that we are going to follow up, and, together with the Greens, the Greens, in that they also support those measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1210	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1215	The King started yesterday's throne speech by pointing out that Norway is a country with great potential, and that we are well equipped to meet the challenges we face. The Christian People's Party could no longer be united. Norway is not just a good country to live in, Norway is a great country to live in for most people. But we must not forget that we have a special responsibility for those outside. And it's important that Norway doesn't become a country that has enough of its own – that we raise a perspective beyond me and my own and our own borders. The two major challenges on our globe right now are the fight against poverty and against the man-made climate change. These two main challenges must also be a major task for Norway. In Norway, there are especially two things that are difficult to talk about: it is the EU, and it is God. In both cases people immediately think that either is one for or is one against. In any case, I am safe in the end. My prediction is that during this great period, the discussion of faith and vision of life will become more topical and more challenging to us politicians than he has been in many decades. The Christian People's Party believes that the best answer is to strengthen our roots. For what is it that has nourished the emergence of central values such as equivalency, human dignity, volunteering, and love for neighbor? Here Christianity has had a crucial significance. That heritage must not be hidden, but must be brought up with pride. And this does not just apply to Christianity. Those who want to vacuum the public space for life's views and religions, underlie important facts, such as that understanding is created by meeting, and that respect comes from dialogue. We politicians must dare to talk about faith and religion in a deeper way than we do today. Check with France, where the so-called neutrality is free to play. As a result, many French people no longer know what to tolerate – they are not challenged by other ways of life in public space. Many seem to forget a simple fact: everyone has a view of life. None of us who live in this society are life-seeking neutrals. I thought we should listen to Ayesha Wolasmal, who said in the debate on religious services last year: ‘Those like me can get an exemption, but I rejoiced to serve as a school god. I thought it was so nice, because it was the only Christmas celebration that was included in." Let me briefly summarise: the absence of faith and religion is not neutrality. This autumn we have been able to follow between other siblings Pablo and Elina, Martin and Markus, Linnea and Martine, Sem and Lara in the series «Sibling» on TV 2. The series shows us that a diverse society makes us richer, and that it is by showing vulnerability and by caring for us that we are able to create a more real, warmer, and brighter society. The hunt for the perfect is none of us thought of. The perfect human being doesn't exist either. We have all our good and bad sides. This series clearly shows that a society where people get to be themselves is for the best of all. In the series we meet Shem, who has William's syndrome. He proudly told the viewers that he is quite unique because he has one of the rarest syndromes in the world. Who has faith in himself, but this believer does not push others down, he loves man around him. It's a good image and important value that our society needs. We also meet Elina and the brother Pablo, sitting in a wheelchair. She's asked what it's like to have a brother sitting in a wheelchair, when his brother quickly broke in and said, If you're wondering what it's like to have a little sister who can walk, it can be quite fun. And a little irritating. This story tells a lot, to my mind. We're concerned about what it's like for someone to have a brother who doesn't meet the requirements of being so-called normal. But the so-called normal is subordinate, and it doesn't exist. What matters is that we have someone to be happy about, someone to care about, and even someone we can argue with. There are just stories like this that make me part of the policy – because I want to design a policy for those who need it. The Christian People's Party is a Christian Democratic Center party that will facilitate a policy that includes all people and that allows those who have additional needs to be an active part of our society. This is not just about the sort society. It's also about setting up for those who are responsible for care. That is why the Christian People's Party today makes a proposal that can help improve care arrangements. When technology breaks new barriers, we have to stop and ask ourselves, what is a full life? When should help be given and when should help not be given? Who is to bet on, and who is not worth it? Technology must play with human dignity and not fight against it. For the Christian People's Party, this is not just a question of what is right to do, it's also a question of what communities we want. A society that overcomes such a deficiency becomes a more needy, less tolerant and less noisy society. That means the Christian People's Party is not an option for Norway. Today, the Christian People's Party will invite all its co-representatives from all parties to a good deal. We as sitting in this room, are largely a few that it is entirely decisive that Norway has a strong civil sector. We want the public to say, 'Yes, thank you!' That's why the Christian People's Party is now taking the initiative in a joint effort to ensure the ideal, non-profit-based actors. Despite many good decisions in this room, we are seeing a frightening trend: the ideal actors are constantly feeling that they are being squandered, whether by public authorities or by more commercial suppliers. Now, among other things, public responsibility to cover the historical pension costs, for the implementation of procurement laws, to ensure longer supply periods and the assessment of supply practices is a matter for the public. There is a need for political governance. The Christian People's Party will have with all parties that want growth for the non-profit sector and better governance of welfare actors. They're all welcome to work in Stortinget. The Christian People's Party will follow up this initiative. Christian People's Party is an opposition party. We are back to what has been our rule more than the exception in Norwegian policy, where minority governments have to seek varying support in Stortinget. In the future, the Christian People's Party will extend one hand to all parties who want constructive cooperation. For us, the color of the party logo, but what policies we can get through, will be decisive. The Christian People's Party shall use its position in Stortinget with responsibility and wisdom. We will vote in favour of the policy we are in favour of, and against, the policy we are against, but of course within a responsible economic framework. But in all of this, we have to take care of those who need it the most. For there is a need for politicians who dare to prioritize the most vulnerable, the children who grow up in poor families, and who never get to go on vacation or take part in football training, those who fight a daily fight against drugs, and those who fight bullying or assault. Yes, social commitment has gone like a yellow thread through the history of the Christian People's Party. Let there be no doubt: a policy that really takes the Christian values seriously becomes radical in many ways. Therefore, much of the Christian People's Party's policy is also that, whether it concerns social justice or administrative responsibility. It is the responsibility of the fight to smooth out differences, in the fight against global poverty, in solidarity with people on the run, in the fight against climate change. With this, I'm going to deal with our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1269	The representative Knut Arild Hareide has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1276	The representative started by saying that debates about the EU and God can become a bit categorical. I almost have to ask about both of them, and I think we'll start with God. The representative pointed out that he wanted to bring up our legacy with pride. I totally agree with Hareide. I said something of the same thing when I accepted the work of the Steelset selection, which is the most systematic review we've had of the truss and life vision field. It's about daring to stand for something. There's also something that makes integration easier, that a person talks about the rules and values of our players, whether it's Protestant duty, or it's the quote from Einar Gerhardsen that a person has to do his duty before demanding his right. There is also some reason why the Workers' Party has renewed its threat-and-life vision policy. But first of all, I want to hear how the representative Hareide has intended to do this in practice. How does he want to raise this legacy also in the political debates?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1283	I'll be so honest to say that when it comes to sitata from Gerhardsen, the Christian People's Party does not take them into the belief and life-sight policy. [[Laughter]] But we are clear that having faith and religion in our society are important roots in our country. Norway is changing. It's more often, it's more colorful, it's more multicultural and – I would say – it's better than ever, and then it's important that we take care of our roots. I believe young people who know their roots, and know their own identity, are safer on themselves, and they also meet the new and unknown in a safe and good way. It is the very principle of the Christian People's Party's policy. We want to provide knowledge, we want to provide skills, just to be able to meet the new and unknown in a safe and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1288	I thank you for that answer, and then I'm going to go to the EU. I don't know what the representative Hareide reads until he settles in the evening – or I don't know it – but one of the things I've read is the party program of the Christian People's Party. It seems to me to be able to read there that the Christian People's Party "will strengthen the labour-environment law as a protection law for workers". It's very nice to read, and the Labour Party thinks that we have to use the room for action within the EEA to avoid risking social dumping and unworthy conditions, because we see that there is something that can push us forward in parts of our working life. The Labour Party will make several proposals in this House relating to the Working Environment Act, eliminate the general need for temporary additions, reintroduce collective redress rights and, not least, strengthen the level of organisation. Even tomorrow, it will be possible for the Christian People's Party to support the proposal to limit the use of time-limited accommodation to ensure a safer working life. My question is simply whether Hareide is going to support the Workers' Party's proposal for a limited fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1296	It is nice that the representative Tajik has the Christian People's Party program on the night table. It doesn't have the representative Hareide. But I am concerned that we should have a good working life policy. I think the Christian People's Party was involved in changes in labour policy that – as the representative Skei Grande a few minutes ago told us very well – helped to ensure that the part that was outside the labour market could come in. We've been busy evaluating these changes, so let's see what increased the number of temporary additions resulted in. What was the result? We want to see just that evaluation before we conclude what we think is right to do in that area. Yes, it should be that the general rule is fixed addition, but can we get temporary additions that allow us to include more, we've been busy saying yes to it. Before we conclude, we will see what the evaluation says.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1301	The central party has with interest recorded the performance of the Christian People's Party in recent times. It is perceived that the Christian People's Party now wants to get through to its policy, after they have completed their formal cooperation with today's government parties. It would be clarifying if the representative could say something about what matters – seen in the light of a very weakened government – that one now wants to change or think otherwise. Let me give an example: the decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain on 8 June on the coercion of Eastfold and Akershus counties has, in many ways – as other decisions on the use of coercion to merge municipalities – strong reactions from the people concerned. In this respect, the representative Hareide has expressed strong scepticism for a state extending from Halden to the Hallingsharvet. Representatives from both the Centre Party and others have been presented today on the recasting of the decision to set up the Viken Mastodon. What will the Christian People's Party do in dealing with these proposals – the clear wishes of the states in this case for the conversion of the coercion or loyalty to the government's proposal and the decision of the then majority majority on 8 June?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1308	The recipe I want to give to the representative Nordlund is: The Christian People's Party meant before the election, I think after the election. We are in favour of a regional reform, and we record that the red-greens tried this – if we go back eight years in time – without being closed. I have also been honest to say that the regional reform that we have achieved, I think, can be even better, not least by getting more tasks from the state to the different regions. I did not think that a region from Hallingskarvet to Halden is optimal, and I also notice that it has been used as a ‘power’ – which I until now did not believe was a parliamentary expression – and that is what I think is too strong a word. I think we have to keep a regional reform, it's going to be the thinking of the Christian People's Party, and we want to cooperate with those parties that want to have a regional reform in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1313	We're facing some major challenges, several of them pointed out the representative Hareide. Climate change is already under way, and the Paris Agreement obliges Norway to cut emissions immediately. The decline in greenhouse gas emissions from Norway, on the other hand, has flattened out. The refugee crisis is far from over. On the contrary, more and more people are fleeing, now more than 65 million people, while Norway is receiving record numbers of refugees. Differences in power and wealth are increasing, and there are increasing numbers of poor children. I feel that the Christian People's Party is a party that takes these challenges seriously, but I also feel that the government is not involved in the necessary steps to cut emissions, help more refugees and combat child poverty. Therefore, I would like to ask the Christian People's Party: will they form alliances with the other parties in the opposition in order to increase child-responsiveness, set up an obliging plan for emissions and receive more people in flight from war and oppression?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1320	The Christian People's Party has entered into constructive cooperation to achieve better results. In the previous period, I felt that we had just got to the climate. We cooperated well with the Right, the Advance Party and the Left to achieve a more ambitious and better climate policy than we had under the red-green. But I also want to say: it should just be missing, because the climate noise gets more threatening and more serious for every day that goes. It also means that we can't be content with what we've been doing in the last four years. We are forced to be more ambitious in the future. On the quota refugee side, I experienced a significant increase. In cooperation with the red-green parties we got to receive more quota refugees. Similarly, I would be very clear that the Christian People's Party would like constructive cooperation, within a responsible framework, with the parties on the Stortinget who want it. It's been our line for the last four years, and it's also going to be our line for the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1327	The representative Hareide invited praiseworthy to a good deal for ideal actors. Left has a lot of historical goods in common with the Christian People's Party there. We know that in drug care in Norway, the ideal actors are very large and important, both for capacity and for quality. But then we also face some challenges related to the ideal actors. The National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease is historically a patient organisation. They have a membership income of about 8 million. kr, but today traded for almost 1 billion. NOK 882 million. kr – and operates, among others hospitals. As a patient organisation, they receive grants from the state. They get profit from Norwegian Typing. They receive VAT compensation and tax exemptions. They compete in a way with both public and private actors. This is going to be a challenge. So how are we going to use the ideals? Are we going to use them for innovation, are we going to push the public, or are we going to fight the private actors? What is the Christian People's Party invitation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1336	What we see is that the ideal actors actually experience a skewer from two sides. The one edge is clearly the private, commercial, which has other framework conditions, which have not taken on pension costs and obligations, as they would have to do to be part of the public supply in the 1970s and 1980s. So they also feel like they're being squandered from a public system, from health care agencies, who want everything into their structure, and where ideal actors don't fit into that structure. It is clear that we need to have a framework that is good against competition – equal competition. Today, the ideals have a disadvantage because they have taken on commitments. I have experienced that this has been a blind zone both under red-green control and under blue-blue control. That is why we must address this. This is an important part of our legacy, which we have to take care of, and it provides very good services to the users.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1343	My question is not about God, but about something that I think God is very concerned about, namely ethics. There, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party sometimes have a common and slightly different approach to politics than I feel that other parties are focusing on. Climate policy can be understood from a climate debt perspective, which Norway has. We feel very good in Norway and can be happy about it. But that may oblige us to do even more for those who are not well off because of the climate crisis. The same applies to loss of species diversity, where Norway also has more opportunities to do more than many other countries. We consume a lot more than many other countries. So my question is what the Christian People's Party thinks the green shift is really about. Some think that it's just a technological shift, a shift in how we solve problems concretely. Does the Christian People's Party think that it can also be a cultural change, a shift in how we relate to the community, which we are good at defending in Norway, but which we must expand? [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1352	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1357	I want to answer: so absolute. I think the green shift is about the way we think about what values we have, how we're going to take care of them, and how we're going to give them to future generations in a good way. So I think what this debate has also shown is that it is important to get good financial arrangements. The parliamentary leader of the Progress Party said that he bought an electric car because it pays off. I mean it's worth acting environmentally friendly. So the Christian People's Party is busy seeing that there are some unique values we're going to keep. But we also need to ensure good systems to help people make choices that are environmentally friendly. That seems to me to be a special responsibility for us politicians. I feel that people, not least in this election, have pointed out that climate change is an important value issue for them. Then it is important that we, as politicians, can help people to take the good values of their daily lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1364	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1370	In the languages of the throne, the king said that the government “will work for a society that is sustainable economically, socially and environmentally” and will hand it over to our children in an even better constitution. It is also the Environment Party of the Greens' project. With climate change, sea pollution and the sixth mass extinction of species, our time is not just exciting for us. Our choices are crucial to the possibilities, freedom and well-being of those who come after us, in a way that no previous generations have experienced. But the ideologies that many of today's parties and government are contemplating were formulated at a time when one took for granted that the globe had infinite resources. It has emerged from political and economic systems that do not protect the general public that we share. For the green movement, justice is, and therefore solidarity, which extends across national borders and generations – also across species. Nature's tolerance limits must be as much a framework for policy as the territorial borders are. It has not been realised by the government, and unfortunately it will not achieve environmental sustainability either. The green shift is not just a technological revolution. It's a cultural shift in the size of the industrial revolution. It's urgent to replace fossil energy. But we're going to do more. We're going to go from eradicating species to using Earth's land smarter, from putting wild animals into a circus process to cultivating the fascination of other species in their natural habitat. New technology allows us to get all the amazing nature right into the living room. Besides, we're going through a change in the entire economic system. With industrialization, the welfare of the people increased most. We were really good at making many vacuum cleaners fast and cheap, so that several people could afford them. But we got worse at exploiting the resources smartly, and the amount of waste exploded. At the same time, we became more, and personal freedom grew, without ensuring that we update rules and charging systems. A resource-efficient economy can give us as much well-being and opportunities as it does today. It doesn't necessarily mean thicker money book for everyone, but it can mean increased quality of life, fairer distribution and a wealth where we pay for good working conditions and sustainability where the goods are produced. In Oslo, we are in the process of doing such a thorough shift. Here we have a climate policy in line with the Paris agreement. Together with the Workers' Party and SV, we ensure that collective, bicycle and times become easier. It also benefits urban air and urban life, in a capital that grows, and where the scarcity of land is large. Through a huge effort on environmentally friendly transport and green urban development, Oslo has now been named Europe's environmental capital. These are not just technological changes. This changes the culture and our living environment and makes the city sustainable for our children and grandchildren – socially, economically and environmentally. To ensure that climate targets are met, the Oslo City Council has introduced a climate budget to show where to cut, how much and which sector in the municipality is responsible for implementing the cuts. The same thing has now also been introduced by the governing coalition in Bergen. Climate budgets must also be implemented nationally. Norway will not benefit from cutting emissions until we realise that the responsibility for climate action cannot lie primarily on a government council that barely has emissions in its sector, except perhaps some flights to the rest of the world. The responsibility must lie where it is to be followed, with binding climate budgets for each department – and they must report to the Stortinget. It works, it's climate control. To cut the emissions by 40 pst. in Norway by 2030 is a huge task. Climate researchers at CICERO have shown that achieving the zero emission target by the pace of government today will take 2050 years. We don't have that time. For this reason, the Greens today are promoting only one loose proposal during the debate on the throne, namely to ‘ask the government in the 2018 draft government budget to ensure that greenhouse gas emissions are reduced in line with the target of reducing them by 40 pst. by 2030, i.e. reduces Norway’s emissions by 1,6 million tonnes of CO2 in 2018.’;» After the elections, there has been a large room for action in Norwegian climate policy. The power has moved from government to a far greener magnification. The Greens therefore believe that all parties should now sit down at the beginning of the period and aim to agree on a new climate settlement that is in line with the Paris Agreement, a Paris settlement. Four years ago, Rasmus Hansson stood here at the beginning of the first growing period of the Greens, and he presented two proposals: to withdraw the oil fund from the coal and to establish a renewable mandate for the fund. The first was Norwegian policy in a few months. The second was discussed, but still remains for Stortinget to adopt. This small effort to allow fund managers to invest in unlisted renewable energy infrastructure is overdue. It is recommended by a number of professionals – and for many of the same reasons that also makes other financial institutions, such as Storebrand, choose a sustainable investment strategy, i.e. economic arguments. The election campaign became a ‘game changer’ in the debate on Norwegian oil economy. More and more, it has become evident that climate policy needs to be seen in the context of oil policy. But the election campaign we've put behind us was also characterized by more of a demeaning kind, which I hope we'll see less in the future. Even the Prime Minister said at one point that Norway would stop if the Greens came to power. I wish the Prime Minister were sitting here now, and I think the Prime Minister was falling low. How we talk about each other affects debate columns, Facebook threads, Twitter messages and text messages. And the heat, hatred and threats against politicians are increasing – especially against ladies, especially against immigrant women. We have to take care of ourselves. Democracy is being restricted, and racism is growing. People, especially young people and those with a minority background, should not have to resist becoming politicians because they have to endure so much hoax and ridicule. One says about politicians that one can recognize them that they grow so thick skin on them that they can stand upright without a spine. Let's work because the kids who grow up today don't get it when they grow up. In Europe and the United States, confidence in political institutions is weakened. That's why I'm going to end up with two areas that I think will be extremely important in the future, and where the Greens are going to be extra active: First, trust in the authorities depends on the way we finance the community being experienced fairly. Today, value creation is carried out at huge levels in Norway without being taxed. Technology companies like Google and Facebook are particularly difficult to handle because what they produce is not physical goods and services, but digital, and they're in big growth. But they're not alone. Tax evasion and tax havens, economic secrecy and international tax planning have become very common in Europe. Norway has a separate responsibility to prevent tax evasion that distorts competition and braves democracies for income. The Greens think it is high time to update the tax system, including a special tax on technology companies like Facebook and Google. Secondly, trust in the political system depends on transparency. Despite what we like to believe, and despite the fact that Norway for a while was leading internationally, we are now clinging to our neighboring country in openness. Norway scores poorly on the Basel anti-whitewashing index, is the worst in the Nordic region in financial transparency, according to the Financial Secrecy Index, and has had a modest follow-up to the Open Government Partnership. The country-by-country reporting required by Norway is of poor quality and does not even need to have revised figures. Ecocrim is cut, and the Ethics Council for the Oil Fund is starving. Norway also lacks a publicly available register of who owns which companies, making it more difficult to prevent tax evasion, money laundering and fraud. Unlike what the Prime Minister seems to believe, Norway is not stopping MDG, as our neighbouring country Sweden has not stopped with our sister party in government. On the contrary, Sweden is now experiencing higher employment and value creation and less youth unemployment, while leading the world to cut emissions. I have faith in this assembly. Like the 94,788 voters who voted in favour of the Greens this year, I'm sure that we are going the smartest way into the future by respecting the Earth's tolerance limits and diversity and thinking about across countries and generations. Taking care of our basis of life is taking care of ourselves – and of the future. I take this up with me the proposal of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1416	The representative of Une Bastholm has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1423	Climate challenges are one of the greatest challenges of our time. With the Right and Advance Party, which is now becoming the locomotive of the new government and which will lead the country further, it is important – and necessary – to have a strong and clear climate opposition on the Stortinget. Could the representative, Bastholm, outline a few more ideas about where the opposition is now, from today on and forward, gathering in a majority of good climate solutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1430	It was a very good question, which I hope several parties sit down and think about at this time. I mean, as I was about to say, changing the mandate of the State pension fund abroad as it is – now they're changing from day to day, but about 8 000 billion. Norway has invested around the world without us realizing the climate impacts – it is very important that the Storting looks at. It'll have a big effect. Then we also have to be better at committing ourselves in terms of emissions nationally. I believe that what we are about climate budgets is one of the most important parties in the Storting should sit down and talk about. It is not only the emissions that are important, but the way they are managed and also the management of climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1439	For the right, the green shift is primarily about decoupling economic growth with increased emissions. I noticed that the Greens have a slightly different approach. They want to limit economic growth and reduce working time to 30 hours a week without giving people compensation. This isn't just an unsocial cut in the private well-being of ordinary people, but the math doesn't go up either. In the future, we need more hands in the health sector, while others need to contribute to green technology development, to work and to fund well-being. The Green Party's only solution for 30 hours of containment without cutting heavily on welfare services will be to tax people more of already reduced income. So my question is therefore whether the representative Bastholm can explain how much more tax a normal employee would have to pay for this calculation to go up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1446	I actually agree with the definition of green growth, on which the representative Tybring-Gjedde is involved. The problem is that the green shift will mean a lot more than turning the economic system into green growth, which means that we can continue to have a wealth that is as high and maybe even able to grow even if we cut emissions. It's completely possible, it's just being smarter in the use of resources and technology. So the question is, do we have to do more? We'll have to. Even the waste industry says we need less waste, and many actors and economists say that we have to look at our consumption. Working hours are something that the Greens want to look at through a reform. It must be done with the social partners. It's not an immediate measure. For example, the way you fund it is. by ensuring that reduced working time allows more people to share in the work. This can lead to more people being able to work longer as well, because very many people are unable, especially with the heavy health commitments, to work as long as we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1455	E18 Oslo-Asker, E16 Skaret – Hønefoss, E18 Langangen – Ruchtvedt, E39 Sandnes – Ålgård, E6 Ranheim – Åsen, Outer ring road in Kristiansand, Oslofjord link, E8 in Troms – this is just some of the many road projects that probably hadn't happened if the Environmental Party De Greens cut in 160 billion. kr in national road investments had become a reality. Although it may not look quite like this, I'm born in Sogn and Fjordane, one of the country's most beautiful states and a good example of a district where we need a good path. I've been a little bit in doubt about what I'm going to ask the Greens about, but I'm going to ask you this: Shall we ask people to ride if they've thought from Steinkjer to Dovre, or for example. from Bamble to Flekkefjord?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1464	Now it's tempting to answer my second dialect, which is Nordic. It could be a ‘battle’. [[Laughter]] What we in the Green Party are doing in our alternative green transport plan is re-prioritizing quite a lot in transport. That means that we have a lot of money that they don't have, for example. collective investment, for railway development throughout the country and electrification of the existing sections which have not yet been electrified. That also means that we have more to do, for example: urban environment packages, which strengthen urban and urban transport. So I believe that a green transport policy provides a much better and easier everyday life for most people, who are concerned about the Progress Party. And I'm also waiting a little bit for the Progress Party to discover that the future is not that everyone has to drive a car in kilometers after miles at the long distances.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1471	Unlike the previous replicator, I think we can work very well with the Greens in the period ahead, as we have done in the last period. But I want to point out one thing – especially the three largest parties – and use the opportunity to say that they might need to evaluate the election, why they went back so much on the last big shot. I think it's an important point to stress that the SV and the Environmental Party The Greens in the number of votes were almost as large as the Center Party, and you take Red in this, these three are far larger than the Center Party, which was declared an electoral winner. If the Environmental Party of Greens had crossed the barrier line, to which it was based in Gallup, the Storting and Norway would have experienced some sort of green Corbyn or Sanders effect. It had really set the stage with a group of maybe 20 environmental representatives. If we took them to the left too, it would have been almost 30 environmental representatives. The choice was dangerously close to such a result, and I hope that these signals from the voters will be noticed in the major traditional growth segments ahead. Now a question has to be asked: Does the representative Bastholm agree with such an analysis? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1484	I agree with the analysis – that the Green Party has landed below the barrier is bad for Stortinget. I also see that several of the parties that went forward have been concerned with raising the environment and climate. I also believe that the environment and climate became one of the main issues of an election campaign that otherwise really lacked the essentials. I think there are a lot of voters this year who have gone to the polls and had the environment and climate as their most important thing. The question for our part is why the Green Party did not get more of the voters. That's something we scratch in our head, and as all other parties do over their turnout. But I think we're going to do a lot in this big period with the people who've now come in, and I think it's important that we now look forward to it. For the Greens, we want to cooperate with all parties that will cooperate with us on climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1491	Cooperation is what we want, and there is no doubt that the major tasks in this four-year period and in the future are to achieve climate objectives and reach them in agreement with the EU. I think it's important to pull up and get a security of implementation. There is no contradiction between having a commitment with the EU and setting its own national targets. We also see that other countries have done so. We need to step up efforts to achieve the 2020 targets. Otherwise, I am glad that the representative also pointed out that Oslo was elected to become Europe's environmental capital. There has been a work for many years to get it done, not least to invest in public transport to get a more modern urban development, on new climate-friendly buildings – a lot has been done. It has also been pointed out that Oslo has its own climate budget, which is also innovation, and at the same time the City Council has reinforced its efforts by reducing emissions by 50 pst. by 2020. The question is whether you reach that goal. Then my question to the Green Party is: is it important to have ambitious targets that can also be achieved, or is it the most important thing to raise the level of ambition?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1501	The important thing is how much we actually manage to cut, and I think we and the left sometimes disagree on how we get there. That's okay. It should also be said that Oslo is fully on track to cut emissions according to its own objectives if only the Storting had forced the government to implement the Klemetsrüd plant, so that we could be on the route there. There's too much of the emissions in Oslo. The representative is in the EU. I do not know whether it is believed that I should comment on that part of the line, but the Greens believe that it is feasible to have that cooperation, and we should, because the EU is often ahead of Norway in climate policy. But there must be no resting-place to have binding emission targets in Norway and for climate budgets – which I have repeatedly pointed out that Oslo has introduced – which means that we actually reach them through climate policy management.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1508	Unlike the representatives Gulati and Bastholm, I only have a dialect, and I would like to congratulate the Greens on the fact that they have managed to recapture the landfill, and that the representative Bastholm drew the longest straw. I have learned that the environment is an important matter, and there is nothing wrong with it. On the contrary, I am really glad that there are more parties than just Christian People's Party who say here that there is more than just the material dimension of politics that should mean something. In the Christian People's Party and the Green Party we may have different dreams about life after death, but at least we share the dream of life after oil. If we're going to get there, and if we're going to do the green shift, we're going to have to have people with us. We are forced to have an environmental policy in which each individual is asked to take action in his everyday life if we are going to be able to get emissions cut, as we are required to do. I feel that when the representative talks about the green shift, that it's about culture and values, it's about something of it, but we're forced to have an environmental policy where we, as the populace, are also involved in saying that this is something that people should be involved in. Is this a problem that the Green Party sees?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1515	To the very highest degree. This is one of the most important things for us, and something that we really spend a lot of time on. The problem in climate policy is not that we do not have the solutions. The problem is that we have to bring the people with us, and we have to bring the Greatness of that policy development with us. Then it's a lot about communication, about how to talk about it. For example, in Oslo, we see that we can cut emissions while making better urban spaces, which are more inviting and more inclusive, which makes it safer for the elderly and children to travel in the streets because there is simply less friction in the streetscape. There's a lot of examples like this. Not least, I think a lot of Norwegians want to be involved and contribute to cutting emissions themselves. I also think that a grip is not talking so much about cutting emissions, not talking so much about agreements that are far away, about CO 2 molecules that no one can see, but talking about what values we actually stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1523	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1528	With the solemn opening of the Stortinget, we celebrate the democratic values on which Norway is built. That's the good reason. We have a lot to celebrate, but let us not forget that the democratic freedoms we take for granted were once rejected as being almost dangerous, that they were deflected from the pulpit of the Stortinge – a great deal that also saw itself as democratic and liberating – and that those who fought for the right to vote were persecuted and put into prison. This week is 200 years since Marcus Thrane was born. The Thrane headed for the first workers' unions here to land. He raised the requirement that the voting rights should also apply to housekeepers and small crews. Political freedom should apply not only to people at the top, but also to workers. For this democratic pioneer work, Thrane was sentenced to four years in prison. He made seven years. It was supposed to go 58 years before the claim won through. It was not until 1919 that everyone, including those on public aid for poor people, was finally given the right to vote. So it's only in two years that we can celebrate 100 years with the right to vote for everyone – women and men, poor and rich. As we in Red know, there is no plan for any official marking of this anniversary. Therefore, Red proposes that the Stortinget ask the Government to ensure that the 100th anniversary of the general voting rights is appropriately marked in 2019. The demand for an extension of the voting rights was put to death by the King in 1851, when King Oscar spoke at the opening of the 13th Grand Prix. Once we've opened that 162nd big thing, we should ask ourselves what we can learn from the story of Marcus Thrane. Today, the struggle for a vote is not worth it, but what the vote is worth. Even though the housekeeper's office is far from here, we have an EEA agreement that reminds us of a housekeeper's contract, and the right to vote loses value when the EEA agreement imposes a specific policy on us, regardless of which majority the Norwegian people have voted in elections. The population has never had their opinion that Norway has been reported as a carpenter in the EU. Red thinks it's high time we let the people's voice be heard on such an important question. That is why we will be working for a referendum on the EEA Agreement. In the fight for everyone's voting rights, there is also a fundamental distinction between the right and the left. While Thrane meant the right to freedom from domination, the power of the little great farmer defended the freedom of domination. There were two different views of freedom that collided, and ever since then this line of conflict has created a conflict between the left and the right of the policy. My ambition is that the core of Red's work on the Stortninget is here – to always stand on the side of small crews, to be an ally in their struggle for freedom from domination, whether it be for those who are temporarily employed and the goodwill of the boss, or for the weakest people on the housing market, or for people in other countries who are fighting hard to get the same self-determination and the same rights that we take for granted here in Norway. I think that's the most important lesson of the story of Marcus Thrane. Over 70000 voters raised Red in the Grand Council at the year's election. They did that primarily because we gave them a clear promise to fight the emergence of Difference Norway. But in the throne, the government said, ‘In Norway we have small differences.’ And they added: «The Government will continue to work to ensure that it does so.» Then I wonder where the government has been for the last decades. The richest have doubled their share of income in just 20 years. In 15 years, the number of billionaires is fivefold. At the same time, more and more children grow up in poor families. Are these slight differences? Should the government work to keep it that way? The answer is no, and here, Red fundamentally disagrees with the government parties. There are other countries with greater differences than Norway, but this does not mean that differences in Norway are small. They have become too big, and alongside the dangerous climate change, the emergence of Difference Norway is our biggest challenge as a society. So changing political majority has repeatedly had the opportunity to do something about this problem. Nevertheless, differences have only continued to increase, and this is not due to a lack of support in the population. Over time, two out of three people have said that it is a major task for politicians to reduce the financial differences, a main task for us in this room. For Red, at least it will be a main task to give this public opinion a clear voice on the Stortinget. In the throne, the government also says that they will work to ensure a sustainable welfare society. Then why does the government not do any of the world's things with the welfare profiters? Extensive welfare services require extensive tax will among people, and tax will weaken when people see their tax money disappear into hundreds of millions of dollars to private enrichment for the owners of commercial companies. A government that will ensure the sustainability of well-being must therefore ensure that the money allocated to kindergarten children and caregivers, just goes to kindergarten children and nursing elderly people. It may not be a public task to feed an entire industry of welfare professionals. The second forgot the threat to the sustainability of well-being – at least in the government's throne – are the agency staff. In parts of our country and in important industries, they are taking over production businesses, and that should worry us, because this is a development that concerns the very bearer of a serious working life, namely permanent employment and orderly conditions. Red will work so that a majority on the Stortinget takes back the sensible regulation we had of the manning industry that lasted from 1947 until 2000, when the Right, Labour and Advance Party bowed their necks to the bureaucrats in Brussels. As Red's representative, I would particularly like to work for a clear foreign policy opposition at Stortinget. The government says in the guise that NATO and relations with the United States remain the cornerstone of security policy. They show no evidence that Norway is pursuing an independent foreign policy. Even the election of Donald Trump as president doesn't seem to change anything. On the contrary, the government agrees to permanent US military bases in Norway. It's not just immodest. It is a violation of the 1949 Base Declaration that we do not allow bases for foreign powers in our territory as long as they are not under attack or under threat of attack. The government thus makes Norway more vulnerable to the international game between the major powers when accepting US military bases on Norwegian soil, while at the same time continuing to build up Norwegian defence capabilities. Red is not sure that the government has the Storting in its back in trying to get away from the base statement. Therefore, we propose that the Stortinget ask the government to ensure that the base statement is complied with, even in the case of so-called rotational training. The election campaign is over, but the fight is not over. Fortunately, the government parties are not unique in Norway. The battle for how much they are going to be carried out has begun. It starts here and now, and I can promise Red will give them battle. We're going to give the Advance Party and the Right Resistance for every square meter of the people's property they want to privatize, for every penny they're going to give in tax cuts to the richest, for every soldier they're going to send in war for NATO and Donald Trump. We've stopped these games before, and we're going to do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1570	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1575	Yeah, I'll take up Red's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1580	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1587	Early school effort has been highlighted as one of the themes of this debate. It's really about whether there'll be enough teachers to make sure that our kids, the youngest we have, learn to read, calculate and write well enough. The working party therefore wants to employ 3,000 more teachers in the Norwegian school. A number of parties have responded positively to the thinking that is at an early stage. The right-hand side says the same thing, but has not yet signaled any concrete action. The question to the representative of the Moxnes and the Red Party is therefore whether the party wants to join the team among the parties that will fight for 3,000 more teachers in the Norwegian school, to make sure that our kids learn to read, calculate and write.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1594	Yes, there is something that we in Red would like to be on. We also need a clear class division number that makes one get a maximum number of students per teacher in each class. It was a historical mistake when the Storting lifted that number in its time. In addition, we will ensure that more students opt for a professional course. There we have a huge job to do in the coming years, because many young people know what's going on in the world of work. They see that in many professions there is no longer a special future because of the wave of social dumping that is destroying entire industries — construction, cleaning, car care, transport. So here we have to dry, we believe in Red, to take care of workers in Norway because of the EU's free movement. We need national measures to stop social dumping, and I also want the Workers' Party to have a slightly more open view of the EU in the future and join us in the Red to stop social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1601	First, I would like to congratulate Red on the place on Stortinget. But economic growth, trade between countries and private initiative has brought over a billion people out of poverty. The market economy has given us a formidable growth in wealth with publicly funded health care and free schooling, to mention something. Our welfare is funded from below, by people and businesses who earn money, and to maintain our welfare level, we also need more private jobs that contribute to the state budget in the years to come, not fewer – as it may seem to be the case that Red is calling for. Red describes himself as a revolutionary party that will abolish our economic system. The tax burden shall be dramatically raised, profits reduced, and competition – which helps people to get better services – shall be eliminated. My question to Red is, what is the alternative to our economic system?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1609	The alternative to having an economy where the biggest decisions are made by people who are never in elections – taken by people who, by virtue of owning capital, have enormous power over society, climate and the environment – is that we allow democracy to apply to the most important economic decisions. The system the representative defends is a system in which the eight richest individuals in the world own as much as the poorest half of the world's population. It's in my and Red's view perverted economic divisions, and also a completely perverted concentration of social power on extremely few hands. So the option of this power concentration of the very few is to democratize society and say that the economy too is to be subject to the rule of the people, and to put an end to the minority rule of which the Right is the warm defenders.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1622	The representative of Moxnes went in the election campaign banging hard to attack what he calls welfare professionals. In reality, there are firefighters and entrepreneurs, often women, who work hard and offer good services that are highly sought after. People who are on a daily basis delivering vital services to the community do not deserve to be called welfare profitors with suction pipes in the state treasury. It may seem that the ideological goal of Moxnes is a society with only public providers and no competition – even if it leads to more expensive and poorer services – which, to me, sounds like communism. My simple question to the representative of Moxnes is whether he describes himself as a communist.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1629	Perhaps in a very good way – but what we are going to vote on and stand for is a policy that was central policy just 15 years ago. [[laughs in the hall]] The Bondevik I government thought it was totally unheard of that our common tax money, which people had worked hard for and paid hard for to the state, was going to build billions of wealth for commercial actors. The Bondevik I parties clearly said no to the commercials in the kindergarten sector. In Oslo, we have arranged for a deal that ensures great leeway for the private ideal kindergartens. We want to go with the Christian People's Party and others to secure the future of the ideal actors. They are primarily threatened by having difficult commercial groups, with huge economic muscles, which plunge into the markets, subduing, buying up and putting down private ideal offers. That's what's the problem, that's what's going to stop, and I hope that a majority of the Storing here can outrun the government, so that we get a better policy for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1636	I note that the representative of Moxnes does not think this is a very good layer. I would like to mention a nursery in my own municipality called Hannes Lekestue, who I had the pleasure of visiting in the election campaign. They invited all the parties, but there was no one from Red, MDG or SV who saw their cut to come. It is a kindergarten that has been nominated for Norway’s best kindergarten. In my home municipality, Stavanger, the private sector is better suited to all the indicators. And then at least I think that if they can deliver such good services to the people, and at the same time manage to make money, it's a pat on the shoulder they deserve – and maybe someone who should have been a little more curious about what they can do. This kindergarten expanded with one more department, and they would never have been able to do that if it wasn't legal with a small profit in the kindergarten sector. My question to Moxnes is whether he manages to see something positive at all by the fact that there are private kindergartens in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1645	That's why Red has made sure that we now conduct a policy in the country's largest municipality that ensures that the private ideal kindergartens are not subject to commercial ones. At all, it is not positive that the tax money allocated to the operation of kindergartens to provide children with the best possible offer in kindergartens disappears into hundreds of millions of dollars for private enrichment — even to the purchase fund in tax havens. There's nothing positive about that. We should really take on the fact that today the four large commercial groups own and run half of all the private kindergartens in Norway. It's about billions of concerts that get billions of tax dollars every year, and that have a total profit of 700 million. kr annually. I want to give this money to the children – instead of giving it to people who are already hungry. So it's a position that was shared by all of us here in the hall – except the Progress Party – just 15 years ago, and that should be the reality again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1654	I would also like to welcome Red to Stortinget. I think it's a good spice to have in the public debate. It's always good with spices, if it doesn't get too much. One thing I think Red contributes to is seeing things from new angles. If it's the wrong angle, it's also good that people see it from new angles. Then I also want to ask about this with private actors, because no one is cheering on the big groups. But many of us, at least we who are liberal, think it's kind of nice to cheer on those who do it a little bit different. And I really think Red should be the same. When I visited Jørgen Runrven's kindergarten, he told me that he has three rules in that kindergarten. One is that it's allowed to go on the roof. You're allowed to go outside the fence. And it's allowed to use case, knife and hammer. That's the three rules they have in that nursery. I think that such things also have to appeal to Red – something that is a little out of the ordinary, someone who makes a little rebellion against the system. Don't Red think that any of these innovators are thinking of something new that is acceptable to the public to learn from?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1665	Thank you for your welcome. The short cut here is to think that to get innovation in well-being one depends on having a commercial ownership at the top. We see that historically we have many fires that have started up, among other things. Kindergartens based on ideal motives – there was not enough public, because there has been too much work done on the Stortinget – and then built kindergartens from the bottom up with public support, with ideal motives for their business. What's happening now is these fires, which have been a lot of them, are being pushed out. Those who primarily run kindergartens for the best of their children, and to get new ideas and better solutions, lose their feet because they experience that capitalist, large billion-dollar concerts win the foothold, thanks to the prevailing policy. They also feel that they do not have enough framework conditions to continue their operation. So ringing around the private ideals is for us, but at the same time we will shut out the commercials from the operation of well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1672	I would also like to congratulate Red and Bears Moxnes on their place on the Stortinget, and on their impressive election. I followed Red's national meeting in ours, and there was a debate – it may have been a bit surprising – whether we should have cash support or not. What many mentioned during Red's national meeting was that removing cash support would be demanding for many poor families of children. There was an interesting debate to follow, and I thought that Red will cheer up for the debate you had at the national meeting. My challenge to Bears Moxnes is: does he see the paradox that if a eliminates cash support, it could hit some of the most vulnerable families in our country and have a bearing on poor families?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1679	It's an important debate, and it was also the argument for those who wanted to keep the scheme. I'm absolutely sure that if it gets removed without any alternative, it will make many people who have little, even poorer. Therefore, there is a need for a commitment to schemes, universal schemes, which strengthen the economy of families with children. We're also in order to raise the child's pension, and we're here to make sure that everyone can have kindergarten space at an affordable price, we want to escalate the payment to zero in the long term. We also want the SFO to become self-payment-free gradually, so that we allow everyone, including those with poor advice, to have access to important welfare goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1684	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1690	President, congratulations! I would also like to take the opportunity to congratulate all those who have had their first speech from the pulpit today. The government has managed Norway safely over a demanding period of time. We have had challenging economic times at home, and we have seen a more complex and challenging threat picture in the world around us – and it changes very quickly. Now we see points of light in the economy and falls in unemployment, but the security policy situation remains challenging. In Norway, we have a wise tradition of continuity in foreign and security policy. There is a broad consensus on the policy choices and on what they are based. At a time of increasing complexity and risk in the security policy challenges, there is just continuity and predictability that should be governing. This is not the time to experiment with the long lines of security policy. We see more military movement in our own neighbourhoods. There are many allies who are concerned about their own safety. We see that stability and cohesion in Europe are being challenged. Governments will contribute to — and protect — an international legal order that focuses on strong, pooling institutions. Cooperation within the UN, NATO and the EU and with other close allies and partners remains crucial. The government has also made clear and very conscious choices to strengthen and target cooperation with our main allies: the United States, Germany, the United Kingdom, France and the Netherlands, as well as the Nordic countries. Training and training in Norway for allies has been a central part of Norwegian security policy for several decades. It is precisely because we do not have permanent foreign bases in Norway that practice and training are so important. In order for the security guarantees to have content, those who will be able to assist us must also train and practice in winter to know Norwegian conditions. Red is, of course, against Norwegian NATO membership. That's a position Red must have. But what we are now doing with more allied practice and training in Norway is based on the fact that the Stortinge took a stand on it in connection with the long-term plan – unanimously took a stand on it – and not least that we are saying that we should have more exercise and training with Norwegian forces, not only in Norwegian training centres. One of the most important things we can do is to strengthen our own defenses. We have done so through the budgets and the long-term plan. We practice and sail more, we have more presence in the north, and we keep building up our defenses. I would also like to stress that even if we do all of this, it takes time to reverse a negative development that has been in almost 25 years, through alternating governments. This means that for both Norway and all other countries that have had this decline, it takes time to put new capacities in place, to increase the level of practice and training, to recruit new staff and, above all, to provide sustainability in both the economy and staff. It's a work we're doing well. The trend has turned around, the arrows point the right way, and we see good results from the things we've done to strengthen the operational capability. An example from this year is that some of the money we have now spent on maintenance, spare parts and building up the emergency storage facility is used for “Training maintenance”. It has been completed in three stages – the last stage is now under way. It is in particular the Maritime Defense – but especially the Army and Home Protection this year – that has been part of this exercise. More than 5,500 different objects are now prepared and ready-to-use. There are things that have been in stock for years, unused or in a state of disrepair. Some of the things that were particularly funny to notice when I was visiting the exercise in two rounds, the enormous enthusiasm is especially in those who may not get so much attention elsewhere, but who are absolutely crucial to the operational ability of the defense: technicians, mechanics, logisticians. They have done an amazing job in getting the equipment ready. By building this fundamental wall that is so crucial, and increasing manning and activity, we can also facilitate reduced clairvoyance times. This is to follow the long-term plan laid down by the government, to which the Storting agreed. What happens out there also affects us at home. For this reason, Norway has emphasised — and will continue to do — the importance of contributing to international operations and contributing to NATO’s strength structure. Norwegian soldiers get considerable and well-deserved praise for the effort they make out. I will close my post by sending a greeting to all the soldiers who are on duty both at home and outside on behalf of Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1713	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1718	The Minister of Defence stated that we have a tradition of continuity in defence and security policy, and that in these troubled times there is no time for experimentation. Norwegian basic policy has been in place for many years. It is based on the declaration of the Second Government of Einar Gerhardsen, when Norway became a member of NATO in 1949, and the statement, which came in response to Soviet concerns about NATO bases, stated that other countries should not be allowed to establish military bases in Norway as long as they are not under attack or under threat of attack. At the same time, it is in our interest to practice and train in Norway under Norwegian conditions, and that allies practice with Norwegian forces. There have been writings in newspapers such as Nordlys and the Class Fight in recent days on increased American training, among others. in Troms. The Minister of Defence has not commented on the statements. Can the Minister of Defence clarify the extent to which these plans are actually in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1725	We have commented on the statements from the Department of Defence, but we have not received any requests from the US authorities to change the device of the training done at the Værnes today. But it's always training American, British, French, Dutch and Swedish forces in different places in Norway, and the device we've chosen to do in the long-term plan is that, as the representative says, we should train and practice more with our forces. It increases defense, it increases interoperability, and it's important. We have been very clear in the discussion with the Storting that this rotational system is successful. We want to continue in 2018. Should it become relevant to change the device on it, the government will of course have to take a decision on it, and we will return to Stortinget in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1732	Then I want to take the opportunity to thank you for that answer, and I will not challenge the Council of State in any other way than that I perceive that it was a confirmation that the government does not intend to change the basic policy, and that the tradition we have of not being military bases for foreign forces in Norway will remain firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1737	Any change in the device of the exercise and exercise that is being done today will not be a change in the basic policy. It's precisely because we have the basic policy and the basic statement that we're so dependent on exercising and training with allied forces in Norway, because we don't have foreign bases on Norwegian soil in peacetime. The basic and basic policies that have been established have been interpreted by varying governments since 1949 and have been interpreted in the light of changed security policy context. It will continue to do so, but the Norwegian basic policy is a good framework for the exercise and training of foreign allied forces in Norway. And as late as 2006, when the U.S. pre-storage and reinforcement agreement was dealt with in Stortinget, and its extension, the Stortinget was unanimous in its view that it opened to extensive American practice and training in Norway, and that this was not contrary to basic policy. That is the principle that the government continues to follow. So there are a lot of other nations that also want to practice and train more in Norway, and we are happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1742	I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate both the President and the Minister of Defence on his new mandate. In his report from the Defence Chief's professional military council in the autumn of 2015, he clearly warns against land power cuts. His point was that the risk of land power reductions can be compensated to a small extent by NATO unless we station forces from other countries on Norwegian soil to daily. What he warned against, of course, was that Norway should not weaken our own defence too much, and that we broke with Norwegian basic politics. In the previous period, the Right consistently opposed the Central Party's proposal to strengthen the army and home security. I read on Thursday, October 5, that 400 U.S. Marines can be stationed on Setermoen in Troms. It should be about implementing the plan already in 2018, looking for housing, etc. Can the Council of States dispense with this information? If she can't: When will the government come to the Storting with information about that matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1751	First of all, I fully agree with what the head of defence wrote in the report of the trade union council not to weaken the defence or the country power, nor has the government done so. Rather, on the contrary, we build up the defence, we build the land force, and on Friday we come with the land power proposition to the Stortinget. That, I think, is a very good picture of how the need for innovation in land power has emerged from some changes that I think will be very positive for the development of land power. To the question of 400 soldiers, I answered that in the answer to the representative Sivertsen. We have not received any formal enquiries from the US authorities about this, but as always there are discussions at a lower military level if you want to train and practice Norwegian forces abroad or foreign forces in Norway. It's not the same as having received enquiries from the U.S. authorities, or making any decisions. This is going to be done by the government in exactly the same way as we have done in the case of Guards, if it were to become relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1758	I'm going to follow up the question of nuclear weapons. The main argument of the government not to wish Norway to join the international process of a ban is that this prohibition is contrary to Norwegian NATO obligations. I'm a little bit over that argument, because it's not like NATO has nuclear weapons. It is the individual NATO country that has nuclear weapons, and Norway is not responsible for the nuclear weapons of individual countries under international law. My question to the Minister of Defence is: Is there a legal obstacle, not a political obstacle, but a legal obstacle, as the government sees, so that Norway cannot join the current ban process? I just want to remind you that the Netherlands has been part of this, and that Italy is now running and investigating this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1765	First, I would like to remind you that this question really belongs to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but I would like to answer it anyway. Firstly, the process leading to this Treaty of Prohibition is provisionally signed by only 53 States, and only 3 have ratified it. 50 ratified are required for its entry into force. There are several central countries, including the United States and Japan. The Netherlands and Finland, who do not want to sign. Sweden and Switzerland have paused this issue until at least over the new year, and in common with all, they see that both the agreement and the treaty have weaknesses. But they are also afraid that it may weaken the Non-Proliferation Agreement, which is the framework within which it is important to work, within which the nuclear powers actually participate, and where disarmament can take place. The answer to the question related to NATO is that NATO has nuclear weapons as part of its strategy. It's also part of the Atlantic Pact, which we're part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1774	After all, the country estate, which was mentioned, is waiting for us to come on Friday. But we already know something about it, for example: the order to stay within the When we see the content, we have to assess it, but in the left we're worried that it's too little to handle the investments that you need to have in the country power, and also to have an increase in the number of soldiers – whether it's in the Home Security or in the Army. Another part of this is a limitation of 38 000 men, which has probably also come out that you put on the Homeland Protection system. Is the Council of State at all willing to look at changes in the other parts of the defence budget, such as a completely unnecessary move – believes the Left – from Andeya, with surveillance planes, to Evenes, at a cost we do not see? Is the Council at all willing to look at such changes in order to release more funds for army, home security and land defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1782	Firstly, the government has remained within the decision taken by the Stortinget, namely that the investigation of land power should take place within the economic framework underpinned by the long-term plan. It's – to remind you – a strongly increased economic environment, which means that we're going to invest for 54 billion. In the next few years, the country's power has increased. We have investments for approx. 6 B.C.E. kr in property, construction and large operating budgets for the Army and the Home Office. It is within this increased space that the development of land power shall take place. So it's no big secret that I disagree with the representative Ola Elvestuen that there are costs you don't see related to the development of Evenes. This has been explained repeatedly by the government and I in Stortinget, and we are now also finishing a draft selection investigation on how the device on the base of Evenes should be. It's not going to be moved there until the new planes go there, so it's not today's Orion going to operate on Evenes, but it's future P-8 coming to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1789	I would also like to warmly congratulate the new President. It'll take us a while to water down the water to call a great-dabu president, but I'm doing it with the greatest joy. I think I'm waiting with the congratulations to the Minister of Defense to see if there can be new jobs at her in the coming time. But I'm now going to stick to the subject of the Council of State, and that is, among other things. Homeland Security. So we know that only in the Heimevert in the south, it was a function of manning, from 6,500 to 3,300. So stop a reduction and that one took equipment, until the land-use study was due, and he's coming in just a short time, according to the census. But my question is, Will there be as dramatic reductions in Homeland protection as what was presented? There was also an internal disagreement in the department about what the reductions actually meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1798	Firstly, I think it is important to be aware that the assessment of the size of the crew in each HV district is a professional-military assessment that the head of defence does in the usual way. Then there might be a change in the distributions. We also have, for example. in the field of land traffic management, pointing to some recruitment challenges in parts of the country that require us to do some things to ensure a more even distribution. That being said, we have also explained to the Grand Duchy that the area structure today is roughly at the level agreed in the long-term plan. This means that, to the extent that major changes occur, it is primarily because there are redistributions between the different districts. But it's a professional-military assessment. So I just want to stress that we've had a very positive development in Home Security in the last few years. The material filling rate has increased considerably, to approximately 80 pst. We're introducing new, modern handguns, protective equipment, uniforms and – not least – the big investment now, in field cars for the Home Guard for over 0.5 billion. kr. It is important for the operational capability of HV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1807	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1812	Throughout the time that the Workers' Party has existed, we have had one superior vision, that the whole people should be able to work. So we may never reach the point that it's going to apply to absolutely everyone, but it's not possible to have a lower ambition than this, because work gives people security, it gives mastery and self-esteem, it creates joy, it gives health, it gives competence, and not least it gives quality of life. If we are to finance the welfare of the future, we need more in work. If we're really going to be able to reduce the differences so that they happen, we're going to need more work. And if we're to be happy with integration and equality, we also need more work. For this reason, we have said for more than a hundred years that work for everyone must be the number one job. Unfortunately, we are far from there today. Today, three out of ten people are out of working life. Especially serious is the fact that the part in the job is searching, not least among young people. Among men between 20 and 24 years of age, employment has fallen. 70,000 young people are out of work, and it's serious. It is also a development that is largely peculiar to Norway. In the perspective message presented by the government itself in the spring, the various options for action are presented to finance welfare in the future. In what they call the job option, a permanent increase in the level of the workforce and employment will be called for. This is something we've done before. We were able to do it when the women seriously went out to work in the 1970s, and that is absolutely something we can do again. But nothing comes of itself. There is something that requires your current action. And here we separate ourselves from the Right and the Advance Party, among other things. know we believe in people. We make demands for people, but we also make demands for people when they need it. We also believe that one needs several policy tools to achieve the goal of working for all. Not least we need a broad strategy, with four arrows. Our solutions will follow these four tracks. We're going to deliver more suggestions on these areas in the future. Among other things, we need an increased commitment to competence. It means a reform of labour skills. That means an apprentice lift. It means timely effort for more people to complete their further training. Many of those who are out of work today are people who want to contribute, who want to stay in the labour market for a long time, but who need to improve their skills in order to get a proper foothold in the workplace. We have to help. The second is measures to increase inclusion. This includes: on wage increases, on tools, on accessibility – i.e. to lower the threshold in working life. Thirdly, it's about the working environment, that one with firm, safe jobs and equal value between the parties creates a working environment that's good to go to. Not least, we want to increase the level of social dumping and labour crime, because we see very serious conditions developing in parts of Norwegian working life. Fourthly, we want to remove obstacles to participation in the labour market. There are several examples here, but that means, for example: that we have to stop policies that stop people from working, such as: cash support and tax class 2. In addition, we need to do more to create more workspaces. We then need stable, good framework conditions, knowledge and competence, and we need an active industrial policy that strategically focuses on important industries. We're going to be constructive and critical, we're going to come up with things and suggestions, and we're going to invite other parties to work together. In fact, we are already making a proposal today to limit rentals, and we hope to get support for that proposal. Finally, the Christian People's Party has put forward a proposal for care money. That's what we're going to support. We see that the cut from the Right and the Advance Party have had too many consequences. We think there is a need to look at it again. We also want a new allowance period for the heaviest cases, i.e. one that does not have a maximum limit of five years, and we also do not want an 18-year age limit for mental retardation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1835	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1840	In every election fight, the Workers' Party says they're going to win the West, but it's starting to have the same credibility as when the Fire fan sings that we're going to win the series every year. It happens every season, but it usually fails every time. So does the Workers' Party's Western offensive. But what's new this time is to see the response from the Workers' Party. Instead of taking the seriousness into account, changing policies, distributing positions that can actually make the West important, the West is left with one single figure. I know that the representative Tajik, who is this one figure, will do a good job, but even hard-working politicians can't be anywhere. The Workers' Party has demonstrated with this that the Western offensive is and will be a campaign-jippo. What I'm asking is how the voters will believe in the Workers' Party at the next elections, at the next Western offensive, when they have now shown how little they really care about the continent.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1845	The representative Frölich doesn't have to worry about the Workers' Party's investment in the West. We're a party where it shouldn't be decisive to have a fractional leadership position to re-show in the public debate. It will also show over the next four years that several of our representatives will dominate both in this room and outside. Then I would like to remind the representative Frölich – humble and with all respect – that the government of which his party is a part is now weaker than before the election. It's maybe a little bit weird to go to the pulpit and have the approach that he would like to have. For the Labour Party, it is important in the future, both for the West and – not least – for the rest of the country, that we invest in work and building skills. We see that the industries that exist in the West have been important for the creation of value in Norway for many years, and I think they are an important part of the solution for the creation of value and jobs in the years to come. Our policy will also show that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1852	I would like to begin by congratulating the representative Tajik on her being on the Labour and Social Committee for the next four years. I fully agree with a lot of what Tajik mentions, that the most important thing is to get more people out of work, and that it is worrying that we have so many people in pre-employment who are out of work. But then I'm very happy that we have a government that has led a steady and decisive policy, which has led us through the oil crisis, and that we have managed to reduce unemployment month by month. There are several reasons why we have these good results of government policy: among other things, we said no to the Workers' Party's proposal to increase taxes by 15 billion. kr, and we have created a more flexible work environment law. However, the Labour Party also voted against another action that worked very well, namely the imposition of an activity obligation on young social workers. Now the government wants to expand it. Will the Workers' Party continue to oppose this, even if all experience shows that it works?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1859	I get to return the congratulations to Wiborg that he is likely to be the leader of the Labour and Social Committee when the Committee is formed. When it comes to his question of duty of activity related to social assistance, it is one such and has been such a long time that there is the possibility of demanding activity for those receiving social assistance. There was no need to make the kind of change in laws that they initiated during the previous period to secure it. What was necessary then, and which will also be necessary in the future, is to ensure that the municipalities actually have the finances to follow up on this in practice, and it is precisely the Right and Advance Party that have not been able to deliver properly. The working party's approach is that we should both make demands for people and have expectations for them, but also that we should set them up. This set-up part does not provide the Progress Part.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1866	In the class struggle on 4 October, Hadia Tajik said that the Labour Party must discuss the free movement of labour. She said that there is a need for a clear change in course, and that social democrats in Europe have not used their positions. And she said, ‘Instead of using it to consolidate social democratic thinking in the EEA and the EU, a framework has allowed for almost one to operate with the following slogans: Workers in all countries – compete! [[...]] It's not an ideology I'm putting behind." These are new signals from the Workers' Party that can – and I stress can – bring the Workers' Party closer to the Center Party for a working life that provides greater security of income. One of the litmus tests is if the Workers' Party wants to tighten up the legal use of a crew member. Will the Workers' Party now support the Centre Party in repealing the Working Environment Act § 14-12, second paragraph, on temporary hiring of workers? According to Hauglie State Council, it is not contrary to the EEA Agreement to repeal this paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1881	The working party absolutely wants one to tighten in front of the crew industry. We see that in some areas this has gone beyond an orderly working life. We also have an own proposal in connection with the debate on the persuasion, and we would like to discuss other types of measures that we can deal with in this area. I think it is important that we discuss how we can secure employees' rights within the EEA framework. I am, as the representative probably knows, very positive to the EEA, but I think we need to use the action room more. For example, this means that we should include the ILO core conventions into the Human Rights Act, so that they are given greater emphasis when there is a conflict between the basic employee characteristics that emerge there and the EEA legislation. Today they don't have the weight they should have in the Norwegian law that we think is right for employees' rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1888	It is important that many more people come to work, and I think the Workers' Party and SV can agree on many of the proposals mentioned by the representative Tajik in his post. But what we've seen from the government that's now sitting is that they've systematically hit the internal animal in terms of reducing the income of some of those who can't be at work, are miserable, for example. It has nothing to do with the taskbar, for example: poor parents have lost child allowances of perhaps thousands of dollars, or that there are now many thousands who have lost their living quarters. This just leads to more poverty, and people don't get a job out of it. At the same time, the government has been fluent in money that they have moved over to those who have the most among us, including the richest and freshest, among others. on the cash support, within which the representative was present. That is why SV has made a proposal today where we believe that we need to get a comprehensive picture of this, a big message about increasing inequalities in power and wealth. Will the Labour Party support this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1893	The short answer is yes. What this is about, is that we see that the differences are increasing, and that they have increased over a longer period of time. The ones that have the most, get more. The ones that have the least seem to get smaller, at least they don't get to share in the crop that some people get to share in. It weakens something of the finest in our country, that we're going to be a country with small differences and high levels of trust between people. So when Andersen's representative draws up this proposal, we in the Labour Party want to give our support. There is an absolute need to look closer to how and why the differences have increased, but not least that we can agree to make more proposals to counteract this increase in inequality in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1898	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1903	Norway is a good country to live in. Throughout generations, we have built together a welfare society that we can be proud of. In recent years, the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left have further developed the welfare society, and much has become better for many. Less are in health queues, and waiting times are shorter. In particular, priority has been given to patients who are struggling with drug abuse and mental disorders. It has to go on. The cycle of cancer packages is being extended to a continuous re-diagnosis. It creates greater safety for patients, more effective treatment courses and better follow-up. In school, the students learn more, the absence goes down, and more complete. Limit of absence and raising of continuing education deliver results. We are not in goal, and knowledge, school, research and higher education will remain central to the Right. Early efforts are important to enable each child to realise its potential. It is important to help that no children stop raising their hands, and that no children want to be invisible when school hours start. When the young hopeful are finished with the school, the working life awaits. One of the most important things that politicians can do is to help create new jobs. After the greatest oil price drop in a generation, the arrows are now pointing in the right direction. Freedom goes down, growth goes up, and new jobs are created. In the future, we need to contribute to the creation of more new jobs and businesses that can contribute to the state budget, in order to finance all good welfare measures in the state budget. We must continue to modernise, digitise and implement reforms that ensure the welfare, security and sustainability of the future. The choice we're facing is simple: change or confusion. The burden of proof lies not with us who want to reform, but with those who look back in meeting tomorrow's challenges and opportunities. Will is a renewable resource of which there is much in this room, which was reflected not least in the presentation of an impressive number of representatives at the beginning of the meeting. I think it is positive that the Stortinget is a living political workshop. At the same time, I have noticed that many of the parties are engaged in pursuing a responsible economic policy. It is absolutely necessary, but at the same time, there is reason to remember that the sum of everything we are for cannot be realized within the framework of a responsible economic policy. We're moving into an economic terrain where the action space becomes less than what we've become accustomed to. The ability to do good and real priorities becomes important, whether you're in position or you're going to be a credible opposition. Although Norway is doing a good job, it faces major challenges that need to be addressed. Long-term transition and modernisation of both the Norwegian economy and the public sector are necessary to safeguard the welfare of the future. The economy and society must become greener. By 2050 Norway shall be a low-emission society. On the way there, we will achieve ambitious goals in cooperation with the EU. Several children must be given opportunities, regardless of their social background. We have to make sure that no one goes out to date and that everyone has the necessary skills to meet the new world of work. Our security must be ensured through continued commitment to defence and preparedness. More people have to go to work. There is a need to reduce the number of young people out of work and to further combat the crime of working life. These are big problems that we have to solve together. In meeting these tasks, the project of the Right is to take care of Norway as the world’s best country to live in. We have a solid basis to build on when we're about to catch up with this magnification period. The voters have given the government, the Left and the Christian People's Party a new mandate. They have done so because they have seen the results of four years of willful and capable of conversion, reform and safe governance. I think the voters notice which parties are willing to take responsibility by making wide-ranging compromises when necessary, and which show the willingness to stand in that way. I think it would be unfortunate if a political culture developed in Norway that is more fragmented, less predictable and more American. It's not a development country that's earned. This is why the Right in Government will continue to invite the Stortinget to wide-ranging conciliation on important issues for Norway – to ensure what Norway we all know, and in which we are all so happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1932	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1937	I would like to begin by congratulating both the President and the representative of Astrup on the election of important positions and also the government, which has been re-elected, despite a weakened basis in Stortinget. The languages of the throne we heard yesterday could be the government's way of thanking them for their trust, describing what challenges Norway is facing, and how we can jointly solve them in the best possible way. Instead, there was an uproar of fine words without political content. The big challenges were not addressed. The share of people in work, which is now the lowest in northern Europe, was met with the declaration that ‘more people have to be at work’. The growing disparities were met with small differences in Norway, and the government will continue to have such differences, even though the government's policy net increases the differences. My question is whether the representative of Astrup recognises that major challenges, such as high oil money consumption, low employment and increasing inequalities, need policy instruments to be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1946	The disadvantage of writing the question before you have heard the post is that I answered the questions asked by the representative in my post. Yes, there are great challenges we're facing, and yes, we're going to meet them with politics. Otherwise, I must be allowed to congratulate Knutsen too. We still have none of us elected to sit on the Finance Committee, but there is a certain expectation – one might say – that we should be, so I congratulate the representative on the election to that committee in advance. We need to address the major challenges. This I believe was the main focus of the throne speech that was presented yesterday, and also my topic today. We must be a sustainable welfare society both economically and from an environmental point of view. In terms of oil money usage, the working party spent about as much oil money as we did in the previous period, and I would think it's going to continue in this period, regardless of what level it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1955	This is called the throne debate, and then it's probably the throne speech we're going to address, at least in part. But I would like to thank the representative, Mr Astrup, for the answer and look forward to good debates on this both in the committee and in this Chamber in the next session. We agree in this Chamber that small differences are a good thing for Norway. What we don't agree on is measures to keep the differences small and not let the differences between us increase. Increasing inequality is bad for trust between us. Of course, it's problematic for those who fall outside, but what's also important to look at is that it's problematic for them at the top. It's because the growth power of the economy that corporate owners and investors depend on, disappears when the differences get too big and the exports are reduced, as we can read about in today's business today. With a high degree of inequality, we can't rust Norway for the future. That is why my question to the representative of Astrup is whether, during this large-scale period, action will be taken against increased differences, other than party speeches, that we need more work to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1962	The government promoted a number of targeted measures against, for example: child poverty and appropriate measures to contribute to less inequality. We know that the greatest inequality in society is between those who are at work and those who are not at work. That's why the work of creating new jobs, helping to realize new ideas, making businesses grow, making people have a job to go to, is incredibly important. I feel that we have good answers both on how to help those people who need the help of society the most, and on how to create the new jobs, so that people have work to do. Unfortunately, there I feel that the Workers' Party has few answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1967	When you listen to the representative Astrup's call for new and good solutions, you can start to wonder when the representative will start to present them. When you think back to the election campaign and the Right slogan – ‘We believe in Norway’ – it is clear that you must have left the slogan for new and better solutions, because you refer to the speeches and suggestions that the government has made during the previous period, without making any new measures visible. I want to challenge the representative, who talked about reversal and about the Central Party in that context. If we were to assume that the Center Party was against all new developments and measures, it would be thought that the Center Party was against the development of the Internet. But then I would like to ask the representative, who at least in the past has been very much in order to create solutions for Norway as a whole, about the government – and the right in Stortinget – will be interested in strengthening broadband coverage in the country, precisely in order to create more jobs, which can then go to better well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1975	We are very concerned about good broadband coverage in the country. Interestingly, the representative points out that the centre party would probably be against the Internet. Well, I can't answer for that, but they were at least against Post in Store and many other important things that have meant too many in everyday life. We also know from the last period that they were opposed to the creation of New Roads, which is going to save the community for about 30 billion. kr and to have roads built faster and more efficiently than before. But broadband is also definitely important. We have chosen a model where the commercial developers largely take the bill. This has led to a double-digit billion investments every year in telecoms in Norway. That's good. In Sweden, they have chosen a model of government grants that have effectively retained the rate of investment, which has led them to invest much less per year than is done in Norway. Then we're going to make sure, in those areas where there's no commercial basis for it, that we continue to support it under broadband development there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1982	One of the most beautiful things about Norwegian society is the small differences and the high trust between people. It hasn't always been like that, and there's no law of nature that it's going to go on like that. I am therefore pleased that the government of the throne states that the differences in Norway should be small. We should be able to agree on that. We know that the key to small differences is a policy for a redistributive tax system, an organised working life and universal well-being. When you listen to the contributions of the representatives of the government parties, it is clear that one of the government's main efforts is to reduce taxes, despite the fact that we have less advice. This is now well-tested over the last four years, and we can conclude that it has not reduced the differences, rather on the contrary. Then the question is asked by the representative of Astrup: is it a political goal for the government to reduce differences in Norway, and if it is desirable, what proposals will the government put on the table to counteract the effects of lower taxes on wealth and tax cuts on the wealthiest, which will increase differences in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1989	Right is concerned about having a society with small differences and high trust. We have that in Norway today. We're still going to have that in the future. At the same time, we also need a policy that helps create jobs, so that people have a job to do. It is absolutely essential that we have a society with little differences and high trust. That is why we have tried to pursue a tax policy that helps to make the new jobs more attractive. In the situation we've been in, it's been right and necessary to prioritize it. We've had the biggest oil price drop in a generation. Now we see that the arrows point in the right direction. Growth is rising, and new jobs are being created.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1994	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e1999	Let me also congratulate the entire elected presidency. I look forward to good cooperation in the four years we now have ahead of us. It is a pleasure that the voters have given confidence to the Advance Party for four new years. I look forward to continuing to fight for the victims of violence, strengthen the police, strengthen the courts, build prisons and face the fight against the abuse of both humans and animals. In short, there will be even more FrP policy in the field of justice. But what have we achieved in the last four years, in good cooperation with our government partner Right and Left and Christian People's Party? Well, the list is long. We've got four years. received 1,883 more police officers adopted or expanded 545 prison sites in Norway, in addition to those we had received 242 prison places in the Netherlands Audio and video project in progress in the courts has been sent to a high-speed court in Oslo obtained forcibly by 30,000 non-residents, 10,000 of whom had committed criminal acts three new police helicopters, 16 new rescue helicopters, counter-terrorist centre in place, cyberterrorist centre, emergency centre in progress; removed the limitation period for killing and assault; have been re-enforced by criminal law; Sacrifice care offices in all police districts have had a police reform; increased punishment for violence in close relationships introduced animal police in three police districts more than double the appropriations allocated to children’s housing ensuring legal certainty through a new jury system; received Stine Sofie Sent to state budget set up a cold case group received local beggar ban built-in emergency network That's a long list. These are just some of the things that we've been getting over the last four years. But we're not on target. Firstly, it is a long canvas to fade to ensure the justice and security of Norwegian victims of violence. The community never managed, unfortunately, to protect Jeanette and her daughter. 45 times she had to flee from the ex-boyfriend and move to a new address. 45 times it was of little help that she had got a secret address and lived on so-called code 6. Unfortunately, we still have a system that does not take into account the reality of many Norwegian victims of violence today, a system that is too much based on the rights and interests of the attacker. There is little help with a violent alarm if you meet the attacker at the store or in a dark side street, or if the local police are on duty at 4:00 p.m. It does little to help the local waitress to leave the job to have dinner safe with the family after working hours. Imagine living every minute in uncertainty and uncertainty about when an unstable violent man will find you, break into your home, and surprise your child while it's asleep. Are you ready to press the alarm? How far away is the police? Will it be too late? Jeanette has not given up the fight for the rights of victims of violence and is an important voice for those who are not strong enough to speak for themselves. I therefore believe it is very important that we all do a better job in this area during the period we are now going into. We must put the rights of the victims before the rights of the criminals. It involves more severe penalties, reverse-violence alarms, bans on living in the vicinity of victims or relatives. These are all issues relating to the balances between the rights of the victim and the rights of the victim. All too often, the rights of criminals have thwarted the demands of the victims for security and upliftment. We have strengthened the rights of the victims by removing the limitation period for killing and assault, new victim care offices in all police districts and stricter penalties for family violence. There is still a huge amount left, and that is why I want to use this post today to address a problem and a problem that very many people are in the middle of every single day. The justice sector in 2017, as I mentioned, has 1,883 more police officers, and 545 more new prison sites have been adopted than we had in 2013. We've been jerking a lot in just four years. In the next four years, we have to continue the fight to make Norway even safer for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2083	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2088	Thank you to the representative, Leirstein, for a touching show-off. However, there is something that is not drawn out on this list of boasts that you have received in government, and it is about taxes. Leirstein's parliamentary leader was formerly in the pulpit today and said that this was a choice between tax havens and increasing taxes. My follow-up question is: To whom then? At least this does not apply to Arent Johannes Gåthe from Nesttun. He worked hard a long life, until the body couldn't do any more. Meanwhile, his employer paid for termination benefits. When the body said stop and Arent stood without a job, he discovered to his horror that the government had taxed the termination fee. Two out of three kroner paid by his employer went to Siv Jensen instead of to Arent. The pages of the Progress Party say that taxes are their heart issue. Why doesn't that beat the heart of the workers like Arent, but just for those who have the most from before?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2097	It was a bit of a funny line, all the time this wasn't my theme in the post at all. But of course you have to answer the question. It is true that when tax relief is provided widely, as the government parties and the supporting parties have done in the last four years, it will also benefit the wider population. Now I don't know the specific case that's being mentioned, but when we give tax relief, of course, it will result in a tax cut, a tax cut, and less money being paid into the community than you would have done with the Labour Party's policy, which is, therefore, going to increase the tax by 15 billion. kr. Media, and several others, have later shown that it will also affect those who have at least before, so the Workers' Party meets itself in the door with the rhetoric that it is alleged that we alone give tax relief to those who have the most from before. The working party ensures that tax increases are provided to those who already have at least one.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2104	It is interesting to listen to the representative Leirstein’s great enthusiasm for his – and the government’s – budget and initiatives in the area of police and justice. I have a look-up from Oppland Arbeiderblad 27 September this year, where the vice-leader of the Swedish Police Union, Finn Arne Hvalbye, indicates that the Inland police district has received 41 new positions. But only one of these positions is in operation, because the budget does not finance this. Is it then the police's description of the reality or is it the representative of the bigotry of Leirstein's description of the reality that is correct here?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2113	I think one should look for a long time for another branch in the state that has got more percentage increase in its budgets than the Norwegian police have had in the last four years. There has been a huge investment in Norwegian police in the budgets. One of the problems, which makes not all of this money necessarily go to a lot of positions everywhere, is that it's been a huge aftertaste. I remember – for many years before we took over power – how much police representatives were complaining about the situation in the police when it came to equipment, when it was about computer systems, and when it was about the number of posts. But the speech of the figures is very clear: we have 1,883 more employees in the Norwegian police now than when the Right-Fremskrit party government joined four years ago. That means you're going to see a lot of new employees of police officers who are out doing the job and fighting crime. So everyday life is undoubtedly getting better. But, of course, we're not on target.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2121	The representative Ulf Leirstein spoke warmly about the police reform. I come from Inner Eastfold, and in Inner Eastfold we carried out a police reform, from below and up, in 2010, where we shut down some of our LEN's offices and gathered in the Inner Eastfold Police Station. But there were some assumptions for that, including: increased preventive preparedness, passport service, arms loops, civil law services, etc. With the police reform now underway, the Inner Eastfold Police Station, which serves about 50,000 inhabitants, of which 45 000 in the new Inner Eastfold municipality of 2020, are losing, at least seems to be losing, both passport service, the ability to provide arms licences and other civil law services. So the inhabitants of Inner Eastfold are referred to Ski or Lillestrøm. Does the representative of Leirstein think this is satisfactory for the people of Inner Eastfold, or does the representative of Leirstein agree that this is something to be taken into consideration?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2130	We have launched a police reform. Of course, that police reform is not yet in progress. We have provided 12 new police districts, with 12 new police officers, with many powers and strong confidence from the majority of the Stortinge to implement a near-police reform for the benefit of the citizens. We're not going to be in the goal in a couple of years. It will take time to adapt that reform in line with the intentions. In the case of Inner Eastfold, as I know very well, since both my mother and father are from the same district as the representative Myhrvold, it is such that we have a very good police station there. It's what I expect to be a cop, and I also expect it to provide services to the people of Inner Eastfold in a good and safe way. I myself had a meeting with the police chief at that station in the election campaign, and he was very pleased with the police reform. I think that was also the message when the representative Myhrvold was present and visited the same police station, that the police chief was very pleased with the reform for which the Right-Fremskrit Party government has been given a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2139	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2144	In his speech earlier today, the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party announced that there would be a new government platform from the Right and the Advance Party. We in the Center Party are excited when it comes to what's the new government plan, and what's the strategy. In 2009, when we regained power, there were negotiations on a new government platform immediately, and it was presented on 7 October 2009, as a basis for the debate and for the debate. So my challenge to the Prime Minister is: When can we see a new government platform from the Right and the Advance Party? What's the new strategy, what's the policy, where's the way the government is going to go for the next four years? Yesterday's era was marked by the fact that the government has no new goals, no new visions. There was a speech almost chronically free of new grips. There were two warnings. One warning was that they're going to continue with the same centralization they've done in the last four years. They will continue the reforms that have led to more centralisation and more bureaucracy. The second grip that was announced is that the government will have more market liberalism through increased free trade. Concepts such as food security, workers’ rights and national ownership of natural resources were not mentioned in a word, only the objective of more market liberalism. I had expected more from the government at the beginning of a boom period, that there were some new alerts, some new grip. It wasn't. In the autumn elections it was a district uprising against all the centralisation reforms of the government. The parties that had supported the centralisation reforms without popular anchoring went back. Right went back, the Progress Party went back, the Christian People's Party went back, the Left went back. Erna Solberg said in the party leader debate the evening after the election that it had been attempted to create a myth that there has been a district uprising. It is not possible to say that the government parties have gone back in the districts," said Erna Solberg. Let's take a look at the numbers: in the 149 municipalities defined as the least central, the four parties – the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left – go from 43,3 to 35,9 pst. from 2013 to 2017. The center part goes from 15.6 to 27.9 pst. And along with the rest of the opposition we got 62.5 pst. by the votes of the municipalities most affected by the reforms. People see what happens when the police are centralised, when local home protection is brought down, when a centralisation is notified within Nav, when local tax offices are closed down, when municipalities are brought together by coercion, and when new regions are created without a popular anchor. That's why we got the district uprising that we got, and that's why the four parties went back massively to the least central municipalities. We got more excitement, because people saw the consequences of politics. We're going to use our increased support to promote new proposals. Today we presented nine proposals – nine good, thought-out proposals for which I think it is possible to have a majority. In the weeks to come, we're going to promote new grips on broadband bets, because we need a digitisation of Norway as a whole. We are going to make new proposals on defence, because we need to have a good preparedness across the country. The downgrading of Homeland Protection that today's government has set in motion is unwise. We're going to promote new grips in terms of preparedness. We must have a well-functioning and good preparedness from Finnmark in the north to Agder in the south. We are going to promote new approaches to national ownership, to ensure ownership of the natural resources in Norwegian hands so that one can use them to build our country and to balance differences. So, dear President, this is going to be an exciting period, and there are going to be a lot of political proposals where there seems to be now a party that believes in all of Norway that has increased the upswing in the elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2163	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2168	I agree with Mr Vedum's representative that the languages of the throne lacked the great grips of the major challenges facing the country in the future. But I would like to address a major challenge that neither the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum was in, namely that many of us, especially children and young people, are increasingly struggling with mental health. Today is the World Day for Mental Health. The good balance between thoughts and feelings is quite important for us to be active, healthy and gentle. I think Battle Violence Vedum has that balance, it's said that he's very gentle, but we know that many people need help. We also know that these problems can be prevented. For this reason, the Workers’ Party, together with SV, has proposed that mental health and lifelong learning should enter school. We didn't get that with the Center Party at that time. What does the world look like over the next four years, Battle Violence Vedum? Is that what the Center Party wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2173	In the last period, the Senterpartiet promoted proposals for a stepping-up plan for mental health in municipalities, and we also earmarked funds for mental health in three of our last alternative state budgets. So the goal is much of the same. We get to sit down together and see what action is right to take, so there might be something from their proposal and something from our proposal that, in total, can create a good policy that will give us an even better mental health protection in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2178	The centre party has had a policy in the election campaign and in recent years where the core seems to be that they should be against whatever the Right and Government are for. When the government modernises the public sector, the town halls make available digitally and make changes that lead to less bureaucracy and better services, the Centre Party is opposed. And it's not like you're promoting your own alternative proposals – no, it just keeps the Central Party against other people's policies. I would therefore like to ask the representative Schlagsvold Vedum: when the road company Nye Veier builds the same roads faster, with equal quality and up to 30 billion. kr less than provided, why is the Central Party against?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2185	Congratulations with a new role as a wholesaler – it is very nice to see all the new representatives – and a good line! I'll try to give a good answer. The centre party is a pragmatic party. That is why we are saying in our programme that we are going to implement the projects that New Veger has already started, because we need to see how this works. If you go in and look at some of the projects that New Roads have taken over, you can see that some of them were very simple, and finished the project. But the point is, now it's going on, now it's going to be completed, and then we're going to evaluate in retrospect whether it's been a good and appropriate way. We've asked some questions. We're still going to do that, but now we're going to give work to the projects that have been implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2192	In May 2017, Trygve Slagsvold Vedum said the following: ‘Minister of State Erna Solberg has ruled the most centralizing government this country has ever seen.’ It was a heavy and accusing claim, which fortunately was factually checked by the NRK. The conclusion was that the claim was completely wrong – a claim and a prediction the representative also goes on in his post today. As a finnmarking, I notice – as others in the districts – that there is going to be a lot of noise in the districts in 2017. The local economy under this government has not been so good since the last millennium. The construction of roads and railways in the districts is enormous and the maintenance service has been reduced for the first time in a long time. In agriculture, we see a new optimism. There is a reduction in the number of farms than when the Senter Party had the Minister of Agriculture. Self-sufficiency is increasing, we produce more food and are self-sufficient in lambs. My question is whether the representative can acknowledge that the party's claim and predictions have been put to shame, and, at the same time, whether the representative is pleased with the positive developments that have taken place in the districts lately.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2206	I believe it was a very good round we had in the Questionnaire on the summer. Politics is at the seventh and last whole. The sum of the arrests made in terms of the coercion of municipalities, in terms of a lower charging policy for those in Norway who depend on the car, in terms of the centralisation of the police, in terms of the reduction of the defence, in terms of the coercion of Finnmark and Troms, creates a massive centralisation. My assessment is that it's the centralization of the times. Unfortunately, centralisation is also very, very evident in Finnmark. There was an uprising along the coast of Finnmark when Per Sandberg launched its new grip in the fisheries policy, gripping that would detach the coast even more from the huge marine resources that are outside. So instead of being so concerned about the last period, the representative should be concerned about the future of the fisheries policy, if the Progress Party continues on the course announced by Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2214	I would like to congratulate the Battle of Vedum and the Central Party on a good choice and look forward to a good cooperation with them here in Stortinget. One of our most important tasks will be to ensure a majority in this Chamber for a more ambitious climate policy than the government provides, because the window closes quickly. One area in which there is a broad consensus that we are going to implement emissions reductions is the transport sector. Unfortunately, here we agree more on the objective than on the measures, and it does not tend to be very good for the climate issue. Therefore, I wonder if the Senterpartiet will be involved in increasing the purchase fees for new fossil cars, and so ensure that the one-off fee becomes the instrument to reduce emissions in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2221	In Norway we are completely dependent on the car. The car gives freedom, the car is a good one, and it is absolutely useful in large parts of the country. We're not going to take any action in car policy to make some groups take the big bill. One of the problems in the car policy now is that those who have the lowest purchasing power have been penalised most in terms of taxes on the car they had to buy, and they have had higher taxes on fuel. We're going to take action in car policy that's wise and good, that gets environmental emissions down, but that has a social and geographical profile at the same time. It may not be that the assistant nurse should have a higher bill of charge than the lawyer, and there is some of the problem with today's car policy. Then we have to use our senses and think about the environment, while we're thinking about distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2228	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2233	We have many major tasks ahead of us in this process of enlargement, but the most important task is, however, to pursue a climate and environmental policy that ensures a sustainable future. If we are to achieve that, we must be willing to take great action, because the global average temperature is rising, snow and ice are melting, and the sea is rising and getting more acidic. We can already see dramatic climate change in many places, such as melting glaciers or more and more powerful hurricanes. If we are to be able to stop the increase in global warming, we need to take the international agreement on climate and environment seriously. We need to take our part in the task of achieving the objectives and strengthening the objectives of the Paris Agreement. In the view of the Left, a commitment to the EU's climate objectives and an agreement with the EU is crucial to achieving our commitments. The EU is a driver of climate policy. I am pleased that this was specifically taken up in the throne speech. With an agreement with the EU, we increase predictability of climate policy and make implementation more systematic. Most importantly, performance requirements become more binding. There is no contradiction between linking us to an agreement with the EU on climate objectives and having national own objectives. There are also several EU countries that have. An agreement obliges us to carry out large cuts in the non-quota sector. To reach 40 pst. emissions cut in the non-quota sector, we must cut at least 50 pst. in the transport sector. Only zero-emission vehicles shall be sold in 2025. We have already adopted that. So it is necessary to continue with the good policy for zero-emission cars, but it also needs to be strengthened. When we are going from 2025 to receive 130 000 to 140 000 zero-emission vehicles every year, we need to have a charging infrastructure that is designed to do this, and we need hydrogen filling stations. We also need to stimulate the increased use of zero emission solutions for ships, heavy goods vehicles and construction machinery. We must continue to focus on increasing the use of bicycles and public transport, so that we can achieve the national targets of zero growth for urban passenger transport. Norway is a rich and well-organised country. It gives us great opportunities to implement offensive climate policies. With the right framework conditions, the market is becoming the very largest emitter driver. One of the most important things we can do in the coming period is to create a market for zero-emission solutions. We need to support innovation in private business so that they can develop solutions that others can implement. Norway needs to be converted, in order to reduce emissions here, but huge investments must also be made internationally in renewable energy, in climate adaptation, in order to conserve water resources and in many other environmental measures. We need to ensure that we have a competitive Norwegian business that is able to take part in these investments. Then we must continue to invest in research, strengthen Enova, strengthen environmental technology systems, have Renewable AS in place and have an offensive industrial policy for a green transition. But we also need to prepare ourselves for a decline in other revenue from the petroleum sector. When the whole world is changing, the answer can't be that we shouldn't change. For the Left, the petroleum policy is simple. It consists of three parts: we're going to stay away from vulnerable areas, like LoVeSe, Jan Mayen, Mørefelten, Skagerrak and the nearby Finnmark coast, and we have to get a professional definition of the ice edge in the north. At the same time, we also need to ensure that there are as low emissions during production as possible, with still electrification or handling that allows exhaust gases to be returned to the ground. And the investments have to pay off. We have to look at the tax system and its device again. In the light of the Paris agreement, where we know that consumption has to go down internationally, we have to see if the arrangements for the exploration fusion system and the proceeds are correct today, whether the risk is too much in the community, whether one has to transfer and ensure that it is applied to the companies. Finally, these are only the climate challenges. In addition, we need to reduce the emissions of plastic pollution into the sea, and we need to ensure that we preserve biodiversity – we have a big task in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2254	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2259	The pillar of our welfare state is that as far as possible is at work, that new jobs are still being created, and that those who are at work have safe conditions. Unfortunately, we have been looking back on this field for the four-year period we have left behind. Even fewer are at work, hardly any new jobs are created, and there are still reports of lawless conditions in some sectors. Social dumping has become the rule rather than the exception in these sectors. Therefore, before the summer, the Labour Party submitted 31 proposals for social dumping. Unfortunately, the proposals were voted down in this Chamber. But we start this session with blank papers, and therefore the question of the representative of Elvesuen is: Will the Left join the fight against social dumping and vote for the Workers' Party's proposal to amend the Working Environment Act to limit the use of fixed-term rentals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2264	First to the reality description, which I don't quite share: I think we've done a lot to strengthen business over the past four years. We had a difficult situation with low oil prices, but I believe that, on the action side, also for the smallest companies, with business angels, with seed funds, with the strengthening of research, with the strengthening of the environmental technology system, with Enova, we have strengthened the whole instrument to get a greener and stronger business. Otherwise, of course, we should work for good working conditions. We need strong organisations, and we need to support them in combating what is called social dumping. With regard to the concrete proposals of the Labour Party, we really need to look at them. What we went into in the last period is a small decoration to have a more flexible working life, while we've been tightening up on what goes on how long the temporaryity can last.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2271	Thanks for the answer. Another question I want to ask is about school — a common arena that is crucial to giving each student the opportunity to reach their own dreams. The common school as the arena is not only a place of knowledge, education and well-being, but also an arena that erases the difference between parents' wallet, background and skin color. The day before the election, VG could report that in the last four years, the number of private school places was doubled compared to the previous government – with the blessing of the Left. That's why I want to ask the representative Elvesuen about the left during this big time period will help to strengthen the common school and give fewer private schools a stamp of approval, so that we can make sure that all students get the best starting point, not just those who can pay for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2280	Both in-house and private schools must comply with laws and regulations. Our primary task is to strengthen public schools. It's going to keep the left clicking on also in this period. First of all, it's about a commitment to teachers, that we have a better follow-up and further training of teachers. Then we also have to take a force to make sure that everyone who comes into school gets good conditions. In the last period, we did a lot to get free core time in kindergartens. Now we want to continue working to make sure that everyone is also part of what is important integration work and socialisation in school, that we ensure that everyone is given the opportunity to join the SFO.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2289	Yesterday it became known that Uber is shutting down its pop service in Norway. It was a happy day, but it was supposed to be missing. Uber has been engaged in illegal activities in Norway over time: Passenger transport for hire or reward is prohibited under Norwegian law. But what's the first left hand thing doing? Well, they're going out to VG today and they're inviting Uber back to Oslo. Jon Gunnes, the new traffic policy spokesman of the left, says: ‘The law of the capital must be adapted so that Uber can provide good services there.’ One must clearly establish Oslo as a safe haven for taxiing, where Norwegian law is not applicable. Liberalisation in cities is a very bad idea; it has been tried by others before. It leads to more expensive and worse solutions. That the left is not so concerned about employee rights, and believes that you should have a taxi anywhere, always, is perhaps not so surprising. But why does the Left turn up to a policy that will lead to over-establishment, increased idle driving and increased environmental problems in a city where pollution is already too great?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2294	What we're saying is that we need to have a regulatory framework for services like Uber. I would say that I am neither happy nor sorry for what has now happened. What it shows is that there is a business where you do not have an adapted legislation, which guarantees workers' rights in the services they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2300	I would like to return to some of the things that Elvesuen had in her article. The representative Elvesuen and I have been shoulder to shoulder for a number of years fighting for our clean fjords and against these being used as waste for the mining industry. Unfortunately, contrary to environmental warnings, the government has allowed Nordic Mining and Nussir to dump huge amounts of mining sludge in Førdefjorden and Repparfjorden respectively. Like the Left, we fear that this can lead to irreparable damage to the life of the fjords. But the last words are not said. Neither Nordic Mining nor Nussir has yet received an operating concession from the government. That is why I would like to ask the representative of Elvesuen: will the Left support the budget for a government using the Fördefjord and Repparfjord as waste ground for the mining industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2309	The left has worked against the dumping of mining waste in both Repparfjorden and Fördefjorden. We're going to use the possibilities we have to fight it even in this period, as we did in the previous period. We need to get a law in Norway that puts an end to further projects as well. I guess we'll soon be the only country that allows that kind of dumping of mining waste. We want to look at the tools and the possibilities that we have with the composition that we now have on Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2314	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2319	In the Constitution of 1814 the nobility was abolished. What has been the Norwegian nobility mark has been that there are small differences between people. We are proud to be in a country where power and wealth are evenly distributed than in most other countries. It's even being pulled out by the King himself in the throne. With small differences, we have more pride in each other, we have worked better together, and we have had a strong sense of community. It's just this right hand side challenge. Although differences in Norway are still smaller than in many other countries, differences in Norway are growing more than in all OECD countries today. It's not strange when we have a government that systematically gives the biggest money to the richest through annual tax cuts, while the rest gets sparse or even cut in many cases. It's a sign that as the differences increase, more power and wealth accumulate on fewer hands, it gets concentrated to a few, at the expense of the many. This landmark has the people of the coast known in close proximity. With a blue-blue Minister for Fisheries, liberalisation in fisheries is speeding up. In five years, the price of participating in the closed fish has increased by about 1,000 pst. Young people do not have the nubshange to get in, and now even established fishermen in the coastal communities are tired of participating in the prize-winners. With record speed, the government has managed a system where dishes, which has been associated with coastal communities for thousands of years, are now rigged for them with a lot of money, those who are dry and safe far away from the boats and the sea. Coastal communities with rich fishing banks just outside living windows are suddenly placed on the sidelines because they cannot compete on capital. Who are the people of the coast if they lose access to the sea? Who is the Finnish mark, the northern landing, the west landing, the bogsing, the bogsing, the florewing, the bum, the search search, if one misses the approach to the sea? Who is the Norwegian people, the people of the North, if we lose access to the sea, that it is controlled by a few strong financial environments? Who are we? We in SV will continue our fight for the right of coastal people to the sea – now with even greater strength and mandate. It is in Norway's strategic and economic interest that the control of the sea is spread along the coast. It is the spread, flexible and smallest coastal fleet that delivers the freshest fish of the highest quality, providing the best prices in the market and providing for most industrial workplaces on land. At least then, it's no wonder that there'll be uprisings when the government both weakens coastal access to the sea and adds to a fishing that's not in Norway's interest. When the government wants a higher quota ceiling and increases the concentration of dishes, there will be fewer boats, fishermen and fishing communities and more frozen fish sent to industry in other countries. In addition, for the next four years, SV will be working to join two major battles in a larger alliance. We want to work to unite the coastal people's struggle with the struggle for a new agricultural policy. There will be an alliance between all those who want to use the whole country, where the small and medium-sized people in the districts will be used – to take the earth back, to make Norway more self-sufficient. Long has been the same evolution on land as on the sea. Concentration and centralisation, where lack of roofing and borders pushes out small and spread actors and drives forward a centralised, intensive and power-feed-based use of the soil. It's time for us to gather these forces into a broad alliance between sea and land. Together, we're going to take the sea and the earth back on the people's premises, not on the premises of a little elite with access to capital. The election results have given us the following paradox: The government does not have a majority for its policy in any of the natural resource-based industries in Norway, but it still has, and with its powers, it can therefore pursue a policy for which there is no democratic basis. It's a democratic problem, and the only ones who can fix it are the Storting. It's our duty and our responsibility. We, who make up the real plurality of Stortinget, have to use the next few months to figure out the new lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2340	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2345	There are some issues on which there is broad political agreement, on which the representative was at the outset, and that is that we should have small differences in this country. It wants both right and right. Differences in Norway have increased moderately in the last 40 years, yet Norway is among the countries with the least differences in the world. According to the Brochmann II Committee, the main cause of the slight increase in inequality in Norway is immigration. Despite this, SV wants to increase immigration to Norway, and SVs Audun Lysbakken recently stated that he believes that the debate on immigration and integration should be two different debates. It is strange, all the time when there is a lack of integration, not least in the labour market, is one of the factors contributing to increased disparities. This is not related. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Fylkesnes, whether he will contribute to a policy that can allow us to succeed in one of the most important measures to keep small differences, or whether the representative will continue to close his eyes for the main cause of increased disparities, while at the same time making provision for increased immigration to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2352	That was a surprising question. If I understand Kristensen correctly, the representative believes that we should rather reduce the migration to Norway in order to reduce the differences in Norway – that is, Norway should not take on seriously our obligations under international law because we need to reduce the differences in Norway. I think it's a very special entrance port. Norway has a duty to accept refugees, people who are in a difficult situation, and at the same time we have a duty to reduce the differences in our own country. That one brings a bigger problem to our country, makes the challenge bigger – yes, but it is not said that in order to overcome the increasing differences in society, we need to reduce our international obligations. It seemed to me to be a rather special input to the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2357	Then I am afraid the representative misunderstood my question. It's not about us not taking our share of responsibility and accepting those people who need our protection. But we've seen for quite many years, even under the red-green government, that there are major challenges to being able to integrate the immigrants and refugees who come to Norway, and that one of the most important things we can do to maintain small differences is to help them get into the labour market as well. What I'm wondering is that SV wants to increase immigration, all the time we now see that the increase in inequalities we have is actually due to increased immigration. What I'm asking is whether it's not more right to join a policy that might limit immigration to the level we now have, not to increase inequalities further.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2362	I actually believe I understood the original question, that the representative wants to reduce immigration with the aim of reducing the increasing trend in differences. SV wants to implement an entirely opposite strategy, which we also demonstrated over eight years in government. Iceland and Norway were the only countries, during the eight years of SV in government, where differences were reduced, even at a time when immigration was significantly higher than it is in the situation Norway is now. There is no contradiction between working to reduce differences in society and at the same time taking on significant obligations under international law — a country that really has great potential to do so. Let me just illustrate that when this government spent a lot of money on reducing wealth taxes, SV's proposal was to increase welfare, which would include. reduces the differences in the broad population.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2367	I'm also from the coast, and there the Workers' Party just lost the choice to want to increase taxes significantly. I have understood that SV will press the Workers' Party and other possible partners to increase them further, not only the property tax, but also by reintroducing the inheritance tax, which is particularly unsocial. I am very proud that this government, with the Advancement Party and the Right, has reduced health cows and introduced free treatment choices. It also helps to reduce differences. It gives an increased freedom of choice and is the best thing for the patient. I wonder: why does the representative want to kill the welfare entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2372	There were several aspects that were raised in the question, but to take the inheritance fee first: it is today at zero. When you take inheritance, it's zero in taxes in Norway today. If, on the other hand, one is thinking about money from normal work, we have huge taxes. SV means it's a special situation we have in Norway today, where the taxation of work is very high, while the taxation of wealth, inheritance and property is very low. Why should honest work be taxed much higher than the passive action to receive inheritance? At the same time, we know that there's one thing that really keeps the big differences in society today at home, it's just inheritance. Seven out of ten of the richest in the country are heirs. It's where the great historical sins lie that we haven't been able to do anything about the great biases in wealth and inheritance, between generations, between different layers of the population. If you're going to do something about it, you're going to have to shift the tax from work to property, inheritance and wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2378	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2383	We live in a troubled world – brutal conflicts that affect millions of people, terror also in our own continent, a Europe that is wild after Brexit, elections that reverse political power conditions, an American that is more polarized than in several generations, refugee flows, climate crisis, globalisation and technological changes that are turning people's workplaces and across entire industries. The census is the place of a government to describe these challenges and Norway’s strategies to meet them. Let me start by giving the government praise at a point where we are completely in agreement. It is that Norway has a good starting point. High standards of living, high levels of trust between people and a strong economy give us a better opportunity than most other countries to find solutions and create good lives for our citizens. Nevertheless, there are some strong pillars in the Norwegian society that the government does not describe: tripartite cooperation, strong organisations on both the employers' and the workers' side, with LO and NHO at the head, but also several others, a cooperation where the parties take responsibility and cooperate with the public, a strong public sector where health, care and school are mainly provided by the community with an equivalent – not two-part – offer to people and a tradition of an ambitious public enterprise policy, a strong state ownership where natural resources and large industrial locomotives are jointly owned and developed for the common good. That's what we need to build on and strengthen if we're to succeed in the clear international waters to which we're going. Politics is about people's security, about their opportunities, about people's lives. Many people say that they are worried about the safety of their working life, that their own jobs are being changed and changed, and that they themselves are afraid not to hang out with or that their children are not going to succeed in school and then in working life. For the Workers' Party, work for all, industrial development and job creation will always be the main foundation of a safe and fair society. Work for everyone today is about a business life in constant conversion, and our task is to create security in that transition. In the course of their careers, young people who go out of work will be working with technologies that are not yet available, to solve tasks that we do not know about today, to work in companies and businesses that are not yet established. At the same time, the researchers are talking about that a third of the jobs that are available today may be gone in 20 years. It requires an enormous ability to convert. Once again, it's a well-organized working life that gives us advantages, that we take responsibility for each other, a change solidarity that gives everyone the opportunity to learn what's needed to solve new tasks – once again a dimension that unfortunately is absent from the government's throne. Others say that they are concerned about the climate crisis, that we need a shift in our transport sector, a change in housing and travel patterns and new, energy-efficient technologies. We've become rich in oil and gas, and we have businesses and workers with enormous productivity and profitability. We're still going to have to have that. At the same time, however, we need to develop the new industries that will give us the living standard of the future – the sea, renewable energy, health technology, ICT and the enormous digitisation that will take place in all areas. We've led into major industrial ventures. Norway has invested, owned, developed and invested together. That's what we now have to do in these new areas. There has never been a greater need for an active enterprise policy — once again an area that was absent from the throne. The third area people say they're worried about is a two-part welfare state. Reform break there were some right-wing politicians talking about the previous period. But there has never been a greater need for reforms. It was interesting to hear that there was talk in the throne of a sustainable welfare reform. But what does that mean? Does it mean a welfare reform that makes welfare poor enough, or does it also mean that it is effective enough, that we have confidence in employees, that we reduce bureaucracy and increase production, that we invest in new technology, that we ensure the well-being of enough revenues, so that we provide an equivalent offer to everyone? How are we to ensure that those who are dependent on public support schemes do not become in permanent poverty? How are we going to give the 15 000 young people who leave school every year without completing, an opportunity for letter and study skills? How should we care for the elderly? Work life, climate, well-being – this is going to be the main pillars of the Workers' Party in the forthcoming ageing period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2398	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2403	The representative Geske spoke a lot about the security of his contribution, and some of the security of Norwegian policy over many years is to be able to agree on important settlements. I have recorded that the Workers' Party's evaluation of a disappointing election result has been asking the question: Have we been too constructive? It's worth remembering that the opposite of constructive is destructive. So the entrance of the working party to this ageing period is to ask the question: Should we be more destructive? I think it is a little sad to see that the so-called eagle in Norwegian politics has now taken the form of a weatherman who turns after the wind. It was the cooperation between the Labour Party and the Right that enabled us to land in the last period both asylum settlements, tax settlements and the long-term defence plan. My question to the representative Giske is: is it that the Labour Party's line of responsibility has now been abandoned and that the Giske line has taken over?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2410	I am strongly attached to the expression to my boss for ten years, Jens Stoltenberg, that there are few things in politics that are more beautiful than a settlement, and I can warn that now that we have the opportunity in opposition to actually create a majority even when the government is not involved, we are going to contribute to such settlements taking place. The last time we had a real minority government, in 2003, I was the case rapporteur for a conciliation, the kindergarten agreement, which made sure that we got child care coverage for everyone, we got a maximum price, which the Right had fought against, and we got 40,000–50,000 more employees – a huge welfare reform. I was also at the forefront of a state church settlement in which seven parties in the Grand Duchy gathered on one of the most difficult issues in politics, namely belief and life-seeing policy. The representative may be sure that we're going to be on a deal, but we're going to make sure that the comparisons go in the direction of our policy, and that they're being followed up in a good way. There I think we have a job to do with the government that sits today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2417	I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the representative Giske on his new role as a fiscal spokesperson, and my question will therefore be about taxation. As head of the Labour Party election, Giske was one of the architects behind 15 billion. kr in increased taxes and taxes, including an increase in taxes on wealth. In the Workers' Party's alternative state budget for this year, the property tax was proposed to be increased by 4 billion. kr, the same amount as they would reduce the use of oil money. So you would use every penny you took into increasing taxes from Norwegian business owners to invest in shares in Microsoft and Coca Cola. After the election, can we expect a new line at the Workers' Party, or will Norwegian company owners expect to be met with the same hostile attitude to Norwegian ownership now that Giske has both hands on the wheel?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2424	Firstly, I think the vast majority of economists would say that the use of oil money that the Right and the Advance Party have been in the last four years cannot continue. If we double our use of oil every four years, that box will be empty at least long before my children come in the middle of their working life. It is an irresponsible way of caring for common values for future generations. Our generation, the richest in history, has to pay more for our own current expenses with the goods and services and production that we provide for ourselves. And when we invest in international companies, it's not to support Microsoft or Pepsi, it's to get a return on the money that we've pumped up from the North Sea, so that they benefit many generations. We are going to be in charge of such a responsible policy. It will surprise me if the government does not also show in the state budget that they have listened to, learned from and understood the warnings that economists bring, and ensure that oil money growth is reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2431	I am pleased that the representative Giske so clearly underlined the need for an active industrial policy in his speech. We are constantly receiving messages from business operators that they experience more control, supervision, reporting, form, regulation management and red tape. It applies both in private enterprises and in the public sector. It's almost like the most important thing you can do is document later that you haven't done anything wrong. My question to the representative Giske is whether he agrees with the fact that red tape, the reduction of red tape, is a central part of industrial policy, which we can gather on the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2438	I fully agree with that. As Minister of Industry, I contributed to the simplification of Norwegian business life of over 5 billion. kr. One of the big things we did then was to remove the audit obligation for small companies, a savings that went straight to the bottom line of many small and medium-sized enterprises. I think there's still a lot to do: digitisation, ALTINN automation, that companies can report one place, and that other public agencies can retrieve their information there instead of having to send new forms to businesses for each department. There are certainly things in both the Accounting Act and other laws that can make it easier to start and operate and gain profitability in businesses. Many farms in Norway are small. The backbone of it is to be able to operate with the production that is the purpose of the company, and to operate as much as possible with bureaucracy and other things that take attention away from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2447	I would also like to congratulate you on your work as a financial spokesperson in the Labour Party. My question is about climate. Today, SV presented a series of new proposals on how to get on track by 2020. The size has an own climate agreement from both 2008 and 2012, and if we are to achieve the target of cutting by 2020, we have presented a series of measures that will enable us to achieve that objective. The great tension is then linked to how the Workers' Party will deal with that proposal there. Our proposal goes in order for us to get a total cut of about 5 million by 2020, that's what we need to get if Norway is to come back on track. Which entry angle will the Labour Party work after the next months? We have a unique possibility now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2454	I fully agree with the representative that the climate area is one of the areas in which I believe the new parliamentary majority will provide completely different opportunities than in the previous period. With a Christian People's Party that is freed from the cooperation agreement, with a real majority of opposition parties, I think we can get to things that in the last period were not allowed to do because the Left and Christian People's Party was too strongly tied up to the Right and the Advance Party. We have wanted a new broad climate settlement, but it is fully possible to imagine that the red-green parties, hopefully with the support of the Christian People's Party – and I would like to see the Left stand outside it – take initiatives that make us actually meet our climate obligations. Of course, it's about, as I know the representative is very concerned about, what's happening in the oil and gas industry, but it's also about transport, it's about housing patterns, it's about industry, it's about renewable energy. There's a lot we can do together to put the climate much higher on the agenda in this big time period than it was in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2462	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2467	The election of 11 September gave a clear new mandate to the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. We have to do what we can to manage the confidence of the voters in a good way. In meeting the ageing wave, climate change and a new working life characterised by digitisation, our project is to take care of Norway as the world's best country to live in. We have a solid basis to build on as we get to a new expansion period. In four years the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party have changed Norway. Norwegian students learn more, thousands of teachers have received continuing education and both absences and dropouts in school. Health cows are getting shorter, and patients are not waiting for treatment for the same time. People have seen that there has become more police in the streets, and that the defense exercises more on land, at sea and in the air. People all over the country have seen workers in excavators and trucks along roads and rails, and they know that now infrastructure is being maintained and built as never before. It is the results of our policy that have given us a new mandate. We don't take easy on the problem that's ahead of us. We don't think it'll be easier to control Norway in the years to come. On the contrary, it will require both political courage and willingness to make difficult choices and tough priorities. The economic space will be smaller as a result of our living longer, and therefore more people need health care and care. We also need to tighten public money so that we don't stick chains in the wheels for that growth and optimism that we now see in the business world. For the Right, the goal is clear: we need more jobs that contribute to the State budget than jobs that live on the State budget. Work is the basis for our common well-being, and it is the key to well-being for the individual. Our goal is clear: in Norway, no one is going to go out to date, and we are going to have a serious and inclusive working life. In my home municipality of Sandnes, I was able to read this summer a headline in the newspaper about young unemployed people who receive social benefits from Nav, who have an obligation to work. Youths thought it was okay to have a job, but of course they wanted a decent job. One of them said: I wish some business managers could come and meet us, talk to us – they would see that we're good people even though we've been a little unlucky in different ways and that's why we're here. The lesson is that we have to give people a new chance. We need to ensure that more people can acquire the skills they need to get into the labour market. Although there is no doubt that our side of politics won the election, the situation in the Storting is different than it has been in the last four years. We're back to the norm of Norwegian politics with a minority government that can rely on different majority in Stortinget. In such a situation, all parties have a responsibility for Norway. Once the task has been demanded, the Stortinget has previously agreed on wide-ranging agreements that ensure the legitimacy and continuity of important matters, irrespective of the parliamentary basis. That's what we in the Right would like to call taking care of the whole of politics. In recent years, party colleague Henrik Asheim and I have been running a podcast. In that we tend to fool a little bit and be a little selfish with our own party. It's easy to mess with things you're happy about, and in the right we're very happy with the responsible economic policy – or the whole thing, as we call it. We're so happy about the whole thing that we sometimes lose sight of the many single things. One joke we've often drawn is that at every budgetary settlement, when the different parties are asked what they're most satisfied with, the Right answer is 'the wholeness'. However, being involved in a responsible economic policy and a broad majority can be quite clever. That is why I was concerned when the leader of the Workers' Party in his evaluation of the election campaign asked if they had been too constructive in opposition. Personally, I have said several times that if for some reason I could not vote on the Right, I would have voted on the Labour Party – and it would have been far inside, but I could have done so. My explanation for this is that the Workers' Party, like the Right, has always been a traditional party to be a governing party that puts its interests ahead of short-term political gain for its own party – simply ‘a serious, manageable alternative that has its back on carrying some unpopular decisions. That puts Norwegian society’s interests ahead of short-term political gain’, as the representative Marianne Marthinsen described it in a portrait interview in Today’s Business. I hope the Workers' Party will continue in that tradition in the future. Of course, we're going to disagree with a lot of things, but I hope we can agree that the whole thing is important, although it can also appear a little confident and boring. Like the Right, the Labour Party has sought broad settlements in important matters, and they have taken responsibility for the fact that the sum of what they are for does not exceed the framework of a responsible economic policy. I hope, therefore, that the Workers' Party will continue to maintain the tradition as a governing party and contribute to the development of new policies in important areas of the country, such as: further reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2494	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2499	The world is already experiencing the consequences of climate change. We also notice climate change in the north – at Svalbard, at Finnmarksvidda. For the Workers' Party, climate is a fundamental issue, and on behalf of the future we must have concrete and ambitious objectives. I have some specific concerns. In a study by the NRC, one in five and an overwhelming majority of the electorate of the Progress Party say that they do not believe that climate change is man-made. And in today's government there are climate negators, blessed by the Right. A random example is the government council Amundsen, who refused to answer this question throughout the election campaign. The question is whether the representative Bru sees any problems or challenges for the Right-led Government by having members in 2017 who will not even answer if they believe that climate change is man-made.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2508	I can see that although it is a new period, there is not much that has changed in the Workers' Party's rhetoric about the climate issue. There is one thing I am concerned about in climate policy, and that is results. What have we seen in the last four years? The results of this government and our cooperation parties in the last period are that greenhouse gas emissions have fallen both in the non-quota sector and in the ETS sector. There has never been so much money allocated to Enova. The Eco-Technology Scheme has had a lot of money and large sums to drive technology development to reduce emissions. We have adopted a lot of offensive policies in the field of transport. We have also, in many cases, dragged the Workers' Party after us in negotiations in Stortingen on this. I have no challenges to be proud of the policy we have pursued and which we will continue to pursue over the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2517	Even if the Right lost the uprising in Rogaland in the election, I would nevertheless take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate Tina Bru as a new bench leader. I would also like to congratulate the representative Bru on being a picture quiz in the last edition of the Bondebladet. It's been two years since the Stortinge decided to renew AS. After two years, the only thing we know is that the company should be located in Stavanger. It has given zero new workspaces, zero value creation. My question to the representative Bru is about her, as I expect, that 2018 will be the year when Renewbar AS gets its first addition and credit for the first investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2524	I would like to start by thanking and congratulating the representative Geir Pollestad, who has now not only been re-elected but has also taken his place as the youngest of the oldest on the rogaland bench. It's going to be nice four new years. So to Renewable AS, I'm happy to see what comes out of that work. I also share the impatience. I want us to get started. I'm very happy about the initiative that came in the last period – pussiness from the Left, but we've also been on to establish Renewable AS. I think it's going to be an innovation in Norway that can ensure great opportunities for our country, and I'm happy to see it in place in Rogaland and in the Stavanger region in the very near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2531	I just want to correct that I'm not the youngest of the oldest, but the oldest of the youngest. To the question: It must be possible to give an answer as to whether we will see a company – Renewable AS – located in Stavanger that has added and contributed to investment during 2018. It is a simple yes/no question, and I hope that the representative Bru can help clarify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2538	The company is definitely located in the Stavanger region, so the simple answer to that question is: Yes, we can expect to see it during 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2543	There will be more congratulations here. I would like to congratulate the Right and the Government on their decision not to allow power expansion in the Protective Seafront in Hordaland. It was a very important victory for nature. On the Hordaland Right web pages we can read the following under the heading ‘Earth watercourse protected!’: ‘The government refuses to extend its power in the Baltic Sea and is in favour of protecting both the lower and upper parts.’ On Twitter the same day that the decision on no to power development was published, Minister for Climate and Environment Vidar Helgesen also wrote: ‘The Government is in full respect of the protection of the Øystese. One of the last pristine watercourses is ensured for natural diversity and open air life.» I would therefore like to ask the representative, Bru, whether the Right is now going in to complement the protection plan for watercourses and to ensure that the Eyewatercourse is permanently protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2561	I would like to begin by welcoming and congratulating my new colleague on the Energy and Environment Committee. In the case of the Baltic Sea watercourse, I am very pleased with the decision that was made there. I believe it is right to ensure the natural values of that watercourse. With regard to the question of supplementing the protection plan, I believe that we do not have the tradition of lifting protective items in a single case without having a complete assessment. I don't think it's time. Neither do I. I decide that, but I think we have to follow the usual processes in these questions and not lift a single watercourse out of an overall overall assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2568	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2573	I want to start by congratulating the president on the job. It's great to have two presidents from Hordaland, who also speak Nynorsk. I think Stortinget is good at getting the rent to meet in a new direction after an old one. The choice can also be used to congratulate those who have water – the cooperation party, the Right Party and the Progress Party. We in the Progress Party think that the election really has historical dimensions. It has never happened in Europe before a junior party in a government coalition succeeds and returns four years later by wanting more of the policies they have been given for four years. In the weeks after the election, one has spent a lot of time analysing the big opposition party, the Labour Party, his election struggle and his result. It's kind of fun for us other people to follow up on what's happening in that party. I note that one of the explanations is that they have been too corrupt, so they lost their options. I, who is from the West, perceive that they were very clear in some areas. In tax policy, they were very clear: the country now needed, was 15 billion. kr more in tax income of the country. I think there's a lot of reason why they lost the option. We in the West do not regard it as proper medicine that one should tax businesses, value creation and citizens more strongly than is the current tax policy today. I believe much of the explanation lies in the fact that the Labour Party did not understand the West either before or after the election. Taxes and charges will be very important for the Progress Party. We believe that if one stimulates both businesses and people to work a little bit smarter, stand on a little more, by keeping them a little bit more of their efforts in their own wallet, they will contribute more. We will therefore continue to work to reduce taxes and charges in Norway. A tax that we have seen very high on the agenda of the election campaign is the property tax, which we record that some municipalities have a lot of. I refer to the line change instead that in Bodø small children families have to choose whether to pay property tax or to have children's garden space. At the same time, we record that the municipalities in 2016 have never had such a good income in this thousand year, a claim I made and were checked in fact, and the fact check was correct. Then it's a paradox that one experiences that the municipalities, in spite of a historically good municipal economy, are increasing and expanding the property tax. So we've seen a lot on the agenda that we want to do something about it. It's because when we see a house in the Progress Party, we see a home, while our competitors see a treasure item. District policy also has a great impact on the election campaign, and I, who's from a district, feel that there's almost a poor location of the districts, the profile you've had, when you give the impression that District Norway needs, transfers from this hall and jobs in the public sector are being moved out. My experience as former spokesperson in a district municipality and as a resident in District Norway is that what we need is to be allowed to process our natural resources, that is, to get labour into the workplace and to export the goods, and that otherwise one is allowed to decide more about local democracy than what we experienced under the red-green government, when the statesmen had a far too great and dominant role. So district policy has been given a solid position in the election campaign. Unfortunately, the critics of this government have a wrong recipe, because the districts do not ask for more government jobs, they ask to be allowed to exploit their own natural resources and to develop further. Therefore, we will continue to have district policy high on the agenda for this period too, but our recipe is that we should have lower taxes, we should spend even more money on the road, a development that we have been working for for four years, we should give more power to local democracy and rely on local politicians to know better than the statesmen what can be allowed, developed and not, and we should continue with good district policy arrangements, such as the holiday settlement system, which this government and the majority of the population strengthened in the previous period. District policy is important, and should meet the challenges, we are forced to be offensive. Then it's not about talking down, it's about talking up the districts in Norway, and we're going to do that for the next four years, because the voters have given us confidence to continue the good policy we've been pursuing for four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2588	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2593	I'm recording that the representative Njåstad believes that Nynorsk is old-fashioned, but fine. Then the representative spoke about the Workers' Party – what the Workers' Party believes, what the Workers' Party has done – and mentions district policy as something we have to talk about. I think action is what you have to do with, I think it's a pretty clear order from the people. The parliamentary leader in the Right stood here today and said that the government has clear visions for Norway. I want to hear what the representative has to report on the clear visions of the Progress Party and that part of the government has for Norway, especially in terms of climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2602	If I was injured to say that new Norwegian is old-fashioned, it is of course wrong. What I meant, was that in the previous period we had no presidents who would lead meet in neon, but that that's it now, is something I'm slipping over, and nothing else. When it comes to action, we in the Progress Party are as ambitious as the rest of the government that we will have visible results in climate policy. An interesting observation that has now been made is that by building a wider route, we get tossed down – with a quadruple road, we actually get tossed down. But we want to motivate and inspire people to choose the smart solutions more than to put obstacles in the way of people, which is perceived as mistakes. We have a lot of offensive policies in climate policy on the charging side – that it is worth choosing the environmentally friendly solutions. In the field after field, one will see that we are concerned about a good climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2611	Then it is interesting to hear what the Western world thinks about a vision for economic development linked to the climate perspective. We have a lot of industry, and a lot of greenhouse gas emissions are going on in industry, while transport is an important part of it. I'm just thinking: a lot of business actors work for technological development and contributions to get less emissions. How does the Progress Party view the interaction between demands, new solutions and new opportunities for industry in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2616	It is good that one discusses the Western perspective. We're going to find a lot of good solutions. I would like to use an example here: there has been a lot of talk about the fact that the ferry in Norway is an environment and has a lot of emissions. In the last four years, we've actually done a lot with it. We may not have been good enough to tell people that we've done a lot with it, because I registered that the party of the questioner in the election campaign made a number that now they should bet on something that we've already been able to do through increased permissions, through increased funds to the county councils, so that they can make higher demands. It will help the entire maritime cluster with shipyards in the West. Not least, we're going to get rid of what's coming out of the state, and what's coming out of the state. We do a lot to help a maritime cluster with regard to the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2623	I would like to congratulate the President on that position. It's nice to right new Norwegian also from that place in Stortinget. So to the question: In an interview with ABC News on 1 July, Justice Commissioner Leirstein was quoted from the following: «National security must precede an agreement concluded several years ago. We are willing to put national interests above Schengen. We're not going to open the boundaries." The representative added in the same interview that the Progress Party does not feel safe on the border controls carried out in our neighbouring countries, and that Norway must therefore take its own rules of conduct. In the same article, only 9 out of 78 border crossings are staffed in Norway. Can the representative deepen what the Progress Party will actually do with the border control in Norway after we've had four years of Progress Party government and there's still only 9 of 78 border crossings that are manned. Was this what was called permanent border control?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2637	I have to say that the representative Navarsete in the question goes very much into the quotation of Ulf Leirstein and his area. I have to ask for respect for the fact that I cannot fully answer what we intend to do in the judicial fraction in this area, in addition to the fact that it is of course important for us to have safe borders, both in connection with the external borders of Schengen and cooperation with other countries, and our own borders. That question lies in our justice fraction, which Ulf Leirstein continues to lead. I invite the representative to ask him that question, and she will certainly get a better answer than what I can give right over the table in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2642	The government and the representative Njåstad have an explanation problem, for the title should be ‘A sustainable welfare society’. Nevertheless, over four years we have seen too much oil money use, huge tax relief for the richest and a wide range of petty welfare measures, affecting the poorest. This can hardly be called sustainable. Then I record that the government is still notifying tax relief and perhaps even – hopefully – less oil money usage. But we don't hear anything about the petty cuts. My questions to the representative Njåstad are: What will happen to the thousands who have lost the child supplement to the disability benefit? What will happen to the thousands of people who have lost their living quarters? And what will happen to those pensioners who are still experiencing a fall in purchasing power?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2650	The whole premise for the question is that if you pick up a few smaller items of what we've been doing in the last four years, you're wrong. If you look at health, you can see that we have developed the welfare state in many areas. We have introduced new arrangements. When it comes to poverty, we've done a lot of things that the red-green government didn't do. In addition, we have been able to strengthen the municipal economy, which has improved the ability of municipalities to provide good services to citizens. So I don't accept the premise that we've seen tax havens over well-being, because we've actually done both of them in this previous period. When one also asks us about sustainability, we manage to balance it in a good way – healthy and good economy along with good welfare arrangements. The party that the questioner represents has been in favour of a strike on the asylum field that is not viable at all, and that would generate expenditure to Norway that is at a completely different level from what one points to. So I don't entirely accept the premise for the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2657	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2662	Today, I want to focus on what is one of the most important things on the Stortingen in the fall, the so-called "landmaktavningaringaringaringaringaringaringaringaringaringaringaringaringaringaringaringaringaringaringaringaringar. As a populace, our most fundamental task is to ensure Norwegian citizens' security. National security is the foundation of all activities. No welfare service can be provided to citizens unless their sovereignty is guaranteed. The central party wants a society where there are people in the country who actually rule the country. A strong Norwegian People's Government has led a well-functioning and sovereign nation state, and it is not possible to guarantee Norwegian citizens their sovereign right to rule their country without a strong Norwegian defence. I met this weekend at NATO PA's home session in Bucuresti. There was a focus on many of the challenges that are happening around us, but there was also a focus on funding defence in the alliance. The Central Party takes Norway seriously its obligations towards NATO. During our 2015 national meeting, we decided that the defence must be strengthened, and that Norway must increase the rights of the defence corresponding to 2 p.m. GDP. This is a goal which the Prime Minister himself has signed in Wales, but which she later expressed was customs. At the Right's own national meeting, there was a rebellion against this, which also led the Right's decision-making to a 2 pst. goal in its own program. After this, just as the Right Party has its own defence minister must admit that the government's own defence plan, the government's long-term plan, is far from meeting our obligations to NATO. What is the mandate for the Landmaktuition project? Yes, to put forward a proposal that may be within the 20-year economic framework underpinned by the long-term plan for rural power. The long-term plan does not provide sufficient funding to ensure the Army all the necessary capabilities for its operation. NATO is clear that Norway needs a modern and mechanized brigade. The Center Party will work hard to ensure this. With the fact that the other major parties on the Stortinget also have NATO's 2 pst. goal, I expect that they will support the Center Party's strong commitment to the Defence in the coming years. The first possibility of getting on the track from the government is already when the government budget is due in two days. The method selected to keep the national measure separately until after the option was given. By keeping track of the land acquisition, the Right Party and the Advance Party made it very difficult for the voters to decide on the development of the Army and the Home Guard before the election. Now the full debate cannot be held. We in the Center Party are going to work for everyone in Norway to get information they need about the development of Defence, because the development of Defence is fundamental to the future of our country. We believe in people's wisdom and sovereigns' right to rule the country. As big a question as we are about to deal with, not only can hosts decide in some offices in the ministry – not even in the government conference. There's been a lot of unrest in the defense in the last year. Even the defense of its top leaders, who think very carefully through their words before they speak to the media, strongly warn against what is happening. Chief of Army, Odin Johannessen, has determined that the government's long-term plan is a depriorization of the Army, and the head of Homeland Protection, Tor Rune Raabye, concluded in a chronicle in DN on Wednesday 12 July that Norway needs more, not fewer HV soldiers. The army has been reduced by more than 90 pst. and HV by 50 pst. I think the reductions have gone too far. Few, if any, other European countries are cutting their homes today. Among other things, France, Finland and Latvia are now increasing their protection at home, and there was a review tone at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly meeting that there is a need for a large and ongoing strengthening of the defence in the alliance of their member countries. The United States is very clear. We need the United States as a dedicated NATO ally, not least Norway needs it. It's me that's NATO in the north, it's me that has the north flank. As has also been the focus in recent times, it may be delayed, both because of the treasons of neighbouring countries and because climate change causes a much greater interest from many countries, including China and other countries that are far away from the northern regions initially. So from the Central Party's side, we're going to stand up for the Norwegian defense, and we're looking forward to a lot of exciting debates in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2681	A society that's good for our kids is a society that's good for everyone. The consideration of young people and young people goes like a yellow thread through the Christian People's Party program. In the health field, this means better maternity care, working for more people in the school health service and for more health sisters, a stepping-up plan for children and young people’s mental health, a stepping-up plan against violence and abuse against our young people, and ensuring a regular health care system – for young children’s parents, for adults and for the elderly. The main objective of the Christian People's Party is to have a policy that creates a child-friendly society – a society for all. A safe and good growth for everyone will last their lives. A society based on the needs of young people must and must be prioritised by the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party shall be constructive and will cooperate. We can cooperate with all the parties that want to create a society where our kids are in the center. It's all about trying to get through to the program we've gone to. For the Christian People's Party, this means that we want to ensure that children and young people are given priority, that the non-profit sector has actors who contribute to an incredible number of good health and care services in our society, and to ensure that the human dignity and consideration of children are still the basics for the treatment of the biotechnology law. The big thing needs representatives who put human dignity in the center of absolutely all things. For the Christian People's Party, human dignity is precisely the center, the core, of politics. All human beings are infinitely as much worth and have an inviolable value and rights in terms of just being human. All are equally worth, and none of us are worth more or less than others. Human value is constant, it's not something we can measure. That is why we are proposing changes to the care scheme, because everyone is equally worth it. We know that violations of human dignity are not things of the past. Humans are discriminated against on the basis of gender, age, level of function, ethnicity and sexual orientation. Suppression, exploitation and discrimination are also taking place today, including in our society. Human dignity is under pressure. Some say that the Christian People's Party exaggerates or uses terror propaganda when we warn against a sorting society. I'm very sorry, and it's kind of naive to think that sorting is not a reality. Sorting is happening here and now all over the world, also in our country. Many believe that it is entirely right that the right to life is restricted on the basis of human qualities. We had more rounds of twins away in the last period. It's about sorting when kids don't come to the world just because they're twins. The Christian People's Party is disappointed with the bulk of the population and the government in this matter. In foetal water diagnostics, we soon have the technique of finding all the information about the foetus. The road is wide open for sorting. It is a political responsibility, a Community responsibility, to design ethics for this technique. Without these frameworks, we meet individuals in a way that requires them to make inhuman choices and to have an inhuman responsibility. There is an ethical difference between foetal diagnostics as tests for diseases or conditions that can be treated and tests for the purpose of finding out what is different. Foster water diagnostics under public control must aim to save lives and improve quality of life. Public diagnostics may not be intended to search for so-called defects and defects. The Christian People's Party wants a society that has room for everyone – which gives our society a diversity – and that is not just a quest for the perfect. With this I address the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2698	The representative, Olug V. Bollestad, has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2705	This year's election result gave us a new parliamentary situation. The Christian People's Party has made it clear that they do not want to participate in further talks about government cooperation, but that they want to cooperate with the government on a case-by-case basis. The leader of the Christian People's Party, Knut Arild Hareide, has stated that he hopes he will not capture Erna Solberg's government. At the same time, he has said that he will reach out his hand to everyone, regardless of the color of the party logo. The representative of Bollestad now made it clear that she wants a political breakthrough, and I'm glad to hear that. But I wonder if that means that the Christian People's Party in this Chamber is willing to secure a majority of good proposals that come from non-government parties, for example. in matters relating to children growing up in poverty here in Oslo and in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2710	The Christian People's Party has chosen not to have a cooperation agreement with the government, or to be a cooperation party, but that means that the government comes with politics that are central-friendly, as the Christian People's Party is, of course, we vote for it. If the good proposal comes from the Workers' Party or from other parties, the Christian People's Party will of course assess it against our own policies and vote for what we are in favour of. At the same time, we must have an overview – we are responsible for a total budget, and we will take responsibility for that, but we will, of course, look at both sides.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2715	The government has several care places as its only goal. The goal of the centre party is good care places, and that is why we want to support the rehabilitation of hospital and day-care facilities in line with new construction, regardless of whether there is a local net need for several sites in the short and medium term. In the 2017 government budget, the Christian People's Party was involved in changing this arrangement, but at the same time expressed scepticism that there should only be a net increase in such places. The central party wants to ask a question to the Christian People's Party about whether they want to participate in a proposal that also provides for the rehabilitation of sites where there is no need for the net increase of these sites in the short and medium term.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2722	We know that in the future people will live longer. We'll get older, and they'll get sicker. This means that we will need a diversity of care services and hospitals. Then we are concerned that what we have built, what we have contributed, also needs to be rehabilitated and met a new time. We also have to look at this after 2021. Similarly, we need to secure enough nursing homes at the time that comes, when we know that there are more elderly people than we have today. The Christian People's Party is willing to look at both sides, because otherwise we'll be left with a maintenance seat all the time, and it's neither the municipalities nor the state served.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2727	Let me first congratulate Mr V. Bollestad on her likely to lead the Health and Care Committee. I'm glad there's some experienced there when I'm going in like new. Care is more than medical treatment. It's about love and warmth. When you're hurting, you have to have someone close to you. The care allowance scheme should ensure that seriously ill children are cared for by their mother or father in the bad times. The right-wing Party government, supported by the Left, has cut the care allowance for families with seriously chronically ill children who need continuous supervision and care for more than five years. SV and the Christian People's Party have previously cooperated to ensure children's growing-up conditions. Will the Christian People's Party consider seeking cooperation with the left to help children and families with seriously ill children?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2734	First of all, I would like to thank you for your words and say that I am going to be the head of the Health and Care Committee, and we are going to have a committee that has a good place for new committee members. So to the question: Christian People's Party has made a proposal today about the exact care scheme, and that's because we see and know that very many kids are sick longer than for five years. If you're sick for more than five years or you get a residual – the disease comes back – we know it costs the family a lot. But it also costs society a lot not to care for these, and therefore the Christian People's Party will look at it. Second, we know that if you have a sick child, it's not having enough money in your wallet almost the last time you think about it. If your salary is reduced to 66 pst. And you almost don't get the ends to meet in such a difficult situation, it's pointless, Christian People's Party seems. The third reason we're promoting this is that some of us are going to need help after 18 years of age, especially those who are mentally retarded. For them, we will also look at the care allowance scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2742	In connection with the election this year, a referendum was held in Sørum, where the question was whether you want the municipality of Sørum to join Skedsmo and Fet. The matter aroused great commitment, almost as many voted in the referendum as in the big shot. The result was an overwhelming no, almost 60 pst. voted against. The majority of the local government has decided that they will follow the people's no with an application for the reversal of Storting's decision on coercion. To the Kommunal Report 15 September this year, the representative of Bollestad says that if there are particular points that make it right to review individual matters, they will of course do so. Wants a referendum with over 71 pst. voter participation and nearly 60 pst. no, followed by an application from the local council for reversal, is it a special moment that makes it right to look at a merger again?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2747	The Christian People's Party has not gone to elections to reverse the municipal reform in the same way as the Centre Party has done. When we have said that there must be special reasons to be able to look at it, I can take an example: In the Forsand and Sandnes did not get the local government to say their opinion, and we believe that this is some reason. So the county states that the proceedings have been wrong, and then we're going to join in and look at it. With regard to the matter to which the representative refers in Akershus, I think that it has become a matter that has been adopted, and I want to see the matter before I say that I want to attend and reverse it. There must be special reasons for it to be able to reverse.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2754	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2759	When one today is discussing the throne, it's to look forward. What do we want to use this four-year period to build our country, to make it better for us all? We should use the opportunity to discuss the real differences and not continue the election campaign by black-painting reality and constructing problems bigger than they are. We have to discuss the solutions that exist on the wallpaper, rather than blackpainting the opponent. Building the country is important for us as a nation, but also for a simpler everyday life – creating good housing and work regions, ensuring that business gets its competitiveness strengthened, making our country accessible to everyone who lives here, regardless of whether you have moved here or were born here, no matter where you are on the social path. Meeting the challenges of the future that exist there, with a broad range of business to create values, and that is an important part of this – not leaning on an oil-driven growth that has lifted us in the years 2005–2013, but actually ensuring that business generates values through a wide range of large and small enterprises, both in oil and not least outside. Then it's important, wide political bets that you have to work with. A good and active industrial policy – no, it is not that the government is against an active industrial policy. We need to have good and adapted industrial policies to the different industries, a good tax policy that makes it profitable to operate in Norway, attractive to be in Norway, good investment in research and education and investment in infrastructure, not only in road and rail, ports and airports, but also in digital, with 4G – 5G in the future – fiber and the like. Here we see that the civil side repeatedly found agreement in the years that went on – and we will do it in the future – while the red-green side did not find it. Within the infrastructure, which is an example of how the government's bet has shot speed, there is both a commitment to building new and, not least, to maintaining what we have. It's also part of taking care of our country. We see Norwegian entrepreneurs winning far more contracts now than they did before. This means that contractors have good working conditions and not least good labour. It is important for the government that we also employ the Nordics in this. I'm glad that the visible bet is noticed, and that in the next few years we will realize the National Transport Plan, which the bourgeois side agreed on, but where the opposition split in all directions. I hope, however, that the currently debate on the throne can also bring the opposition together, so that when the national transport plan is to be implemented, it does so with constructive support from the Storting and not with bursting debates. At the same time, we must have respect for taxpayers. Therefore, it is not only a discussion about who grants the most money for a purpose, but also how we ensure that the money is used efficiently. A civil side was also able to gather around a series of reforms that, not least in the next few years, will speed up and show its utility, while the opposition was shattering and arguing. We have to make sure that when we build roads and railways, when we build our hospitals and universities, we do it in a more efficient way than before, so that taxpayers' money is used effectively, but we also get solved common tasks. Then we have to use the market where the market works well. In fibre expansion and 4G, many different governments have stressed that the market should be an important player. With simpler rules from the government and a strong commitment, we see that the market is now responding to a sharp increase in its investment. In 2016, investments amounted to 3 billion. kr higher than before the last government change. That shows the results. I also notice that in today's debate there are many who give the impression that there is no climate policy because not everyone is as saved in the environmental debate as some conservationists. Let's look at the results: over the four years that have been, pointing to where we're going, emissions from the passenger car sector are actually going down and not up. In the national transport plan, a 60 pst cut was made visible by 2030. There is evidence that the horror that some people raise in the change of line in climate is not based on the policies of today’s government. We are building more infrastructure for the charging of zero-emission cars. Some give the impression that one is not doing anything within the shipping industry, while the daily newspaper before the election could report that more than 50 ferries will have battery packages on board in 2020, it is a hydrogen ferry development project, a look at the use of hydrogen trains, the deployment of renewable power now has twice as high a pace as the last 25 years on average, and the effort on trains and urban collective investment is much higher now than ever before. So I can promise that also the effort to reduce unwanted emissions will continue with today's government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2780	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2785	I can promise the Minister for Transport that the Workers' Party will be very constructive in the implementation of the National Transport Plan. But everything doesn't go on rails, unfortunately, literally. In autumn, there have been major problems in train traffic in the East. Thousands of despaired train passengers have been hit – passengers who have arrived late for work or too late for home, or both. The punctuality of NSB passenger trains was the lowest in August and September of many years. Yes, it was so bad that the head of the NSB had to ask for a crisis meeting with the other railway units, and they are what became known very many of them. I understand that there was a meeting before the weekend, and my question to the Minister for Transport is: Can the Minister for Transport promise the travellers that the problems of train traffic in the East are now over, as we have experienced earlier this autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2790	Through the efforts made by the government over several years in the maintenance of the railway, all the prerequisites are present for the problems to become ever smaller and finally to disappear. The punctuality in 2016 was 91 p.m. – above what was the punctuality goal. This is in stark contrast to the same situation – or really a much worse situation – that we had in 2010. There was an alarm and they said that now we cannot even guarantee that the regularity will be present. A fear of collapse in the railroad, according to the then head of the railway station, Elisabeth Enger. The response from the then government was to cut the maintenance bet three years in a row. Today's government has increased the maintenance effort four years in a row. The maturity is now going down and not up. But the challenge is, among other things, that on the Kongswingerbahn you have an overhead contact line from 1951. When today's government wanted to replace it, I have received similar criticism from the Workers' Party because it means that some trains have to stand and there is a bus instead. Now I get criticism that it hasn't been replaced already, so sometimes you have to choose which criticism to promote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2795	I have not criticized the Minister for Transport, I asked him a question. I hope it was a constructive meeting, which I registered was supposed to be on Thursday last week – after the major problems that have been encountered in rail traffic. We've gradually got a lot of units within the railway, which is probably part of what we're seeing now, that there is now a need for a lot of information meetings, because there are a lot of units within the rail-Norway. But my question was simply: what did the meeting mean? What's the situation now? Can travelers in the East now count on the problems that have been solved in the past in the harvest?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2800	There has been no need for many clarification meetings, for the responsibility here is very clear. That's why there was a meeting between Bane NOR and NSB. For all those who run the railway, this is very clear, even though the representative Myrli has for many years refused to realize that it is so clear. If you had also read the media essays that have been after the meeting, you would see that NSB's boss, Geir Isaksen, was out and said he expects this to be settled, because you see that there's work going on just to solve those problems. We're going to make sure there's a further investment in increased appropriations for maintenance. We have reversed the downward trend that we inherited in 2013. There's an upward trend that makes one now for the third, soon to the fourth, year in a row have reduced the decay on the railway rather than it has increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2807	The improvement of E6 in Northern Ireland is a follow-up to the project NTP 2014-2023 of the red-green government. But the bottleneck E6 Sørelva – Borkamo has pushed the government out in time. The centre party has prioritised it where it should have been: the first part of the NTP period. Coordination rv. 77 Mountain and E6 will be effective. The industry in the area has invested 50 million. kr to start construction of the tunnel. The tunnel is completed immediately, thanks to local co-financing. The problem is that the government has pushed the route Sørelva–Borakamo to the extreme of an extended NTP period. Does the Council of State realize that people and businesses in the north feel provoked by this incomprehensible and unwise postponement of E6 Sørelva-Borakamo?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2812	I've traveled a lot on the country's roads in general, but especially on the E6. I started my year as State Council driving E6 from south to north. I ended the period of driving from north to south. What I noticed was a significant change in activity on the road, not just traffic, but civil engineering. When we drove there in 2014, we met local government politicians, businesses, transport companies, etc., who for many years, and many decades, had wanted the work to start. Not only had it been promised once from the previous government, but many times. The problem was that the money didn't come. Some of these sections were also inside the NTP 2010–2019 without the money coming. So it doesn't just help to show that it was in the NTP, when you don't get started. If you now drive E6 through Helgeland, you can see that you are building 16 miles with a new E6, which is not just going to have a speed limit of 80 km/h, but after the first trip in 2014, you were upgraded to the speed limit of 90 km/h, because we saw the potential. There are fewer crossings, there are several level solutions that will make traffic slip better. What we're hearing is that people say you're finally on, including the Mountain. That's why we've got very good confidence on the civil side from the voters to continue that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2818	State Council Solvik-Olsen not only builds bridges, he also wants to build mental bridges, and we're going to contribute to that, with constructive debate. But that requires, among other things, the decisions and strict requests adopted here in the Chamber are also followed up by the Government, not least in the transport sector. I feel that there are many decisions, not least in the transport sector, in terms of climate change, that have not been followed up by state councils, for there are several government councils. For example, I can. refer only rapidly to Decision 19 in relation to the examination of Document 8:71 S for 2015-2016: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a turnover requirement for the use of sustainable biofuels in the marine fuel.’ This is just one of them, there are many, many more. I can also mention Decision 753 concerning the treatment of Document 8:69 S for 2016-2017, which is waiting for follow-up; it concerns public acquisitions and palm oil. Much of this belongs to the other state councils, under the environment and industry, but is it not a little disrespectful to the majority of the population that environmental decisions, especially in the transport sector, are not followed up by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2830	I can promise that the decisions taken by the Storting, especially in the transport sector, which are my department, but also in general in the government, will be followed up. Sometimes it goes very fast because it's relatively simple, sometimes more work is needed because it's quite big systems that need to be put in place. Sometimes the Stortinget asks more for an investigation than for an implementation, in order for the Stortinget to be better informed of a decision before they reach a final decision. When we look at what has been done in the environmental field within, for example, I believe that there is no basis for believing that you are not taking the issue seriously, nor that you are not doing anything about it. When you look at the bet that takes place on the railway, where only one in 2017 granted 8 billion. kr more to expand the infrastructure and to maintain it, compared with when the government took over in 2013, there is a strong commitment. In cities, the increase is almost threefold. The fact that in 2020 there will be about 50 ferries with battery packs, which the Workers' Party traveled around and gave the impression that they would only start with if they won the election in 2017, shows that there has been a lot of happening. But are we on target? No, by no means. Therefore, good cooperation in big business and government is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2839	The treatment of the national transport plan almost ended in a tie between road and rail, and representatives of the Progress Party, both State Secretaries and representatives of bigots, would in the election campaign call the Progress Party a railway party. They've learned a lot, to say it like that. The left in the South Trøndelag went to the choice on faster, more frequent and cheaper bus and train. Price has e.g. have been a challenge on some routes. Many people experience the price of a train trip as high in relation to other modes of travel, such as car, bus and even airplanes. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State see the same challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2848	Of course, the lower the price, the more people want it, everything else is similar. At the same time, it is important to think about how a person uses scarce resources – whether to build a better offer, or whether to reduce the price of existing offers. And there's a bit of the good discussion that the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party have had, between government and greatness, to look at how we spend our money as best we can. What we do, among other things, has been obtained, is to reduce the price of a monthly card by about 20 pst. – a perfectly obvious left-wing issue – while we spend more money than ever before building railway infrastructure. In addition, we have agreed on a reform that allows me to think that we can build infrastructure better and cheaper over time. So here we have a cooperation on a broad front. So there's part of the question that I see I'm not going to be able to answer, and it's about alternative means of transport, and in cities and cities, the bus will be a good alternative for many. In other places the car will be the primary one, and then we have to make sure that the car is as emission-free as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2857	Transport policy has been renewed, reinforced and raised to a new level in the last four years, including: due to good cooperation between the non-socialist parties. Transport solutions have also become better, more efficient and more modern. At the same time, we see that there are new technologies and new opportunities that also give us some challenges we couldn't imagine just a few years ago. In our opinion, we must meet offensively. Uber is the result of that development. Christian People's Party wishes to welcome new platforms, including Uber, but then we must also have regulations that ensure good offers throughout the country. Maybe we also have to see the country a little differently because the needs are different. In cities like Oslo, the taxi code can be softened, while in the districts it is important to maintain systems that ensure today’s taxi transport. How will the Council of State deal with companies like Uber, while the taxi offer in the districts is at least as good as it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2872	There's a lot of exciting happening because the world gets new technology. Some of what I think we agree on is for example. to look at the use of hydrogen trains, more electric buses and electric cars etc. It'll solve a lot of problems. In the case of digitisation in the transport sector, e.g.: by the fact that a platform different from what we are used to is used by a taxi company such as Uber, it has created challenges because they are at the forefront of developing technologies that consumers want. They also see the possibility of providing the service better and cheaper than the traditional market has done. At the same time, we know, from our own experience, after visiting the authorities in e.g. California, that some places where Uber goes in, you see a reduction in wages, you see employment contracts without special pension rights, and you see that the taxi market outside the cities is more or less collapsing because people can no longer live on it. We need to ensure that we have a good taxi offer across the country, that we take over the opportunities that innovation has, while maintaining a good labour market for those who run the industry, and we need to do that together.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2881	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2886	The aim of the Workers' Party is a society that promotes good health for all and that prevents disease. It's about who we are, who we want to be, both as a community and as an individual. When the government invites the Storting to cooperate to create a sustainable welfare society, we have to look at how we have accomplished that task in the last four years. We cannot continue to spend as much oil money at the same time as the efforts in the areas with the greatest challenges are as it has been. We're getting older, and the inequalities are increasing. In 2016, almost 60,000 children were born in Norway. There are 60,000 small lives to be seen, which are to be given security, love and opportunities. The most important thing we do in this hall for the health of people, we do long before they get sick, and it requires something of us as politicians. During this ageing period, the Workers' Party will continue to work for our common healthcare. We will work to ensure that children, young people, prevention and public health receive as much attention as hospitals, waiting times and treatment of various diseases. Norway needs a public health policy that is adapted to the time we live and that embraces the mental and physical health of people. We know a lot about what makes us sick. We have more diseases in the years that come within what we call the non-infectious diseases – diabetes, cancer, coal and cardiovascular diseases. We also know that more people will struggle with their mental health, and we know that too many people experience bullying in school, violence and abuse in close relationships. This is about social diseases, it's about public health. We know that the number of miscarriages is almost doubled in seven years, and we also know that one in four doesn't complete further education. That's where the big relationship exists, and that's where the big relationship has to be broken. In that case, we cannot continue to limit the prevention effort to the extent that it has done. An invitation to move 30 minutes a day is very good, but it's too small, and it's too puzzled. When the Right-Fremskritsparte government presented its ten-point plan for health policy in mid-August, neither public health nor prevention was mentioned in a single word. Not one point in that list was explored on the basis of good health. The World Health Organization says that we are witnessing an epidemic that spreads to every country. 60 pst. of all deaths in the world are now due to these non-infectious diseases. In Norway, the figure is close to 80pst, and there are still clear social differences in the population. It is well documented that prevention and, in particular, the wide range of measures that reach all are the ones that provide the most health for the money and the greatest welfare gain. Early efforts are necessary, and therefore during this period the Workers' Party will have a special focus on children and young people. The government is too passive. It does not follow the good advice and it does not take advantage of these large, wide-ranging Community arenas. You're simply saying no to what works the most. We can't afford that. We in the Workers' Party will seek the widest possible cooperation in Stortinget to keep healthy people – physical activity in school, school food, mental health in school, an extended school health service that hits the students where they are, and a forward-looking health policy. It shall prevent, provide opportunities and not just repair.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2903	Norway is and will be a safe and good country to live in. We have a good school, we have a health service that is among the best in the world, we have low unemployment. Throughout generations, we have built a welfare society that we can be proud of, and that we have a great task and a great responsibility to carry on. The moral standard of a society is best measured by how we treat those who have the most difficulty. That is why the Right Party government prioritises the work against violence in close relations and violence against children. The first action plan against violence and abuse was adopted in Stortinget in the previous period. Never before has such a binding plan been put forward in this area. Our goal is that no child should experience violence and abuse. Norway should be a safe and good country to live in for everyone. In the next few years, we will continue to strengthen our efforts for those who need it the most. Security is important to all of us, including those over 54,000 children who receive assistance from child protection. 54 000 – there are as many people living in the municipality of Skedsmo. Many of these children receive help by providing their parents with guidance, advice and security in their parenting role and by providing them with the necessary relief. In the right, we are pleased that the government is paying particular attention to prevention and early intervention. It is important for many families, and it can keep many families together. But some children experience having to move from their parents, from their families or from their local communities to new families and new caregivers who can provide them with security when the situation at home is most insecure. Child protection should always be a last resort, but it is an important and absolutely necessary option for some. Each of these more than 54,000 children need to know that we're going to be there for them, and that they have an important voice, which we're going to listen to. Child protection is one of the most important services we have to help and secure vulnerable children, but also to help families. At the end of the previous ageing period, we adopted a child protection reform. It shall contribute to strengthening the ability of municipalities to provide better assistance. More children and families shall be entitled to timely assistance. During this period, we will continue to strengthen the ability of local authorities to prevent and enhance their skills. Even the most competent professional, or perhaps the most competent, needs colleagues to give advice and to relieve. Both the children and the professionals deserve us to put up with child protection in a way that gives them that. We need the robust municipalities that can meet the needs. In the years to come, we need to strengthen significantly the efforts of municipal child protection, and through the reform of the municipality, we are creating larger professional environments in the important child protection. When the Center Party's Marit Arnstad earlier today responded to a line on child protection, I interpreted her answer so that the challenges of child protection have nothing to do with the community reform. It is sad that the Centre Party continues its backward-looking attitude to the absolutely necessary reforms when the changes are so necessary to ensure better services for those who need it the most. Arnstad said something like it must then be fully possible to give tasks to the municipalities without thinking about structure. But we've been doing that for almost 50 years. This has resulted in a staggering number of intercommunal companies, which solve completely basic tasks for the municipalities, more or less beyond the reach of the elected local government. Should we still have as the Center Party wants, local democracy would be confused. Luckily, this does not happen, because the voters in this election have renewed confidence in those parties who see that a completely necessary municipal reform ensures the most important welfare services, and that local democracy will continue to flourish and grow. Child protection should and should be one of the main tasks of the municipalities. Then we need to ensure that the professional environments are good enough to ensure the continuity of employees, the possibility of professional development, and that the case handlers have the opportunity to have an arm's length distance, so that the citizens do not lose confidence because the professional environment is too small. Many small municipalities have few jobs in their child protection. Child protection is so important that the Stortinget recently adopted a report on the state of child protection by all local authorities each year. For the Right, security is primarily about neither of us being reduced to being a little piece in a big puzzle, but that each of us is the most important piece in the puzzle on the day we need help. Whether it is important in many areas is at least crucial for children and young people in the field of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2924	President! I would like to begin by congratulating the Vice-President and the entire presidency, and also look forward to good cooperation with them. The people have spoken. In the election, the current government was given a mandate to continue. That means two things: the people are satisfied with how the country has been governed for four years, and the people want it to continue. There has been no lack of warnings from the opposition, and in particular the Workers' Party has blackened the situation. The black paint has been and has been completely removed from the loose air, and we see the result. Traditionally, the Workers' Party has had a high level of credibility in working life issues, but now it is clear that they no longer have it. The voters see that the government has run the labour market through turbulent times, through a significant oil crisis with a large fall in oil prices, and the government has done so with great luck. We see that unemployment falls monthly despite challenging times. The Nav unemployment rate shows that the unemployment rate has fallen steadily, and that it is now down to approx. 2.5 pst. It's down from 2.8 pst. a year ago. It is particularly gratifying that the so-called petroleum states have the greatest rainfall. But what's also important is to talk about getting more people to work. Because there are still too many people who are out of work by people of pre-employment age. Then it is not a simple act that can be taken, but a wide range of instruments – from what education policy we are pursuing, whether we have a education policy where knowledge is at the heart, whether we have a transport policy where people can quickly and easily get to and from work, where the goods can get out as quickly as possible where they are going, and in a reasonable way, what the level of taxation we have. Fortunately, the voters clearly rejected the Workers' Party's wish for massive tax increases for residents and businesses. We see the results: unemployment is falling, new jobs are created, and there is optimism in the world of work. But there are still several important steps we need to take. One concerns the criminality of working life. It is a challenge, and there is a lot of evidence that there will also be a significant challenge for years to come. Societies today experience cross-border crime at many levels, and this affects working life. Of course, for the individual who is exposed to this, it is extremely serious, but it is also serious for all the serious actors out there. Fortunately, most Norwegian companies operate well and operate according to the book and the rules of the game and have a fair competition. But we see that this is under pressure, and then I'm very happy that the government has focused on this in recent years and is still going to have it in the years to come. The budgets for combating labour-life crime have increased, the penalties are tightened, new centres are established, the cooperation between the different control modes is better, we have addressed challenges that some public authorities previously had to put on information that they could not necessarily share with others. But there's still a lot left, and there I'm glad the government is clear. When we also modernised the Working Environment Act in the previous period, we got a lot of criticism. But what we wanted to do was to get a work environment law that was adapted to the work life we have today, the needs people and businesses actually have today. Because it's the way society changes, and then it might also make sense to give some more flexibility within the external framework. That's what we did. Although the opposite could be seen in the election campaign and in the last four-year period, the external frameworks are the same, but we have opened up more flexibility where both parties, both employers and employees, want to do so. A lot shows that that policy was actually right, too, and that a lot of the scare propaganda went wrong. So I look forward to the future also for Norwegian working life, because we have a government that has shown action and made sure that we create new jobs and at the same time preserve those we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2942	The centre party does not measure its industrial policy only in terms of the high or low unemployment rate. The centre party is busy pursuing a business policy that provides high value creation and ensures construction throughout Norway. The policy must also ensure the highest possible export income. At a time when political change of words almost drowns in festivities about green shifts, marine space and innovation, I think it would be better to raise words like trade balance, local ownership and national control. The most important thing, though, is not what one says, but what one does. ‘Well done’ must definitely be valued higher than ‘well said’. One example is the plan that a so-called green investment fund, renewable AS. Two years have now passed since the Storting decided on this. After two years, we only know that this is going to be in Stavanger. Most of the other stuff is in blue-blue. Well said, but still done. Status so far: Zero new workspaces, zero value creation. The future industries in Norway must be based on the resources available to us. Norway is rich in resources. For the Central Party, one of the main issues is ensuring national control of these resources: national control of the fish, national control of the land, national control of the hydropower, national control of the forest, national control of the infrastructure, national ownership of major enterprises in Norway. Most of the work done in Norway, there are some other places in the world that are willing to do for less pay than the pay in Norway. The centre party believes it is important that work done in Norway should be done with Norwegian salaries. When we look at more and more tasks to others, we lose both competence and income. Therefore, the fight for Norwegian workers on land, at sea and in the air will be a priority for the Centre Party during this period. The centre party thinks we need to strengthen preparedness in Norway. We don't have to get naïve. We've made ourselves addicted to others. Because it is not a good idea to buy prison places abroad in the place to secure jobs in Norway. There is no good idea of importing more and more food from abroad into place to secure the use of the land in Norway and jobs in dairies, slaughterhouses and other food industries. And it's not a good idea to use cheap foreign labour on boats in Norwegian waters to secure Norwegian seafarers. Cheapest for all fields may be very expensive in sum. In the option, the center part gained an increase in resolution, leading to 4.8 pst. and from 10 to 19 representatives. Yes, our progress – the progress of the Centre Party – is almost as great as the strong decline experienced by the government parties and the supporting parties. It will affect the policies that are being pursued, and it will provide a policy that sees the whole country more closely. It will provide a policy that strengthens the fight against increased bureaucracy, and it will make it harder for the government to implement new non-social taxes. The country needs a more active industrial policy. The central party will take a leadership to ensure increased value creation, to secure jobs for people in Norway, to secure Norwegian working conditions for work in Norway and national control of natural resources. Because the Center Party believes in Norway as a whole, and the election gave us increased power in that fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2961	We live in a time of great challenges both nationally and globally. Climate change, a global refugee crisis and a worrying international situation require leadership and cooperation. Here at home goes a lot in the right direction. Freedom goes down, growth goes up, and more people come to work. It is important for people's security in everyday life and essential for a sustainable well-being for the future. We're going to take care of Norway as the world's best country to live in, a country where trust between people is great, and where the differences are small. If we are to succeed in the years to come, we must continue to carry out the necessary reforms. The alternative to change is not that things become like it was, but a decline. Oil revenues will gradually decline, and health and care expenditure will rise. Fewer active workers will finance the well-being of several older people. This means that we need to continue the transformation of the Norwegian economy, so that we create more secure jobs. We have to reinforce the green shift. Our most important job is to help create more jobs, and to increase the qualification of new jobs. Norway is one of the most advanced countries in digitisation in Europe. That's good. The use of new technologies enables Norwegian jobs to become more competitive, and jobs that were previously moved out of Norway can be moved home. New digital services and a more innovative public sector allow us to move resources from administration to health care and school. The use of welfare technologies creates security for users and relatives, and it helps to help competent people in health and care more. When we took over in 2013, the digitisation effort, coordination and political leadership were lacking. We have implemented a digital pace shift in the state, improved the link between digitisation in the state and the municipality, contributed to the emergence of welfare technology not only in showrooms, but in real spaces in people's homes, and facilitated the increased use of technology in businesses. And we're going to keep doing that. Work must be intensified. At the same time, however, we also need to raise our skills, help more people qualify for new jobs, and help those who have fallen out to get back to work. This is important for the security of society, but also for ensuring a sustainable well-being for the future. In the last period, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right began many important reforms. On the proposal of the Left and Christian People's Party, we are now implementing a regional reform. We have adapted the state county offices to the elected regions. We started the community reform, which is to ensure that people will also receive good services where they live in the future. If we are to preserve the Norwegian welfare municipalities, we cannot doubt a municipal structure from 1960. We need to ensure strong professional environments that can provide people with good services. We've come beyond what I think most thought was possible. One in three will live in a new municipality in 2020. The Left, Christian People's Party, Right and Advance Party agreed with us that the municipal reform will continue during this period. It is important, because the option to stronger municipalities is a stronger state, with more centralisation and less local autonomy. Now it is important that those who are going to do the job of building new municipalities have the freedom to do the important job. Local and regional reform is part of the cooperation parties' efforts to decentralise power, a work that will continue during this period. Part of this is also the agreement we have with the Left to move government jobs from Oslo to competence environments elsewhere in the country. In four years we have moved out or decided to set up over 700 new jobs, while in eight years the red-greens have been able to move only 557 jobs out of the Oslo labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2982	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2987	The right-wing government colleague, the Progress Party, by parliamentary leader Limi, explained earlier today in the Stortingen on property taxes and said that several municipalities have introduced property taxes without having to do so. I just assume that the Council of State has been brought together and I agree with this statement from the government colleague Progress Party. In that case, I would like to ask: What municipalities do the Council of State think this is about? Could be e.g. Moss, it could be e.g. Eidsberg, or are there other municipalities that appear on the list after this statement from the government colleague Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e2992	I agree with Mr Limi that property tax is an unsocial tax. It is a tax that goes beyond personal income. There may be various reasons why municipalities introduce property taxes. We have significantly strengthened the municipal economy in this four-year period, even more than the red-greens did in eight years. The number of municipalities at ROBEK is almost halved during this government period, so the municipal economy is solid. If I were to point to one municipality, I'd point to Oslo. There, for many years, the bourgeois parties showed that they had Norway’s best school, that they had a well-developed welfare offer, while not having property taxes. But as I said, this is part of local democracy, and it's the local politicians who decide whether to have property taxes or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3003	I understand that the Council of States is not willing to talk about e.g. Moss and Eidsberg, who also have property taxes. He refers to other things and does not answer the question. But to follow up a little: When the government colleague Progress Party now says that they will remove the possibility for municipalities to collect property taxes, they will also do so without the municipalities being compensated for it. It's not a question of numbers, it's a question of numbers. 12 B.C.E. kr. At least we can agree that it's a good chance money we're talking about. I assume once again that the government parties are fairly coordinated when they express themselves. Then I would like to ask: When can the municipalities expect such a proposal to remove the possibility to collect property taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3010	I believe that the representative and other workers' party representatives also asked that question before the elections. My answer is the same today as it was before the election: the right has not gone to the choice to have any prohibition on property taxes. This is part of local democracy. Right-wing local politicians often argue against property taxes, or for reduced property taxes, because there is an unsocial tax. That the Progress Party has a different view, I respect. A representative from the Workers' Party, who has always ruled with other parties, knows that the parties may have slightly different program proposals in this type of case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3015	The municipal reform, with the decisions taken so far, has cost between 5 and 6 billion. kr for the period 2014-2019, shows a research report recently presented by Kommunal Report. There are large amounts, which are paid through reduced frameworks to the rest of Municipality-Norway, and will necessarily have consequences for the provision of services to people in those municipalities. We know that the Ministry of Local Affairs operates with lower numbers, but then the internal work of the municipalities and a number of grant schemes is not included. In its programme, the right-hand side says that the municipal reform should continue during the ageing period. They will take the initiative in further mergers and propose that coercive action can also be taken in the context of mergers. Can the Council of State confirm that the government will continue to use coercion as a means of bringing the municipalities together in this process? And if so, how much financial resources is the government willing to use to get through its ambitions to clean up even more municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3020	I'm a little surprised that the Center Party is not more concerned with the services we're going to provide to our citizens – to the most vulnerable of us, who need professionals, to those who need psychologists, to all the municipalities that needed more professionals in their planning and building office. This is what the community reform is all about. It's about how to ensure good services to the inhabitants where they live, even in the future. It is soon time that the Central Party saw that the alternative to strong municipalities is centralisation and a stronger state. It will be less local self-government. I'm going to continue to fight to preserve the Norwegian welfare municipalities with great responsibility, with professionals who can help those who need it the most. And yes, we have a good financial framework. The report referred to – the representative knows – is written by people who are strong opponents of the municipal reform, and the sum is significantly lower. But yes, we have used economic instruments. It's been necessary. That's right. And it creates stronger welfare municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3027	No government has had more money or spent more money than this government. Nevertheless, we have seen many petty cuts to people who are destitute and disadvantaged. The Council of State is responsible for one of them, and that is the housing allowance. Bout poisons have increased, and we have become more people, yet we spend less money on housing support now than we did in 2009, and in 2017 there are 10,000 fewer people who get housing support than last year. The majority of them are disabled who have fallen out of the scheme. I record that the Council of State has been out and said that they have strengthened the housing support. Yes, there are some minor changes that everyone has agreed on. But can the Council of State explain how it is possible to strengthen housing support when you spend less money and get fewer, while at the same time boute poisons are increasing, we are growing more in this country, and those who have at least kept still in income for several years?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3034	It is true that the government has spent some more oil money in this period, and it surprises me if SV disagrees that it was right to spend money in a situation where the oil revenues fell from 120 dollars to 30-40 dollars the barrel and 50,000 people lost their job. We're proud of the job we've done in the previous four years. Unemployment is falling, more people are coming to work, and economists both in Norway and internationally have thought it was right. In the case of housing support, this government has corrected the defects and weaknesses for which SV has a responsibility. It's about the price regulation mechanism, we've made sure that people in the book collective get housing support, and we've made sure that families of children get more housing support. We have strengthened and corrected the housing support, and today there are almost half as many homeless people as it was when SV put in government. The number of children who are homeless has fallen by 67 pst. The policy is a good one.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3042	I heard in the posts of the Council of State many good invitations to the Left. The Council of State also mentioned that the Left and Christian People's Party has been involved in facilitating regional reform, among others. I heard the ‘green shift’, the ‘digitalisation’ and the ‘regional reform’. It was also about showrooms. I turn my eyes to the Stavanger region, or the Greater Stavanger, which they now like to call themselves. Many municipalities have joined forces on a digital scale. I have registered that the government has invited you to a smart city conference. Societal infrastructure is more and more digitally managed. The electricity grid, in the case of water, concerns more and more in the field of collective and commercial transport. The question is whether this should only be a major urban effort – we do not have so many large cities in Norway – or whether we can establish smart regions or smart counties in any way in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3047	Let me just say first that we've been working very well with both the Christian People's Party and the Left for the whole of the last four years. We have produced good results, and I am absolutely convinced that we are doing each other better – the policy is getting better. We are concerned that we now need to speed up digitisation in Kommune-Norway. A lot has been done in the country, now we have to make a better connection between what is done in the state and what is happening in the municipalities. The population does not relate to levels of government, they relate to services. This is why it is so important that the Minister of Health is now working to see healthcare in the context. We have now started a cooperation with the KS, where we put state money into a large pot, where the municipalities are going to put money in the pot, and where we are going to help municipalities that can be digital locomotives, get development funds that the other municipalities pay back when they use the services. And yes, there are strong environments also in many districts, and strong counties and regions can also be locomotives. We need better cooperation to digitize the municipality of Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3058	Long seagoing time in local politics has shown me that things take time – the three ts. I have been involved in various ways in dealing with both local and regional reforms, and everything has gone wrong. I want to praise the Council of State, because he has really been in the storm even though it has blown the north wind from all sides, because he really wants something. We know that an organisation to develop needs to develop dynamically. The Christian People's Party, along with the Left, has been incredibly busy and a driver to get to these regions. That's what they said. The main objective of this is to transfer democratic tasks from the state down to the nearest possible popularly elected level. Politicians will be allowed to take decisions taken today by the state bureaucracy. Then there's been a discussion about borders, and we know that the borderline was not optimal. Does the Council of State see the borders drawn in the regional reform today as final?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3065	Let me first thank you for nice words. I look forward to working with both the representative Torhild Bransdal and all the others who have taken a line. There will be exciting debates in the years to come. Regional reform is a very good example of cooperation between the Left, the Christian People's Party and the government parties. The government parties initially believed that we could cope with two levels of government, but with the background of the commitment of the Left and Christian People's Party, we are now carrying out the regional reform. We have set up an expert committee to look at new tasks for the regions, so that we can decentralize more power to elected levels. I agree that the borderline is not optimal. That might not be so weird. When you've had the same borderline for over 160 years and society has changed, that means we also have to look at the boundaries of the future. But we have to start from the agreement we have between the four parties, implement it, and then of course we have to have an open mind and see if we can get more optimal borderlines for the future, in dialogue with both the new states and the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3074	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3079	The Labour Party wants Norway to be the most important of its policies. I am therefore pleased that one of the most important issues of our time — the work of a more climate-friendly society — has been so central to the debate today. The climate crisis is now here. It's going to go up by more and more. The awareness that we need to take clear action – now – if we are to be able to sustain life on earth as we know it in the future, is increasingly strong. But such recognition obligates. Taking care of the planet's climate is a shared responsibility for humanity. Work must be global, regional, national and local. Few questions call for long-term political leadership like this. Globally, we must contribute to fulfilling the Paris Agreement. To that end, we must build on the will for collective action represented by the agreement. Regionally, we need to advance cooperation with the EU in this area. There have been many good words here, but a little less action so far. Together with the EU, we must achieve the target of 40 pst. emissions cut by 2030. However, our international contribution should not prevent us from having strong, own ambitions for climate change at home. We're going to work out, but we're going to do our work here at home. At the same time, we need to adapt to the climate change that is already here, and in this work, municipalities play a very important role. Norway must take a clear lead at all these levels. At all levels, we must be strategic, ambitious and impatient in climate policy. This is a value question. It's also a very central economic issue, closely related to the big question of what we're going to live on in the future in this country. With good and targeted policies, technological change can help us to make the transition to the low-carbon society much easier. We are in the middle of what has been described as the fourth industrial revolution. The concept plays on how a wide range of technological breakthroughs in many different sectors are now beginning to play together and provide synergies that we could hardly know a few years ago. Digitalisation, automation, machine learning, new materials and new forms of production interact with new possibilities for producing and storing clean energy. The sharing and circular economy gives us new opportunities to use resources much more rationally. For example, we've only seen the beginning of a revolution in the transport sector. Passenger cars have been in front – heavy transport and ship traffic are coming after. Combined with good collective solutions, this is one of the most important areas of further internal emissions reduction in Norway. In many of these areas, Norway has a comparative advantage. But it's not enough that they're there – we also have to use them, actively, together. Our foremost comparative advantage, however, is our ability to put ourselves into action – business, working life and the public sector on the same team. The Norwegian model has proved very robust and well suited to implementing targeted conversions in a way that avoids people being put on the sidelines. In this way, we can combine responsible and sustainable growth with inclusive growth. We've done it before, and we can do it again. The choice is not whether or not we have to go through this transition – we have to, sooner or later. The question is whether we take it now as we have the best starting point, or whether we wait until we can no longer avoid it. Climate change will fundamentally change the framework conditions for the Norwegian economy. It is therefore good that the government has now reduced a sample to assess Norway’s economic climate risk. We are also wise to look at what is being done in several of our major cities in the climate field. In my hometown, Oslo, the City Council has taken important, comprehensive action in this field, and the results are already being shown. They have ensured better collective solutions, provision for bicycles and corridors and a dynamic price system in the bombing process. The last oil burners will leave Oslo's old townyards by 2020. Urban development is to be seen in a close context with the provision of collective services. The Labour Party will support this development in our big cities by going in for 70 pst. State aid for further collective development. Oslo has also introduced annual climate budgets. In the Labour Party, we believe that this is an example of follow-up – only in this way will we be fully illustrated how decisions in different sectors affect each other. The Workers' Party is a technology-optimistic environmental party. The challenges are great, but they are also the opportunities. I look forward to good cooperation with everyone in this room who is concerned about these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3111	We have put behind us a election campaign and a election that gave the Right, the Advance Party and the Cooperation Parties renewed confidence. The voters have shown through the election that they have confidence in our promises, and they have seen that we kept what we promised in the previous election campaign and in the government. In the right-wing government, it has been clear that modernisation of the public sector was necessary and that reforms have been necessary, not to change Norway, but because Norway has changed, and the expectations of those living in Norway have also changed. Of course, this has been difficult matters, but we have been in the storm, and our Prime Minister has been a cohesive and secure leader of the country. We have set behind us a period when we experienced a sharp fall in the oil price, where 50 000 jobs in private business were lost, and a migration crisis. The citizens are entitled to the same good municipal services if they live in the city or the countryside. They are entitled to a competent police officer who can meet you where you are going, who can secure your security, and not least a police officer who has an investigation environment that makes them better equipped to detect serious crime. The police of the future are not a loner's office that is closed to large parts of the day. Our priorities have given us 1,800 more police personnel, new digital equipment and not least more police cars. Now the response time goes down, and the clearance rate goes up. In the Nordic countries, the voters have also given confidence to the Right and the Advance Party – we have retained our four mandates from the county. The right has talked about the Right Policy and not driven by black paint. We have shown that things are going well in Northern Ireland, and the government has delivered the policy that many of our voters want. When visiting companies and talking to individuals, there are almost two things that have been asked: make sure that the road is built, so that our goods come out on the market, and remove the unfair taxes on wealth. No one said they wanted a tax bill of at least 15 billion. kr, as the Workers' Party promised them. The right of the government has delivered. The share of transport appropriations to the north has increased from 14 pst. for over 21 pst. Once I've driven through Northernland in this election campaign, it's really smelled asphalt. We have lowered taxes and taxes that help create new local jobs. Building and maintaining roads and roads and having a business-friendly tax policy are probably the main means of living and working in District Norway. Then I can't get away from the Center Party and their description through the election campaign of a government that operates centralisation policy. They have made it appear that centralisation is something that started in 2013. In fact, I think that we in the Norwegian National Assembly have a responsibility to mention this concept with a more accurate description. Centralisation or urbanisation led to speed in Norway already during the industrial revolution and when agriculture in the 1800s required fewer hands in agriculture and more hands in urban factories. This trend has continued and will continue. A lot of money is invested in new technology. This means that some jobs are disappearing, while new jobs are coming. The Left Party Government has decided to move out and establish 700 State jobs outside the Oslo region, towards the 200 of the Centre Party in the last government period. But it's clearly a challenge how we're going to work to make districts get a greater share of population growth in the future. Since 2007, Nordland has had a population growth of 3.1pst., while the country as a whole has had a population growth of 12.5pst. Nordland has a miniature business life in Norway: oil and gas industry, energy production, mineral industry, maritime food and supply and yard industry that generates large export values to its economy. In addition to tourism, agriculture and food production, this is one of the most important for growth and jobs in the district of Norway. But then we have to have a policy that says yes to these industries. I would also like to remind you that Nordlands companies exported goods for 20.6 billion. kr to EEA country last year. This says a lot about the importance of the EEA Agreement, and the right will always be a guarantor of this important cooperation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3126	I want to work for a better Norway – a safe country with a close and strong police force, with good preparedness, for a fair country where each individual citizen can get his conflicts tried in the legal system regardless of the size of his wallet, a country with little differences where one should have equal opportunities to create a good life regardless of whether the father is a director or his incarceration, where society comes to grips with when one is unable to create a good growth for their young, where we see each other and help each other when we see that young people grow up with intoxication, choice or abuse, where we avert instead of tea, where we protect ourselves about values like community, people's rights and openness. I thought the speech of the throne gave a good and tidy description of the country and some challenges we face. But I have no ambitions, especially when it comes to the follow-up of July 22. The work on strengthening Norwegian preparedness and the country's security seemed to me to be getting too little space. It was reduced to an emergency centre that should have been completed in the previous ageing period, but as the government now promises to be finished by 2020. 2020 is not a day too early. Some of the most important things we do in the Storting are to work for people's security. There's security for or in work, security for our kids to be well at school and learn, security for one to get needed health care when one needs it. I think, which is supposed to be in particular in the field of justice during this period, that security must be our common guide to the political work we are going to do. We have to ask ourselves whether the decisions we make in this room lead to strengthening or weakening the security of people. Tomorrow's crime scene is demanding. Crime is changing and going much more online. We have no choice but to enable us to meet this. It is about resources, competences, equipment and political will. When we talk about child abuse, illegal sharing of images on the Internet, or organised criminal networks that run with profit crime, or threaten the country and our security, it is unfortunately a common denominator that we hang after. In our visit, I visited the Oslo Police Department and talked to those responsible in the Mortgage Department, and they told us that the extent of online assault material is so large that we're not even close to getting a little bit of it. It worries me, and I think Norway can do better. "In some periods we whiped people, cut limbs off of them, or shot them. Now we take the time from them in closed rooms," wrote Nils Christie, social scientist and criminologist. This design has been repeated many times, but rarely has it been more accurate than now. This summer I visited Telemark prison, and the story from them added there that a now almost drive with storage of their inserts, that they cut heavily in all kinds of program operations, worries me. The government has been feeding the criminal services for four years, and cutta has led to a significant weakening of the content and recovery. The Labour Party will have a worthy and functioning criminal welfare policy, not because we should be kind, but because it is tricked because the content of the soning prevents new crime, prevents insecurity. Norway is a country with great potential. The government is sending Norwegian residents out of the country instead of building prisons here. It's short-term and a bad priority. Bureaucracies in the Police Directorate are increasing, while there are still too few policemen out there in Norwegian towns and villages. The government has still not delivered on the large emergency investments. Still, only plans. Investments must be put in place. Norway can do better. The Labour Party shall take responsibility for justice policy. We must contribute constructively, but we must also be clear about the policies which I believe are taking the country in the wrong direction. We should be a watchdog for a justice policy that takes Norway seriously, which is knowledge-based and forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3145	Today, at the beginning of a new ageing period, we must first and foremost look forward – while it is natural to reflect a little over the period we have left behind. We have been through four demanding years of major and rapid changes: security policy with dramatic events in our close neighbourhood in Europe, violations of international law, a series of terrorist attacks and a refugee and migration crisis. We have seen the emergence of populism and political extremism testing cohesion in Europe and the democratic values under pressure. Economically, we have experienced a dramatic fall in the oil price that has challenged important industries in this country, threatened jobs and reduced revenues to the state. Both the government and the Grand Duchy have been tested, and we have been able to make important, wide-ranging settlements in response to major challenges for the country. It's a value it's important to keep going. There is reason to say that the government has steered safely through these demanding times. In many parts of the country, unemployment is now record low. For politics works, things are going well in District Norway – like for example. in Northern Trøndelag, where the right also appeared at the election. Optimism and belief in the future characterize business in the state. Major district industries such as fisheries, aquaculture, agriculture and tourism are growing. Now, the pioneer region of Trøndelag joins to create even stronger growth power in the region. It is also gratifying that the time off goes down in those parts of the country that got the most marked oil price drop. Growth is rising, more jobs are created, and it shows that it was right for the government to stimulate the economy to counteract the consequences of the oil price drop by investing more in education, research and transport and ensuring a safe transition for those who lost their jobs. Turning down to new growth has succeeded, not only because we increased the use of money, but also because we were in the process of a necessary conversion into the Norwegian economy when the oil price fall hit us. I am proud of the job that the government has done to manage safely in combination with implementing an ambitious change agenda, and we have achieved this through good and constructive cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party. Now that the economy is on its way up, it's time to give less gas. Both the interest rate and the interest rate must be spared. Holding back on fiscal policy will be one of the most important steps to ensure new jobs in the future, and as in business, we still need to have full pressure on the necessary conversion in the public sector as well. Creating a sustainable welfare society is the main objective of the government. If we're to succeed, we have to solve some basic challenges. As the revenues from the petroleum sector decline, the economic space for action is reduced. Too many are outside the labour market, with the challenges it poses for individuals, for the family and for society. If we are to secure well-being, more people need to get to work, and more people need to work longer. Then more young people will have to succeed in school and gain the necessary skills. The better we're growing up, the better we'll stand rusty. We must avoid exclusion from the labour market and ensure that sick leave goes down. Older people must also be given the opportunity to be active with and participate longer. At the same time, we need to ensure good framework conditions for growth and continue to invest in transport, knowledge and innovation. We need to set up taxes and taxes so that companies can create more jobs. The green shift must not give a red bottom line. Choosing environmentally friendly has to pay off. For it is the value of work and profits in enterprises that finance well-being. Then we need more jobs that contribute to the state budget. We have to create more, not more treasure. As a trade nation, it is also important to ensure access to important markets outside. To the right is the guarantor of the EEA Agreement and of international trade agreements providing for the best possible conditions for the export of Norwegian goods and services. Our task is to take care of and further develop the society we have inherited from our ancestors, for the benefit of future generations. We're not going very far back in the nation's history until we were one of Europe's poorest countries. Prosperity has not come about by itself, but through hard work, risk and ability to seize the opportunities. Many have sacrificed everything in order for us today to live in peace and freedom, in a living democracy based on human rights and the rule of law. These are values that we can't or should not take for granted, but that we're going to call about. For the Right, the security and security of the inhabitants is the most important task of the State. We take that responsibility, and the government will give priority to strong defence, cooperation in NATO and strengthened ties with close allies, even in this process of mass destruction. In the Right, we're future-optimists. In Norway, we have the very best conditions for mastering the tasks ahead of us and ensuring that Norway remains the world’s best country to live in. We have a Prime Minister who is credible, cohesive and safe, and today I would like to extend a special thanks to the Prime Minister for the solid work she is doing, and wish you every success in the work. I look forward to working together in Stortinget for four new years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3172	Let me start by congratulating the big business representatives with new representation and wish you luck with important work. I look forward to working well with Stortinget in the coming years. In 2017, the Norwegian economy entered a positive path, with increased optimism. Several have come to work, and unemployment is on the way down. After the fall in oil prices, it has been important to avoid a high level of unemployability. Through active efforts for work, activity and conversion, the government will continue to support under increased employment and to combat unemployment. Despite weaker demand, new jobs have been created each year during the last government period. Many jobs related to the petroleum industry have disappeared, while new jobs have emerged in other parts of the labour market. The labour force is our most important resource. At the same time, many people in working life are out of work because of health challenges and receive public benefits. Persons with low qualifications or health problems, some young people and immigrant groups may have problems getting to work or keeping their jobs. It is a very important task for the government to contribute to the participation of more people in the future. If we are to be able to reduce inequality and maintain today's welfare level even in the future, we must succeed in including several of those who are currently out of work. This is a task that requires broad efforts from several parties. It is particularly important that young people, who may have a long professional life ahead of them, come out of a passive life and into education and work. Having a job to go to means personal development, stable income and participation in a social arena. Measures to encourage people with disabilities in working life, in education and in everyday life are important. The government will further develop the tools policy to meet the challenges of the future in this area. In order to achieve the objectives of an inclusive working and social life and a stronger social security network, the government continues its efforts to improve the conditions for social entrepreneurs and the voluntary sector. Good cooperation between the authorities and the social partners is an important prerequisite for a well-functioning and inclusive working life. Most in Norway work under good working conditions, and regular employment is the general rule. At the same time, it is important that the regulatory framework is flexible. The government has recently consulted some amendments to the Working Environment Act, including: linked to the hiring-in of labour. We're going to follow this up. The proposals that were being consulted take into account both the individual worker and the flexibility and competitiveness of the enterprises. The fight against crime at work is a common struggle for the workers, the serious businesses and the authorities. The government will continue to make it easier to operate seriously and more difficult to operate unprofessionally and unlawfully. The Government's ambition that Norwegian petroleum activities will lead the world within the HMS is established even if the industry is undergoing a demanding conversion. It is agreed in the Working Party of the Parties, which recently presented its recommendation, that the level of safety is high, but that there have also been serious incidents and security challenges in recent years. The group’s assessments will form the basis for a new notification to the Stortinget on HMS in the petroleum industry. The strong increase in the number of older people in the future means that the funding of pensions will require an increasing share of the country’s value creation. The aim of the pension reform is to secure future pensions. The reform implies that the active workers have to work longer for equivalent benefits than current pensioners. From a generation perspective, the reform contributes to a fair distribution of burdens between generations. It is necessary to revise the pension schemes also in the public sector. I will therefore take the initiative in the autumn of a final process with the parties with the aim of reaching an agreement on a new public service pension. A new sustainable public service pension solution must be adapted to the pension reform, which was backed by a broad majority in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3203	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3208	At the same time as the Prime Minister, with his broad pen during the election campaign, concluded that Norwegian work is in order, we could read on the government's websites that the crime of working life has become even more systematic and organised in recent years. We know that some of these problems are related to the manpower industry and labour hiring. Will the Council of State contribute to the supervision of the Labour Inspectorate in order to detect illegal hiring, and to the provision of responses that are strong enough if the law is broken, and will the Council of State contribute to the regulation of hiring more stringently and to the assessment of a ban in the construction industry, in particular in Oslo, in order to ensure that renting does not completely invalidate fixed employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3215	The main emphasis of employees is good at work today. It also shows the labour force survey carried out by trade unions. But at the same time, it's true that the crime of working life is serious, and we also see it spreading in some industries. It's also more organised and more systematic. This is why the government has put forward, in two stages, a strategy against the crime of working life together with the social partners, precisely to combat unprofessional social actors. It's in everyone's interest — the employees being exploited, serious companies being outrun, and society as a whole. As I mentioned in my post, before the summer we have sent out proposals to the hearing to regulate rentals. There are three proposals. One is to define fixed employment in law. Then you would get a lot of what is fixed employment without pay between jobs. A new basis is also proposed for recruitment of temporary agency staff, but also allowances for hiring in the workplace. Now we just got... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3222	Talida's out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3227	Thanks for the answer. Then I can give the council the opportunity to complete, but I also want to ask specifically: will she consider whether there can be a ban in the construction industry in Oslo, in addition to the things she started to tell about?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3232	The hearing period expired on 29 September, so now we've got all the hearing recordings. I haven't had the opportunity to read through them yet, but I will, and then of course we will come to the Stortinget with any changes. We intend to regulate this in a better way than today. It would not be appropriate to impose a ban if, by a ban, it is considered that it should not be possible at any level to hire any employees in the construction industry. I don't think there's anyone who wants or sees for themselves will be practically possible, but a better regulation than what's today, I think everyone agrees. There is also a background for the government sending out several proposals at the hearing, precisely to better regulate this. We will, as I said, go through the hearings, see what it is possible to achieve, what it is agreed on, and then we will present to the Stortinget proposals for changes that will better regulate this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3239	Norwegian work is less serious, less well organized. The amount of temporary employment increases and the hiring-in of workers by manpower provides unfair conditions of competition for serious employers with their own permanent employees. This gives rise to increasing economic differences between people and more insecurity in the labour market. In the case of the Centre Party, the reduction in the use of manning enterprises is an important keyword to stop this development. The Council of State consultation note of 29 June on changes to the Working Environment Act gives the impression that the government will restrict legal access to the hiring of workers through recruitment agencies – gives the impression. My question is, is the purpose of limiting this rental? If it is the purpose to limit it, why not also repeal Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act, second paragraph, on temporary hiring of workers? Because there is a much simpler possibility, with lower control costs and fewer options for adaptations to circumvent the legislative changes sent by the government at the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3246	It's not right, as the representative Lundtigen says, that you give the impression of tightening up. It'll be a tightening up. Some of the background to the changes that have been made is the so-called Clockwork judgment, which was issued in Bergen district right in ours, where we were just asked to tighten up what is to be regarded as permanent employment. That's a pretty big change we're proposing in the definition of permanent employment in what we've sent out at the hearing. The third proposal we sent out was, among other things, to impose allowance limits on the amount of lease-in. The first reaction of the trade unions when we published it was that this would lead to a great tightening and a great improvement compared to today's right. Now we're going to see if that's what we end up with at the end, but the proposals we've come up with will put a lot of pressure on the industries that have a lot of rent today. In particular, the construction industry is highlighted by the parties as the most problematic industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3251	A sustainable welfare country depends on good tax revenue. In Norway, we have a good tax morale in the population, but we also know that billions of the community's dollars are being diverted by tax evasion in the labour market. We know that in parts of the world of work, there is widespread black work, gross exploitation of workers, double contracts and close to mafia-like conditions. In addition to people's insecurity, billions of tax dollars disappear from the community. We know that a high level of organisation ensures the seriousness of work, especially on the employees' side. My two questions are: How will the government strengthen the level of organisation of work? And how will she work against the crime of working life, and in that way secure society against tax evasion?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3258	To take the last one first, as I said in my reply to the previous replicant, the government, in cooperation with the social partners, has put forward two strategies against the crime of working life, with several concrete measures to combat unprofessional actors. It's in our common interest that we get rid of it, because we know that many employees live under slave-like conditions. We know that a lot of serious companies are struggling to get contracts because unprofessional companies get them off the hook, and we know that there are huge tax evasions that could benefit the community. It is in our common interest to have an offensive strategy with concrete measures to combat labour-life crime. We also see that efforts are beginning to produce good results, including: through cross-border cooperation, through seven anti-criminal centres. So we're on our way. There's still a lot to be done. As far as the level of organisation is concerned, I agree, it is important that we have a high level of organisation in Norway. On the part of the authorities, it is important to facilitate the involvement of the parties in matters affecting them. That's what this government is doing to the very highest degree.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3265	Today, researchers from the SSB say that the cost of the necessary infrastructure as well as an ageing population does not go along with the policy of action on oil money. Then I wonder: I don't expect the Minister's answer to increase taxes, as the Labour Party preaches, and I don't agree with that either, but I expect the Minister to have more answers than just increased employment and more efficient public administration. I'm going to believe that within this period and with the backtrace we have, maybe some of the universal welfare systems are under pressure as well. I could imagine hearing -- with the backcloth we got in the throne yesterday -- if the minister thinks that some of our universal welfare arrangements are now beginning to get under pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3271	I also read the article in the newspaper today. There was probably the starting point that if you don't do anything, it won't work. That means you have to do something if you're going to make it jump. It gives the government the opportunity to show on Thursday, when you present the budget. Employment is clearly one of the most important things we can do to increase tax revenue and contribute to the community, but welfare reforms are also needed. In the last period, we were together about someone. We agreed on a Nav message, among other things, that should both work with Nav better and ensure closer follow-up of those who are on benefits. We agreed to change the redundancy scheme, which would mean closer follow-up of those in the scheme, a faster social welfare scheme and also an obligation to do so in order to avoid young social welfare beneficiaries going on social welfare for a long time. We were united in the last period on several important changes that will contribute to a more sustainable welfare country. As I said in my main post, I now want to facilitate the completion of the pension reform in the public sector, which will also be right, both to ensure a more sustainable pension and to ensure that more people are more at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3280	The Christian People's Party wants to see the care scheme from the perspective of the individual relative, the perspective of the individual patient and the perspective of the individual family. It is also important to bear in mind the saving of society by involving relatives in care activities. The Health Committee writes in our recommendation on wages and salaries that: ‘in a socio-economic perspective, it will be profitable to provide good facilities for those with demanding care tasks. For example, there is a lot of evidence to suggest that many relatives who are denied a care allowance are diagnosed and even disabled.’ My question to the Council of State is then: Is this not a relevant argument in the discussion about making the care scheme better than what was decided by the Stortinge in ours? I think especially of parents with seriously ill and chronically ill children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3296	Let me first congratulate the representative on the seat. I look forward to cooperation in the future. The objections, which were also somewhat of the background to the bourgeois parties being concerned about changing the entire care allowance system, were that the now entrenched in was too tight. It included very few, it was a discretionary and complicated code, people went out and into the scheme, it was very unpredictable for those who were inside it. What we did with the care reform was just to make sure that more people came in. We made it easier for children with permanent diseases to get in – it wasn't like that before – and we made it easier to keep the benefit longer even when you had good periods. It was easier to combine care money with work. I have noticed that there have been some objections now. I still believe that the scheme adopted by the Stortinget in ours represents a great improvement for the vast majority of families. The derogation introduced by Stortinget in its treatment will also ensure that those with the sickest children will be better cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3305	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3310	You can go into almost any classroom in Norway and ask your teacher: Can you see which of your students will struggle to get through school? The answer will usually be yes, I can. If you ask what the teacher needs to help the very students succeed, the answer will almost always be time and trust – time to do the job, trust that the teacher is the professional who can do the best job. Teachers do not need any more encouraging index fingers or more forms and tests. Teachers need more good colleagues, the knowledge they want, and an accessible school health service. The students need teachers who have time to see them, a team around the student who sees the whole human being, and a more practical school where you can learn with both your head and your hands. I start the post like that because the beginning of a new period is an opportunity both to look back on the previous four years and to look up. Despite big words about their own efforts, I believe the story of today's government is that they did not use the opportunities they had to equip Knowledge Norway for the future and create a school where everyone can succeed. The government's tax cuts were several times as high as the increase in school and competence. The school initiatives that came were largely paid by the school itself or the students themselves, as when the cultural school class was cut, or the interest subsidy on the student loan was increased to pay for the increase in the student loan. The results are missing. The dropout in secondary school is almost unchanged. Recruitment to the profession is weakened. There are now 3 000 fewer students in the profession in Norway than when Erna Solberg became prime minister. The application for pediatric teacher training is going in a negative direction, while we are faced with a lack of teachers. Work to make digitisation an opportunity, not a threat, because workers go with mouse-skrit. The census did not provide new visions of education in Norway, and greater ambitions are needed to solve the challenge we face. This is why the Workers' Party will continue to drive us to increase the quality of kindergarten through several qualified adults, several kindergarten teachers and skilled workers. We want to work so that the tax money spent on kindergarten goes to better kindergartens, not to profit. The Labour Party will do something to ensure that too many students fall away from school, through more teachers, early work, a change of course towards a more practical school, a lift for the professions, and to ensure a place of learning. Quality in higher education needs to go from fine words in key messages to real change for our nearly 300,000 students. The great apostasy is wasted on the resources of society and on the time of the individual. Maybe as many as one third of today's jobs will be gone in 20 years. Technological change, digitisation and automation will require the development of skills and knowledge throughout our lives. It's not a job or a task we want to leave to each one. We must share responsibility for providing workers with the skills they need. That is why we want a reform of labour skills. We don't want a working life where different access to knowledge brings new class divisions. In our working life, no one is to be pushed out as long as they can and will contribute. The election result did not give a new government, but the government is weaker than before, and a new majority has emerged in Stortinget. We in the Workers' Party will use our position as the largest party to get a pass on to our politics. The Left and Christian People's Party, if they want to, have the opportunity to get through issues that were stopped by the Right and the Advance Party in the previous period, such as more teachers and a teaching norm, a real boost for early efforts, offensive action against bullying and ambitious measures for equality in school and kindergarten. The Labour Party is ready to work with those parties that will ensure a majority in these matters, with a knowledge policy with higher ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3325	Norway is a country with small differences, good welfare and high trust between people. We must carry out our mandate as elected representatives and make the arrests that ensure that Norway is still the world's best country to live in. Work is important for our well-being. It's work that gives us dignity and the ability to support ourselves and the family. Having a job to go to is also public health, and it gives us the freedom and the ability to choose. The Working Environment Act was created at a time when many of those in the workplace were working in industry. Working life is now changing strongly, and we have moved into a knowledge society, where knowledge and competence are becoming increasingly important. Then we need to be able to discuss flexibility in the work environment law, such as access to temporary jobs, and still be seen as constructive. There are always benefits and disadvantages, but our job is to balance these and find the best solution. However, we will not be coming forward if we develop legislation in a dialogue where one party will always distrust the other for having unreasonable intentions. The right is for an organized and tidy working life. There's no contradiction between this and what business wants. We still need good dialogue to shape tomorrow's working life. What we don't need are political populism and less constructive conversations. We have just left behind an election campaign in which LO's management worked hard to give us a government shift because of what they called a brutalization of working life. But the voters chose something different. We are still in government, and we are going to continue reforming Norway so that we can still be the world's best country to live in. It is worrying that the level of organisation is falling. But I think this trend will be difficult to reverse as long as management in LO does not recognise that others can also have the solutions for the working life of the present and the future. We need all the votes to find the solutions together, not just those on the Workers' Party's membership lists. Then it's unfortunate that LO's management is running the tactics they're running, and a lower degree of organisation might have something to do with the strong party dependency. It has happened very well in the period that we have left behind. With the Right in Government, we have modernised the Working Environment Act. We've adapted today's working life, and we've lowered the threshold into working life. Those who have holes in the CV do not put in the queue at the front when new jobs are published. They need to be helped to get into the world of work. I have employed many people in temporary jobs myself, and several of these have been given permanent employment. I didn't do this because they were going to have an insecure everyday life, I did this because it could be a foot in the working life, or I did it because I don't want to give people false hopes. Holdings may be in transition and have temporary needs. Then it is also possible to be honest with those who are hoping for a job at the other end. The right-hand objective is to strengthen the working line. Fixed employment is always the general rule, let's not doubt it. I'm burning for an inclusive working life, where everyone who wants and can work will get jobs. So it's important that we keep going to school, because that's the most important factor in getting an education, getting into work and caring for yourself. In school we've seen that making demands is to care, and we saw a reduction in the absence of 40 pst. in secondary school last year. The obligation to operate young people under 30 years of age also shows good results. Nav Time in Rogaland had a project on this in February, where 21 out of 25 social welfare recipients were out in work after eight weeks. Nav employees say that by talking about the challenges, a process is initiated. Most people want to work, they just don't know exactly how to get to work. Then, as politicians, we need to be conscious of our responsibilities and help the companies and hubs on the way, so that more people come out of social security and into work. The right has put heavy emphasis on labour market measures and areas of practice in order to get more people to work. We're going to continue this bet, and we're going to give the businesses the incentives to be on this duel. The experience from Nav shows that there are places of practice in the private business that provide the best results, because there is the greatest probability that one actually gets a job at the other end. A job to go to creates a sustainable welfare society, a job gives us dignity, a job gives us freedom and the ability to choose. The most important work on the right in the next four years will be to ensure that all those who can work will have jobs. Our future well-being depends on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3344	A sustainable welfare society requires a focus on both the expenditure and income side. Values must be created before they are consumed. On the value creation side, the government stands for a comprehensive policy. These include: on a system of education, from kindergarten to college and university, which gives each person the opportunity to realise his or her abilities and which equates the status of a professional with the status of academia. It is about stable, predictable and good framework conditions for business, tax, taxes, yes-position in the public sector, framework conditions that stimulate growth. It's about investing in research and development, where we're world leaders in new technology, especially in those areas where we have a business comparative advantage. It is a trade policy that stimulates the export of Norwegian goods and services. It is about building a modern infrastructure, road, rail, aviation, shipping, energy solutions and fibre, which reduces costs and contributes to better conditions for both business and people most. The Norwegian economy is doing better, as many people have been in today. Unemployment is falling, growth in the economy is rising, and optimism is gradually falling. Let me take some examples from my own subject, energy. More renewable energy is now being developed in Norway than in 25 years. Wind power is being developed, hydropower is being expanded, and with the new agreement that Norway concluded with Sweden on the electricity certification scheme earlier this year, everything is in place to continue a very offensive expansion of renewable energy in the coming years. All the new plants that will be started by the end of 2021 will receive an electrical certificate, and if we end up building more than the original target on the Norwegian side of 13.2 TWh by 2021, Sweden will take the bill for all the excess. Also in the oil and gas field, everything now indicates that we've settled out. New forecasts for investment in the sector show that we will increase in 2018, and the level of investment will increase further in 2019 and 2020. An example of this is that in 2016 we received five so-called plans for expansion and operation to the Ministry of Oil and Energy, corresponding to a value of 25 billion. kr. In 2017, we have an expectation of ten plans for expansion and operation to a total value of 125 billion. kr. It has also been a good job in the industry in recent years with cost reductions. It is about standardisation, simplification, robotization and digitisation — as for other sectors of society. This makes new expansion projects profitable now, with a much lower oil price than before. Johan Castberg in the Barents Sea is a brilliant example, where three years ago the so-called 'break even' price was added to the 75 dollar barrel. Now the project is profitable with $35 barrel. Together with targeted work to further cut greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian oil and gas production, this strengthens the competitiveness of Norwegian cap. This ensures that Norway’s largest and most important industry will remain an important factor in the Norwegian economy and well-being for decades to come. At the same time, we need more legs to stand on. Therefore, it is important to transfer competence from our world-leading oil and gas industries to other industries, such as the government. focuses on the maritime strategy. It's about aquaculture, it can be sea wind, maritime industry, infrastructure or a future industry such as the extraction of minerals on the seabed. A sustainable welfare society also requires expenditure focus. We have to get the most out of the resources. It is about structures, organisation and working methods in the public sector, the use of competition actively, having a public sector that is also involved in digitisation, red tape, simplification and improvement. We also have to dry to think again. It is said that in good times you have to prepare for the bad. Norway is there now, and we have all the opportunities to succeed in the transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3363	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3368	I would first like to say that I look forward to good cooperation with the Council of State of Søviknes on important issues. Then I will ask the Council of State a question related to security and preparedness. If Norway is to be exposed to a strategic conflict with another advanced country, it is more likely that an attack will occur on our critical infrastructure than a traditional military attack. Then my question is: does the Council of State feel that the energy sector is adequately protected and prepared for such a situation? We have seen in our close neighborhood that major powers have been exercised on, for example. turn off the grid as an early foreplay to a military attack.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3375	First, I would like to stress that the desire for cooperation is mutual – I look forward to cooperation with the Energy and Environment Committee and the various fractions. To the question: this government has been extremely concerned with security. The Safety Act will be followed up with regulatory drafting, and for the oil and energy sector, it is also so that today we have a very strong sectoral legislation that ensures the safety of the base for our oil and gas plants, both offshore and rural, and in our hydropower system, the electricity grid, we also have strong sectoral legislation. However, the government will follow up, review and assess object protection also for the energy sector, in line with all other sectors, once the work on new safety laws has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3382	I thank you for that answer and look forward to further discussion about that subject. My other question is about the shift from the main emphasis on oil and gas to the progressive emphasis on renewables. As the Council of State correctly pointed out, perhaps some of our most advanced technological competences are precisely in the oil and gas industry. Are we good enough to prepare the environments and the technology that exist in that environment to also be bearer of the green shift? And if not, what measures does the Council of State want to introduce?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3390	We can always get better, but I feel that the industry itself is very clear that they are now seeing opportunities, both from the supplier industry and from the oil and gas companies, and that you have a competence, sitting on technology that can also be used against other industries. The government highlighted this in particular in the maritime strategy, we have pointed it out in the Industry Communication, and we have pointed it out in the North Region Strategy, to be clear that the authorities are also seeking the kind of knowledge transfer from one industry to another. As far as instruments are concerned, it is clear that Enova is an important instrument for this transformation, focusing on greenhouse gas reductions and new technologies to reduce barriers and contribute to sustainable market changes. Enova is an instrument that is also known to the oil and gas industries and is gradually becoming better known for its oil and gas industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3397	We want to get more goods on the keel, and we want to bet more on climate-friendly shipping. But raising shore-side electricity is also an important topic. The industry itself has done a great deal to facilitate this, but is it not also high time that the Council of State were doing its part to facilitate infrastructure in that area, and also to consider the disengaged tariff, which is important, which has already been tested and which can help to charge when there is power available in the network?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3402	I totally agree. We want an increasing share of freight traffic to cool, and we want new forms of energy to be welcomed in that sector too. Here I believe that a lot has already been done by the state, including by this Council of State, linked to Enova. Enova now has a budget of 2.6 billion. There have been three rounds of calls related to land flow and construction, and further work is being done in close dialogue with the industry. I recently participated and contributed to the marking of a new allocation, this time not linked to shore electricity, but still to energy and shipping. This is the new ship of Yara, ‘Yara Birkeland’, which is autonomous, self-propelled and will probably be fully electric and will operate in traffic linked to Yara’s fertiliser factories in Brevik. There is an exciting development in this sector, and Enova is our clear and clear tool that works.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3411	Let me also express a wish for good cooperation with the Council of States. Governments talked a lot about oil and gas. I want to talk a little bit about the consequences. Last week we had big rain showers over the South, or extreme weather, as we can call it. NVE has several times announced that you are standing without important flood protection measures. We're getting more and more evidence that it's important to avoid the kind of dramatic images that we saw from South Africa last week and in Development in Sogn and Fjordane this summer, where expenditure seems to be up to 120 million. kr. What will the Council of State and the Government do to enable the NVE and the municipalities to cope with an increasingly wild and wet climate?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3418	The government is concerned about people's security and has worked a lot on the flood and the gliding situation. We have to take over, as the representative points out, that we are getting a wilder and wetter climate, more extreme rainfall, more concentrated than before. That's why, over the four-year period that we now have behind us, we have granted twice as much for flood protection and tailoring as the previous four years. It's going to add up to 1,500 million. kr in the four-year period and for 2017 only 385 million have been allocated. kr. It is about physical measures, but it is also about step-by-step and flood zone monitoring, which is the main instrument the NVE can help municipalities to ensure that we avoid building ourselves into new risk areas, i.e. using them in land-use planning, and then using these zone maps to give priority between physical measures, so that we get the best food-use and can use the funds where they work best.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3423	The world’s leading climate scientists have made strong recommendations that large parts of the already discovered fossil energy resources must remain on the ground if we are to manage to avoid catastrophic climate change. I have come to understand that the Minister of Oil and Energy does not want to put a brake on Norwegian oil and gas production. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Council of State: does this kind of clear recommendation by the researchers impress upon the Council of State, and will the Council of State at least take the initiative to protect some of our most vulnerable sea areas from petroleum activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3428	The government has set up a climate and petroleum policy to help us both reach our objectives of the Paris Agreement and have a competitive petroleum activity. A good part of fossil energy sources must remain lying, mainly coal, but also the most polluting and costly oil and gas resources. Norwegian cap has the advantage that we have had tools for a long time, which means that we have seen relatively low CO2 emissions from our production. We have had a special Norwegian CO2 tax, we have had a quota obligation, and we have had a torch ban. Norwegian oil and gas production is favourable from a climate perspective as long as demand for these energy sources is maintained. We have that now, and we're going to have it for decades to come. Then I think it is right that we use our competence base, our knowledge of running well on Norwegian pedestal – where we have an interaction between oil and gas production, fisheries and the environment – to produce and participate in that demand. It would be bad climate policy to leave this to countries with much higher CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3435	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3440	When the government has now chosen a «sustainable welfare society» as its working title for the coming year, it is an unusually important theme and an unusually important title. In this regard, we should be able to expect that they might describe a little bit deeper how they're going to meet some of the biggest challenges we're facing, but one at a time. One of the challenges is unquestionably low growth, and a falling share of us are at work. This is particularly challenging for young people. As an example, Telemark employs 3,000 fewer people now than four years ago, and we have had hundreds of young people unemployed. That's dramatic numbers. The alerts given during this year are serious. In total, this is a clear warning that today's policy does not respond well enough to the challenges we face. In the speech of the Governor in February of the current year, he takes as his starting point his warning in a story from October 23, 1921. Then the steamer «Ulvsund» was surprised by what was to become one of the most powerful storms in Denmark in the last century. The ship is lost and all 17 on board are killed. There was a clear warning from the Governor that the analysis must be correct in order to promote proper action. He also said, ‘At the same time, we must recognise that increased oil money consumption and low interest rates are not the solution to the challenges facing the Norwegian economy in the longer term.’ In DN 30 May of the current year, the headline was «Investment in ordinary enterprises has not been lower since the early 1990s. Private money goes to the housing market.’ The main business organisation believes that there is reason to be concerned. The SSB will follow up on March 7th the current year: "We're not just saying that the growth is getting moderate, we're saying that it's going into crab bites and that it's fragile. By doing so, we believe that there is not much going on until the recession is prolonged." That's what the SSB says. These serious issues have not been addressed, analysed or answered in the census at all. Nor have I heard that these issues are issues that the Right Party and the Progress Party choose to talk a lot about in this debate. And once it's pulled out and talked about, as the Council of Søviknes just did, it's a self-satisfaction veil that covers an important analysis, because it's the pink picture that's being presented. Some aspects of the situation that are serious: conversion does not take place at such a rate as it should. Jobs are not created enough. Job growth is weak. It is weak investment, which clearly says that it is worrying about the future jobs, and the crisis in the Norwegian economy is well on track saved by the Norwegian model, a low krone price and a responsible trade union movement that has ensured moderate wage settlement for a demanding time. In the future, the Workers' Party will strengthen policy in a number of areas, just to ensure more in work, exploit our fantastic opportunities, energy, power, minerals, yes, put natural resources at work for future value creation. The Labour Party wants policies and the public to be a better partner for the development of new businesses and opportunities. We believe that that creates growth. Simplification needs to be reinforced, businesses really need to notice that business is becoming simpler and less bureaucratic. We are impatient with a much stronger focus on digitisation — ranging from coding in primary school to more ICT places of study and new knowledge for existing workers, in the course of lifelong learning. We will combine climate policy with industrial policy so that new technologies, new production methods, new arenas for growth and value creation can be established as a future competitive advantage. In other words, the Labour Party will pursue an active policy in several areas. We will also pursue an active agricultural policy, continue the good foundation on which the Workers' Party participated in the Stortingen during the previous majorisation period. We want to develop the resources, that they are used from north to south and from east to west. And we want a fisheries policy that creates added value and security for increased value creation along the coast. In order to respond to a sustainable welfare society, we need to ensure that policies provide a good basis for creating more jobs in forward-looking enterprises. We need to ensure work for all in a high level of employment labour market. It's the only thing that's at the root of a sustainable welfare society in the future. And finally, another issue that needs to be reinforced is our response to greenhouse gas emissions. Trine Skei Grande rusted the throne languages. She did the same last year. It ended up that the Left withdrew from the budget negotiations and said no to an actual agreement. I want to remind the Left that if you're going to do something about the climate, it's okay to get to the Stortinget, even with the Left in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3461	Before the government change in 2013, unemployment was on the rise, and growth in the Norwegian economy was declining. The evening post wrote: ‘The new government inherits an economy with adventurous years behind it and lower speeds ahead.’ Even with adventurous years, health cows increased, even with higher taxes, there were 15 000 more poor children under the red-green. Higher taxes do not necessarily mean more well-being. This was the legacy after eight years of the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Swedish Government. After four years of conversion from the heritage to the red-green and the largest oil price drop of 30 years, we now see the results of a policy for conversion, work and activity. Freedom is on its way down, and growth is on its way up. The Right Party and the Advance Party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have provided for reforms that are beginning to produce results. It responds to the challenge that the representative of Aasland thought was not addressed. There are more visible police in places that have never before seen uniformed police. Fewer are in hospital queues, and there is shorter waiting time for treatment for people in rushes. More roads and more tracks are being built than ever. Greenhouse gas emissions are falling, school knowledge is increasing, and private sector jobs are being created every day. And despite the warnings about the food crisis and only cabbage and cola in 2013, we now have 2,000 tons of lamb in stock, and fish exports are increasing. The results of the government's policy are visible, but we should not be content for that reason. Implemented reforms must be allowed to take place and new reforms must be initiated if Norway is to have a competitive business that finances both our well-being and creates values and jobs. We cannot continue to pay more for public services, and public services must primarily meet the needs of the population. A country can never take reform breaks, until it changes the world around us too quickly. We need to change continuously to keep going. And we have to move on. Norway is a country with small differences and high trust between people. This will maintain the Right by focusing on knowledge in school, an inclusive working life, a redistributive tax policy and targeted schemes against those outside. Right will have a society that creates opportunities for everyone, so that everyone who can and will contribute can contribute. The answer to the inequality can be not to increase benefits for those who are outside, but to lower the threshold into working life and qualify people into work. Opportunity for everyone is also a matter of demands for individuals — a requirement for participation, whether it is to meet at school, or a duty of activity on Nav. The right will strengthen the working line, because it is work that ensures the sustainable well-being of the individual and of the community. It's always worth working. To make demands is to care. At the same time, we need to ensure the well-being of those who, for various reasons, cannot work or who fall outside, temporarily or permanently. The goal is for those who can handle themselves to do themselves. That is why, for me, there is no contradiction between good framework conditions and tax relief for those who invest in Norwegian jobs and sustainable well-being. One actually assumes the other. It is also a good conservative principle that the state should not be all for everyone, but much for those who need it the most. It requires social benefits and measures to go to those who need it the most. That's to set up for people. inclusive growth and value creation provide the basis for our common well-being. A serious work life is a cornerstone of AS Norway. We've seen in the last few years unprofessional actors and the crime of working life break. The right does not accept attempts to hollow out or confuse the very reason we're standing on. The fight against labour crime is not just a fight against criminals, but a fight for hardworking Nordics and serious business leaders who stand up and go to work every day and contribute to Norwegian value creation. The right is for real tripartite cooperation as the basis for the social contract, where individuals do their duty and get their rights fulfilled. I will end by saying something about Norway in the world. As a country, Norway represents values we should be proud of. Many of these are under pressure, including in Europe, as abortion rights in Lithuania. Norway has a unique starting point for continuing to take leading roles internationally in human rights, equality, LHBT and sexual and reproductive rights. We've done that, and we have to do that in the future. Because after all, politics is about the individual human being and our right to be ourselves. Society is built stone by stone, and one by one is built together. I look forward to four new years for the community of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3492	The word ‘historic’ is very often mentioned from this pulpit, but this time not so many have mentioned it. So I want to start with the fact that it's historically wonderful that after four years in government, the Progress Party will continue for four new years. I have been on this trip – and what a journey it has been and will continue! This time, too, I'm going to work on one of the core issues of the Progress Party, namely health and care. The government has started to build up the patient’s healthcare system and has shown strong action through the preparation of several large-scale messages, action plans and legislative changes that have since been launched and that will be launched in the future. We are well in the process of building a health service of freedom and security – in line with the main values of the Progress Party's policy. We have been involved in redrawing the hospital map during this four-year period. Today, I have visited three very engaged women from the Emergency Hospital People's Action Centre to Alta, who are very concerned with good hospital services in Alta. The Progress Party will continue to work to ensure that we can follow up Alta's call for a new investigation into the hospital structure in Finnmark, so that we are 100 pst. ensure that hospital services are sound. We have reduced the waiting times at the country's hospitals, we have introduced package courses, and we have given Norway's inhabitants, especially the elderly, more rights. During the period we have ahead of us, we will continue to strengthen non-discrimination between private and public hospitals and services. The Progress Party believes that the best welfare offer is created in competition between state and private actors — and ideally. We've done something about that, and we're going to keep doing that. When the need for health care arises, it is essential that help comes quickly. Unfortunately, we know that while those in need of help have been in the health queue of public health providers, private health providers have had free capacity, and this is what has created a two-part healthcare system. Through free choice of use, free choice of treatment and free choice of rehabilitation, we ensure that many patient groups benefit from the capacity of private healthcare providers in the home and abroad. It gives patients not only greater predictability but also greater freedom of choice. So the patient is in focus, and that's how we're going to keep putting the patient in focus. The focus is also on the elderly in Norway. Elder care has been one of the most important heart issues of the Advancement Party for all years. Personally, I want to lift the elderly care even higher. I want to work so that we can set up an elder ombudsman in line with the existing Children and Gender Equality Ombudsman – an ombudsman who is involved in the design of the elderly care service at municipal and central level, and who looks at it with the eyes of the Argus. State funding for the care of the elderly, transferring the financial responsibility for the care services to the state – I do not understand why we stand alone on this model. The municipalities involved in the pilot scheme provide positive feedback. Why not the rest of political Norway sees that this is the way to go, I wonder. Norway has a well-developed health system, but we can still improve. For both young and old, health and how we care for it are important. The Progress Party will therefore also raise public health challenges during this period. We know that many are lonely, and many are struggling with mental health and drug problems. We still haven't managed to get all the way to life. We can't have it that way. We must continue to take this seriously and follow up on what the Progress Party and the Right in the Government have also worked on in the last period. For me, it is especially important that every human being is seen, regardless of age, symptoms, needs and desires for the future. No human being is equal, no symptoms are equal, and no treatment seems quite similar. I am therefore concerned that we are setting up our health care system after this. We have to stop putting people in the booth. We must be able to offer varied and diverse treatment. We have to venture to think outside the box. We have to listen, ask for and understand. Only then will we be able to meet every human being on their premises. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal by the representative of Olaug V. Bollestad and the Christian People's Party to evaluate the system. The Progress Party proposes to evaluate this in its batch programme. I also know that the Council of State in response to the Stortinget, to the representative of Bollestad, has been very clear on this. So we're going to work forward until tomorrow to look at this. We're very positive to get such an evaluation in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3516	Good environmental policy is also good district policy. Climate change is not just theoretical. They're here now. They get the result of the life we live, whether it's in town or in the countryside. We see that in the increased racial activity and the sequences that it gets for those who use our roads, and we saw it maybe especially this summer with all the things that happened in Development. My point is that the climate debate we have must also be about the precautionary principle, but at the same time one understands that we need good climate adaptation to live a good life here today. In Sogn and Fjordane, we have some of the leading trade unions before climate adaptation, and it's probably not random that they're there. The question we have to ask ourselves is, how are we going to build? How are we going to live to make it safe to live around the entire country in the future? It'll be important in the years to come. So it's that customization isn't an answer alone. Norway must fulfil its obligations and take its share of the responsibility for the green shift, and then, as the populace, we must do it in a way that assumes that the solutions are not necessarily the same in the districts as in the cities. There will probably never be a new T-Bahn tunnel in Askvoll, and the train there will only go on 17 May. In the Christian People's Party we understand this. And yet we understand that we are forced to act quickly to bring down greenhouse gas emissions, and then we have to get the inhabitants of our country involved, wherever they live. It is said that the soil is best closest to the grassroots. That I thought is a good delivery gel. It is a good delivery gel in the policy. We need a global environmental policy that recognises that the challenges may be common, but around the country the solutions are not the same. Does this mean that it is not appropriate to increase fossil fuel fuel fuel taxes? Absolutely not. Additional charges are not a goal in itself, but it is an important tool, because with reductions for electric and hybrid cars, we send a signal to the families who sit around the dinner table and wonder what kind of car they are going to buy next time, that they are forced to make a green choice. Another example is that it has been important to put the CO2 fund in place for business, which contributes to reducing emissions from heavy transport. However, there is a need to be aware that increased charges are different in areas where the need for transport is much greater than in cities. An important premise must then be that the things we elected to people do are possible to predict. It is better with a steady and moderately increased rather than an unincorporated and high increase from year to year. The change in a low-emission society also means a changed society, but that doesn't mean that everything has to be equal. If we're going to be able to change, we're going to have to use the renewable resources that we find along our entire long-distance country. The renewable hydropower lies around the district, and the inhabitants pay for it in the form of higher grid rents. The foundation of the bioeconomy is also found in the districts, whether it's green or blue carbon. Taking advantage of these resources requires that there are people who live there, who work there, who live their lives there, and that is necessary if we are to cope with a good transition. The Christian People's Party is engrossed in a climate policy that works. We are not afraid of either prohibition or market mechanisms, tax relief or tax relief. What we are afraid of is symbolism – lack of realism, a lack of will for action and a climate debate that takes little account of the fact that the challenges and solutions are different around our country. This is going to affect our climate debate too much today. The Christian People's Party is a centre party and has no ideological barriers to discussing solutions. The solution is ready. Some things we have to forbid, such as oil firing. Some things have to be more expensive, like fossil cars, and some things have to be cheaper, like zero-cars. It doesn't actually have to be either or, because we can use the entire spectrum of tools that we have available. At the same time, we need to take care that there are different presidencies in different parts of our country. We are now at the beginning of a new ageing period, and a growing period that largely determines whether we are able to achieve the climate measures we have seen. If we are to be happy with climate policy during this period, it is important that we are able to find solutions across the political scale. The Christian People's Party is ready to discuss the good solutions for the whole country and for the generations that come after us.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3543	The next speaker is Kari Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3548	Thank you, President, and congratulations on your new position. I'm so lucky I have four grandchildren, and they're going to meet the results of the policy we're adopting in this house over the next four years. Among other things, I am concerned about how we facilitate the future to be good. Neither I nor my grandchildren experienced the war and the meeting with the Nazi ideology, but both the ideology and the Nazis were closer than we could imagine. In the census it was said that we have put some prejudices behind us. The Nazis marched in Kristiansand's streets in 1940. They came back in 2017. The Nazis now forced themselves as then, and now as then they created fear and fear. Then as now they spread prejudices, with a rhetoric that is hateful and frightening. The police have subsequently received massive criticism and have recognised poor handling. At the same time, the government does not wish to publish the March evaluation report. The secrecy of this dramatic event thinks the government is ok. It's unacceptable, and it builds up trust and prejudice. I have a friend who has lived in Norway for almost 50 years, and who for the first time now feels that he does not feel Norwegian. He/she feels different — a variety of government members actively contribute to strengthening through refined stigmatisation under the cover of calling a spade for a spade. This helps to build prejudices, not to remove them. What my grandchildren are concerned about: Teachers are and have been important people in the lives of my grandchildren. They want to be among friends, in the family, in the group of friends and at school. They are concerned about the type of profession and education they will choose, and are concerned about the world's unrest and dissatisfaction. These are issues that the Labour Party's policy responds to. The Labour Party will have measures that ensure equal care for all, more teachers at school and opportunities to grow up in a secure family framework, rather than large tax cuts. Safe growth is important for children, but it is not obvious. Many children in Norway, and even more in other parts of the world, live in a brutal reality marked by violence and poverty. Therefore, the Workers' Party will take international responsibility for addressing the major challenges. We will contribute to peace and reconciliation, based on international conventions and human rights outside and at home. The Labour Party will formulate new goals and visions, not just for Norway, but to become a leading country in the world. In this way, we can make Norway bigger both outdoors and at home. The government says it's going so much better, and the throne speaks out that we can expect that we still have to wait for things to happen. In Flekkefjord they are waiting for the resignation of all 150 employees at Simek. The 150 employees and their families cannot wait, nor can the 3,000 who are now out of work in Agder. 1 103 young disabled people, 64 more first quarter of this year – they can't wait either. The Labour Party will therefore create more jobs through an active industrial policy and a policy that brings people into and not out of work. Differences in Norway are increasing. The government’s prioritisation of private actors over public services creates greater differences. For example, private childcare facilities for the most vulnerable children are dominant providers of services to children with the greatest challenges. The entire 15 children only in Agder are placed in private one-to-one measures. The state expresses concern that children remain too long in such measures. I share that concern. It shouldn't be like that. It's a solid disclaimer, and it's the wrong policy. Also in the field of culture, we see that the differences are increasing with government policy. Private financiers govern culture through the gift-enhancing scheme. The biggest gifts go to the biggest players in the four major cities – privatisation and centralization once again. The Workers' Party will distribute cultural money so that they come out to all parts of the country and reach people of all ages. Culture is to be created and shared where people live, not where the financiers have their wallets.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3569	Wouldn't it be amazing if we had a magic formula to reduce inequalities, eliminate poverty and make well-being sustainable and secure for the future? But we do. There are new, profitable jobs — jobs that provide value creation, which contribute to tax revenue and well-being, not jobs that require part of our well-being through subsidies. So simple and so difficult. Nevertheless, from the political environment, this year has been a single long-term attack on business and the jobs they create, followed up by the wishes of even completing entire industries. The Green Party, SV and AUF have all wanted an end to exploration for oil and gas now. There are 13,000 men who have to land for unemployment then. The Environmental Party of the Greens and the AUF will wind up Norwegian oil and gas industries over the next 17 years, long before the investments we are making today stop delivering valuable products to the world market. There are 180 000 profitable jobs away, or 11,000 a year. To compensate for these profitable, well-being-promoting jobs, there will be 10,000 welfare-affecting jobs in unprofitable industries in the next few years. For us who have seen ships lying along berths in warehouses in recent years, for us who have seen their seafarers and workers go ashore to unemployment, for us who have seen the workers – our neighbors, our communities, rather than our relatives – go home and say that next month we can't handle the bills, this is very, very provocative. I think some of what this government has done is give these back faith in the future and a job. It's very provocative that someone might think of doing their job. In addition, Red and SV have declared the pursuit of employers to be 36 000 employees in private kindergartens. They talk about all the money having to go to well-being. I am most concerned that we get the most well-being out of every penny. In my municipality, Ashøy, taxes have been introduced on works and use, and now it seems that most of the income from it is going to re-communalise a nursing home. Higher taxes and less well-being — there is no solution, it is a problem. The Centre Party has through no less than the present and future head of the Food Committee, the representative Pollestad, through the Nations, warned the 100 000 employees of the grocery trade that their chains could make their way to a red-green government. The tax system of the Workers' Party, which they now seem to evaluate themselves to, was a bad idea, and which even the former financier in the party was opposed, is in the same street: an attack on those who create jobs. We know all the companies that had to make unsafe times for their employees, because they had to take value from the company to pay property taxes. The working party will make these insecure times even more unsafe. There is a total decoupling between creating and using, and it is quite significant that after a good job insertion, the Vice President of the Workers' Party, Hadia Tajik, ends by pointing out where one can give more in social security. It is, as Aasland's representative says, too difficult to start a business. In today's society, it's almost like two masters are required to start a business; one for the subject to be practiced, and one in bureaucracy. But I would challenge Aasland to say which of the regulations and reports the Workers' Party has not been in favour of proposing. We have to make it easier to start businesses. We need to remove time thieves, so that entrepreneurs can concentrate on creating and selling new products and creating new jobs, for example. Mariann at the Bakstehuset on Askøy, where I come from, can concentrate on baking the world's best bread, which is her ambition, and not have to apply to the municipality to get permission to sell it because it wasn't regulated for where they were going to sell it. We have to reduce, not increase, their tax burden, so that there are more, not fewer, profitable jobs. We can't afford to send 13 000 search workers ashore or to give up our most profitable business. Can we make it easier to start a business, reduce tax burden, strengthen research into new solutions, reduce the threshold into entrepreneurship and employment and increase skills, create more jobs, reduce poverty, reduce inequalities because more people are at work, and make our welfare system sustainable and future-oriented? That's the job we have to put the cancers on: making it easier, not more difficult, creating new jobs, having lower, not higher, taxes on jobs and having simpler, not more difficult, access to employment. As a conclusion, in view of this morning's flood of proposals for representatives, I am tempted to conclude a Cato-den-agement: otherwise, I believe that reverses are wrong for Norway – dixi.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3590	There is a broad consensus in this room that Norway is facing major challenges in the coming years. We have to cut significantly in greenhouse gas emissions. We need to establish an agreement with the EU to cut off as monks in Norway. It's urgent if we're to meet the 40 pst target. Cut by 2030. We're going to transform society into being prepared for the challenges and to be able to take advantage of the opportunities of the fourth industrial revolution and digitisation. And not least: we need to reverse the trend of more and more young people who don't get a job or only get unsafe jobs. The increasing number of people outside the labour market weakens the very foundations of the social model: safe work and well-being for all. And more importantly, it weakens our overall well-being, because most of our national wealth is the value of our future work. This is why the Labour Party says that once again, the most important thing for the country must be the policy. I've had the pleasure of working a lot on north-eastern issues in the last few years. It has given me ample opportunity to meet people and businesses who have ideas, visions, will and ability to create a future for themselves and for the nation: the reindeer programme on the Finnish coast, the travel industry on Svalbard and in Lofoten, the knowledge environments in Bodø and Tromsø and the fishermen all along the coast, to name a few. They see challenges that come, but also opportunities and solutions. They conclude that future opportunities lie in the north. Unfortunately, the government is not as offensive. In the Common Era, the northern regions are not mentioned. It may seem that the northern regions are not a priority for this government. When we were last in government, the northern regions were not only important, but it was the most important strategic area of foreign policy. We had visions and instruments. Norway was an Arctic power – not because we were a military power, not because we are most people or have the largest economy. We became a power because we had the political will and the ability to set an agenda. The Workers' Party will, in turn, turn the northern regions into the nation's most important strategic area. We will make the country the most important thing in politics. This is the core port of Norway. The port of Norway has six times more seas than land. We have the world's second longest coastline, and approx. 80 pst. of the sea areas we have, located north of the polar circle. We're ready for the next chapter of the Northern Territory bet. It is a sustainable effort in the ecological, economic and social sense that makes it possible to live and work throughout the country. That's why we've also said that we want to have a marine value creation program, because the sea is the future. Then we'll have broadband communications in the north through satellites, so that even more people can do business there, more research can be done, and it's possible to operate safer in these areas. Therefore, we will have faster expansion of port facilities in Longyearbyen, so that more tourists can come, we can get an efficient port of business, whether it is fishing, or it is the Coast Guard that operates from there, and we can take a strategic role as a maritime hub for business in the north. That's why we want a national drone centre based on environments and opportunities found in New Ålesund, Tromsø, Andenes, Bodø and Trondheim. We want a governance regime that regulates sustainable use and exploitation of resources other than fish in the sea, such as red seas, seaweed and krill. That is why we want to get back and review the monitoring of mineral resources in the north, which can provide the basis for new jobs and value creation, but which will also provide the world with highly-needed minerals in response to the development of new climate technologies. We will further develop knowledge environments in the north, such as the Brønn Island Health Registers, which will play a key role in the digitisation of public Norway, such as universities, which have the most knowledge of operating in the north, and not least further develop the strong maritime activities and clusters that already exist. There are great opportunities in the north, but if we're going to be able to use them, we have to venture and be able to use political instruments. It is not acceptable that the northern regions should be a modern colony, that one should come from outside, pick up natural resources and allow us, as living and living there, to live with the consequences without sharing the possibilities. Nordic policy must have a vision that everyone should be able to participate in the opportunities. We do that in a community, not by letting market forces rule the ground alone. The government seems to have abandoned the northern areas as a political project and is passive to it. The working party is ready for the next chapter of the Northern Area bet. We have the visions, we have the means. We choose to make the country the most important thing in politics, a society in which everyone has equal opportunities, and in which everyone is allowed to be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3615	It is striking how pleased the Workers' Party is with its own Northern Region policy. Had it been so good, perhaps more had voted for them. I guess I'm familiar with North Norway, the area where the Workers' Party had the biggest decline in the election we've just had. It is widely known that the Right is not a revolutionary party, but we are more concerned with ongoing change and improvement. What we want to keep, we have to be willing to change, or as Burke said, change to preserve. In the speech of the year, it is called, among other things,\t\t You can change the settings of ‘We are privileged to grow up, work, have children and grow old in Norway. Much in our society can still be improved, but compared to past times and other parts of the world, today’s Nordics have much to be thankful for.’ We have the best starting point to ensure a sustainable welfare society. State finances, a productive business and a highly educated workforce are involved. But good solutions will require efforts in several areas, more have to work longer, and more have to be at work. Work is also the best way for individuals to increase their own income and wealth, and there is also a successful health policy and well-functioning healthcare. Increased growth and more in work are important, but more needs to be done. The public sector has to face several changes. We should think again and carry out the necessary reforms. It's not like everyone likes change, it usually gives resistance. But if we look back, it's all these big and small changes in society that have brought us to where we are today. In the last period, the government launched a series of new reforms. In healthcare too, there was a lot of new. Still, we're not in the goal. The pace of digitisation needs to increase. Labour needs to be freed, so that more people can provide care and ensure that our older people have a worthwhile old age. In this way, we help Norway to remain a good country to live in for generations to come. Digitalisation is an essential part of our value creation and growth, and in the future we will focus on increasing the use of welfare technologies and more digitisation. It is only to realize that the health sector has much to learn from other parts of society in terms of digital development and interaction. An important election vow from the opposition was to reverse free treatment choices. It is a great pleasure to confirm that that reform was not reversed, but rather given up. We're going to continue to work on this and other measures that build on our goal of creating the patient's healthcare. It's more than just words. The patient’s healthcare service is to adapt the system to the patient and not the other way around. It's not about patients getting everything they're pointing at, but about both patients and relatives getting more involved. It means fewer Per Fugellis single-use doctors and more longitudinal coordinators and contact doctors. This means that a better overview of self-treatment and new solutions, such as electronic list of medicinal products in use, is provided to all treating physicians. That means that no decisions about me are to be made without me. A critical opposition must exist, but it must be constructive. I heard the head of the largest party in Norway wondering if the Workers' Party had been too constructive in recent years. It is a strange approach to politics. For what is the opposite of constructive? For those of us who are busy building the country and equiping it better for future generations, it is not possible to be ‘for constructive’. We are chosen to manage our common values and what we have built up. Then everyone has to contribute, and it is doing the best that both the position and the opposition have the most constructive approach to both issues in the Stortinget and the challenges facing us in society. Being a representative of big business is a great honor and a great responsibility. We have been chosen to manage the interests of the nation for the benefit of everyone. It's sometimes burdensome, but always rewarding. We have a lot to be proud of in our country, but we can't take anything for granted. Further development of Norway requires joint efforts across political parties. At the same time, we must never forget all those who run businesses, all those who run our public and private businesses, and all the employees of the labour force, regardless of the sector, who keep our country going. Our future depends on people's work and voluntary sector. We politicians must facilitate and provide good framework conditions. In many cases, it requires cross-party cooperation. I was therefore a little stunned when my colleague from the Workers' Party from Haugesund said right after the election: we are not going to make it easy for them. So he meant to us from the Right and the Advance Party. We like to have challenges, and we also like to have something to wear. But it's a strange approach to politics to want to make it difficult for each other. Instead, let's use the debate to get alternatives and dividing lines. We must not fail to undermine each other rather than build something good together. I don't expect any other parties to be loyal to us, nor do they help us implement the policies they disagree with, but I really hope that this doesn't mean that every case should be countered even if you agree. The people have used their power and put together this great crowd. We borrow power for four years. So let's show you what it's worth.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3648	I am glad that a long campaign is over, although I strongly believe that we are running a campaign all the time. Many people believe that what you have done is not a choice but a choice of what you want. Personally, I think it's about both. Through the election campaign, I met a lot of voters who pointed to the fact that we had delivered an incredible amount of what we had promised four years ago. When the voters see that we deliver more trains, more roads, more hospital treatment, more to the police, more to the municipalities and a number of other individual measures, it also gives credibility for the next four years. And it became early clear to me that the voters did not buy the black paint on which the Workers' Party tried. The selectors simply did not recognize themselves. I am proud of all the amazing things we have achieved in health, care and care. More than 400 staff in health stations and school health services are important for catching up early on children who are struggling, having disabilities or who are living under violence and care failure. Law-enforced community psychologists, shorter waiting times and fewer hospital queues, and not least free treatment choices, legal rights to user-controlled personal assistants and a formidable escalation in the drug field are all important improvements that it has been an honour to get in place. The Progress Party shall continue this good work of focusing on individuals rather than systems. The way forward will largely be to follow up and further develop all the good work that has begun, and I feel confident that those who take over the staf stick in the Health Committee will do so in a good way. The only thing I regret not being allowed to take a large part in is the alerted mental health programme for children and young people. But it is in the municipalities that lives are to be lived. I record that today, many years after the interaction reform came into force, the municipalities do not have the necessary competence. Small municipalities will never be able to do this either. Therefore, work with larger municipalities is crucial if we are to be able to provide our citizens with equivalent and safe healthcare where they live. In the election campaign, I warned Akershus that the fight against violence in close relations would be important for me to follow up. Several cases of partner killing and killing as part of an honorary culture have occurred in Akershus in recent years, and are therefore themes that have engaged me more and more. Several women have contacted me in the last few years, and this has been a new and exciting field for me to dive into. My experience is that the most important thing for a teacher is to meet people who have lived a life and learn from their experiences. In this way, it is good for me now to work with integration and local economy. We should never accept that children in our country are living under social control and at risk of being subjected to circumcision and coercion. Taking your own culture with you when you move to Norway is quite natural and quite fine. But we're going to be clear that there are some parts of some people's culture that we're not going to accept in Norway. Keeping asylum arrivals at the lowest possible level is important if integration is to be successful. Many who come to our country want to live in my state, Akershus, and many of the municipalities in Akershus are very good at integrating. So we know that the main reason we've gotten increased differences in recent years is the high immigration we've had over many years. About half of those who have the least of them have immigrant backgrounds. But immigrants are as different as Norwegian births are. We have immigrants who do well, make good money, live good lives, and their children do good at school. But we also have immigrants who don't participate in society, who isolate themselves, who don't learn the language, and who are therefore not working either. Most people want a job to go to. Immigrants with poor Norwegian and youth skills or others with holes in the CV are most struggling to get a job. A number of grips are taken, and more and more people get their dream of a job fulfilled. Nav unemployment rates show that the unemployment rate has fallen steadily in the last year. The total number of unemployed is now 2.5 pst. by the labour force. But this is also about attitudes and the willingness of employers to give people a chance, and we therefore need more employers who dare to think again. I'm asking the municipalities to use the volunteer for everything it's worth. Volunteering consists of engaged people with a lot of knowledge and a great heart, and I know that a lot of an immigrant has found out of the Norwegian system with the help and support of the volunteer. I'm looking forward to the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3680	The representative, Eirik Sivertsen, has to follow very poorly in the Northern Region policy, or at least he does not have good political memory – all the time the government actually put forward a renewed Northern Region strategy earlier this year. It's going down in the north. We know that the measures taken by the government have had an impact. We have record low unemployment, and growth is much larger than in the rest of the country. We also know that the government that is now sitting has actually more than doubled the North Region Strategy effort in relation to what the Red-Greens did. In this way, it is quite unreasonable claims that came from Sivertsen. I'd like to talk to him on a two-man basis if he wants to get more schooled in our Northern Region policy. The reason I came up here is that today, just over 150 years ago, a scientist and Peace Prize winner was born. The nun came to the world. During his lifetime, he set considerable tracks throughout the world, and also in the North Region policy. Fortunately, we have many people here in Norway who have been foreshadowed and put a trail behind them. For example, just three years ago. Mosel, the research team, helped get the Nobel Prize in Medicine, and in this way they were ministers – people who have given us opportunities for the future. But opportunities alone create really very little. Therefore, when we aim for the future, and with the Norwegian economy in transition, the focus on education and research is one of the most important things we can do. After four years with the Right in the Ministry of Knowledge, we see that the students learn more, they are more present, and more perform higher education, to mention something. Nevertheless, there are still too many young people coming from higher education and also from higher education. This creates challenges for the individual, but is also lost opportunities for our country. That's why it's important that we have high ambitions for the way forward. The initiative that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have delivered in the last four years is now to be followed up and we are to have increased efforts for education and research in Norway. Our next big boost will be early efforts to ensure all early mastery in school. But we also need to strengthen vocational training, the quality of higher education, and we need to ensure that no one goes out to date. Education and training must be an integral part of our working and social life, and lifelong learning is central to facilitating a working life that changes more and more and more and is changing. The right started work in the last period on strengthening early efforts, from quality and learning through play in kindergarten to focusing on giving all children basic skills in primary school. This is how we help to ensure that everyone gets a good starting point for school and gets to experience early learning joys. Because we have to succeed in primary education, we have to get more people to complete and pass high school. It's a goal that everyone should be able to read, write and count at the nursery, so that we can build on the middle and early stages and get into high school. Early efforts for special education are also important, so that we do not have a waiting-and-see attitude in this country. The stakes on teachers are also very central. Skilled professionals with good communication skills are one of the most important resources available to us, and the right-hand teacher effort will continue in this period as well. Of course, when training is intended to ensure the ability of the business sector, the focus will also be on higher vocational education. I want to encourage more people to take vocational education and receive master's letters in the future. We have made a significant contribution to strengthening the professions, and now we need to focus very strongly on ensuring that the masters get their sense of reindeer. It is also incredibly important that we focus on higher education. We need to make sure that our universities, colleges and research environments are world-class. That is why I look forward to following up the many good actions that we agreed on in the Quality Communication, but also to facilitating more places of study, continuing the big effort to expand student housing and improve the student economy – at all to get a higher education that provides the industry with demand, namely competent hands to meet the future. We have to give our kids the best opportunities, the best future. That is why we need to ensure that everyone gets a good education, a meaningful job and secures the good life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3697	Many see a more insecure world. The President of the United States is also involved. Within the EU, the system error of the euro without a Ministry of Finance is becoming more and more clear. This unparalleled experiment creates major changes in the political landscape also in France and Germany. This creates greater uncertainty because the EU system is in a tight position. Large debt borrowings in a number of national countries have continued after the financial crisis. This is vulnerable. National countries may hardly be able to rescue banks that are ‘too big to fail’. In Norway, the level of loan-funded private consumption has been considered to be very high internationally. According to the Financial Perspective of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority 2017, the debt of Norwegian households as a percentage of disposable income is 219 pst. at the end of 2016. It's historically loud. Debt is increasing more in percentage terms than disposable income. This debt-funded consumption generates a huge number of jobs. These are many vulnerable jobs. That's cause for concern. Climate change leads leading international leaders to work to reduce the use of fossil carbon. In a few years, this will have a major impact on the Norwegian oil and gas sector. There will be fewer jobs rather than more jobs in this important part of Norwegian business and employment. Overall assessment: An industrial policy that provides more secure jobs must therefore become one of the main debates and decisions of the Grand Duchy in the future. For the centre party, it is therefore important to promote measures for the conversion of business, so that we both get a green shift and produce more of the goods we need. For the centre part, green shifts are from black to green carbon – simply from oil and gas to primary industries, i.e. renewable carbon. We need to bet on cod, thymote and spruce, symbols of future commodities, commodities that need to increase profitability, so that both production and further processing attract good youth. A strategic industrial policy that addresses business neutrality requires the provision of incentives to invest large amounts of money in modern processing. The processing of fish and timber is an obvious field of action. The production of safe local food is now a high consumer requirement. Food free from antibiotic resistant bacteria provides a green import protection. In order to do this, more young people have to be trained with a vocational school after completion of a course. We have to do as Switzerland and Austria: get a stronger vocational training. In my opinion, it is right to give priority to this rather than to increased investment in academic education in the future. Labour policy, which provides security of income from work and industry, must become the second major debate for the future of the Storting. Social dumping in the labour market, i.e. pay and working conditions that are not available in Norway, must be stopped at the border. Social dumping through the exploitation of workers from poor EU countries has become a serious threat to the pay and working conditions of the trade union movement. Immigrants from the EEA can compete for jobs in Norway, but it is unacceptable when resident workers with Norwegian pay and working conditions are replaced by travellers, many of whom commuter workers go under worse conditions. Between 2008 and 2016, employment in Norway fell among non-immigrant workers. Over the same period, the number of persons employed from EU countries in Eastern Europe increased by nearly 90 000. Many of these have far worse conditions and pay, working time and protection against dismissal than is common in Norway. Labour immigration by itself is not a problem. Since 1954 Norway has lived well with a frontierless labour market in the Nordic region. This has worked well because labour immigration has occurred between countries with quite equal living standards and somewhat equal pay and working conditions. Today's labour migration from poor countries in Eastern Europe is different. In practice, it is impossible to maintain Norwegian wage and working conditions and quality standards when it is free to import labour from countries where price and salary levels and housing costs are a fraction of the level in Norway. The centre party is not at ease to see that the pay and working conditions that have been fought over 100 years in the trade movement are being destroyed in a few years. The centre party therefore supports the trade movement, which is at the forefront of a policy that says Norway has the right to regulate borders around our own labour market. Reasonable regulation must aim to stop social dumping at the border. This does not mean stopping immigrants, but ensuring that poorer countries' wage and working conditions are restored at the border when they enter the Norwegian labour market. This has to be followed up by a level of penalties for social dumping that is really debilitating. This will be a difficult but very important debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3714	Government has invited us through the guise to discuss a sustainable welfare society. On the World Mental Health Day, it is important to remind ourselves that those who suffer from mental illness and those who have drug problems in Norway have a 20-year life span shorter than the normal population. It is important to remember when discussing how to rig a sustainable welfare system for the future. There is a need for power, and there is a need for carrying capacity in a future where there are growing older. Less will fund our well-being. We have to spend the money properly and invest smartly. My party leader, Trine Skei Grande, mentioned the Canadian Prime Minister’s slogan – better is always possible. If we look back in time, we've always taken one step further. Better is always possible, but also absolutely necessary to create the well-being with which we will meet future challenges. It is also a struggle for freedom to set some addicts free from the needs around them, to which they have less access than others. We have some challenges in creating the welfare required to lift everyone to a better life. We can also mention the drop-out at school. We've created structures that make it impossible for everyone to get through and contribute in a future where more hands are obviously needed at work. It will be enough to do for everyone in Norway in the future. Although we get robots and talk about digitization, there is a need for both more warm hands and many warm hearts. We need to create a greater degree of interior design, both for those who fall out of school and work, and for the new inhabitants who come to Norway. We're not going to create digital class divisions. We're going to create digital participation. Then we have to equip ourselves with a better public health, an early effort that makes us get good health throughout our lives. Today we spend almost 140 billion. Illness repair and damage that we have caused throughout our lives. The little paradoxical thing in the world's richest country is that it's the chronic suffering and the non-infectious diseases that grow. In a country that has the greatest density of doctors in the world, we need to ask ourselves if we are using resources and competences properly. Training a lot more doctors is not likely to be an option in Norway. But we have to look at how we use them, and how we can apply technology, for example. to better master your own health and to prevent some of the suffering that we suffer today, related to diabetes, obesity and carbon. There are great opportunities to lift us out of much of that disease image, by our own participation. Looking out of Norway, we have quite similar challenges around the Nordic countries, so cooperating with the Nordic countries to solve some of the welfare challenges we should also do more. We are facing many parallel challenges of both old age and public health, while we are in a part of the world that is creating ever-increasing opportunities – digitisation and the knowledge we take on can create new opportunities. Health can quickly become the new substitute for oil – health skills that the rest of the world will need, and new technologies that we can export. Snow can also be our new oil. In my inland district, winter is still very long, and tourism is flourishing. We have a unemployment rate below 2 pst. in our part of the country. On the other side of the Hedmark border, 1.1 billion are invested in these days. kr in a new airport, in Sälen in Sweden. The cross-border cooperation is there, because Trysil is also going to take a large part of the gain of that establishment. Then it's a small cross of thought that we just closed an airport in Valdres and Hallingdal. It's part of the country where tourism grows a lot. Rehabilitation of such infrastructures is expensive. Making use of those resources is important, and we have great opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3730	As mentioned in the keynote address, we have a lot to be grateful for, among other things. that we live in a democratic society in a peaceful part of the world. Many people in the world do not have the opportunity to participate in free, democratic elections, and we should be grateful that we live in a country where we have the right to participate in choosing who will rule, and where every four years we have the opportunity to exchange them or to re-trust them, if we think they deserve it. In the autumn elections, the non-socialist parties regained confidence by the Norwegian people, and I hope we will manage that responsibility in a good way. We've started a job, but there's still a lot in our society that can, should and should be improved, and I hope we get the opportunity to complete that project. One of our most important tasks is to ensure that the society that we deliver to our children is in a better constitution than what we took over. The progress party is concerned that we have to get more legs to stand on. We've been too dependent on the oil industry, but we can no longer rely on large, extraordinary revenues in the years to come. The oil industry will be Norway’s main industry for a long time to come, but as State Councillor Terje Søviknes said, it is in good times that we should prepare for the bad. We know that in the future more people will have to work longer, and more people will have to work if we are to be able to maintain and further develop today's welfare society. If we are to succeed in the transition we have to make sure that businesses get their competitiveness up, both internally in the country and abroad. This is done by three measures in particular: taxation, transport and schooling — primarily by reducing the costs of enterprises in terms of lower tax levels. I am thinking in particular of the strange wealth tax, but also of the corporate tax. We must build the country and dare to invest in infrastructure. Better roads, new tunnels and mainland connections are just a few examples of what business demands for things that can improve competitiveness. And we need to invest in knowledge and research. Money spent on e.g. Early efforts today save money in 20 years' time on social assistance, labour market measures and unemployment benefits. Tax, transport and school have been areas of activity for this government for the last four years, and will be the next four years. The Progress Party believes that good framework conditions for business and a good education and research sector are the cornerstones of the welfare society and a prerequisite for safe jobs and value creation. Norwegian school is on the right track. The students learn more, absence sinks, and more complete higher education. However, there are major challenges, including: with the dropout, which is too high, and still thousands of students leave primary school each year with so weak skills that they will have problems coping with further education and jobs. This, early work and a career status gap are becoming important areas of concern in the coming year, and I am pleased to address these challenges in committee work. If we are to raise the status of the professions, the most important thing we can do is to make sure that there are jobs for those who start school. One thing is to create good conditions for business, and another is to facilitate more companies taking in apprentices. This government has invested in apprentices, both by increasing the apprenticeship allowance and by requiring the use of apprentices in public tenders. Although we have been through difficult times in the last four years, with both the migration crisis and increased unemployment in parts of the country that were severely affected by the oil price drop, we now see trends turning around. We run the country with strict immigration policy, with the result that we have the lowest number of asylums in 20 years. At the same time, more and more enterprises are now reporting better turnover, increased profitability and more employees in the coming year. That is good news, and it shows that the policy we are pursuing is working. We live in exciting and challenging times, it has been said – in these days, now after the election, perhaps especially in this house. All of us are a little uncertain about what the period brings, but what we know is that future prosperity and future value creation depend on the magnificence and courage of the government to make courageous decisions. The Group of the Party of European Socialists is ready for this work. We will do what we can to get good decisions for the benefit of those who are going to take over the country, namely to create a sustainable welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3751	Many have commented that the century we now have to debate contained few political measures, but that it was a well - known rhetorical act by the government. This can be seen, for example. in the languages of the throne: «... it is not coincidences that have created the society of which we all enjoy.» That's right. But it's a typical rhetorical move from the Right to try to represent it as that the welfare society that we all celebrate is something that has been agreed on. No, it's a result of political disagreement, political struggle and political elections up through the years. That's what brought us the Norwegian model, which many countries envy us, and that has helped to make this a good country for everyone to live in. The Norwegian model consists of three main beams. It is economic policy, tripartite cooperation and the welfare society that is special about the Norwegian model. It is now being systematically attacked. In economic policy, the idea of the Norwegian model is that we should jointly use the tax system to finance the welfare society. We split, and it's a good thing. In addition, the tax system should ensure that even if there are relatively small wage differences in Norway, the tax system should compensate for differences in earnings. At both of these points, the Norwegian model is failing the direction the government has taken. It is even true that when the rationale for the relief of wealth taxes is that we are going to grow in business, no professional environment — not even the Prime Minister — can say that there are some results in terms of growth in business as a result of the relief of wealth taxes. On the other hand, we see that some people get tax incentives – those who have to stop working and get termination benefits, or those who commute to work. Then you have to pay more tax. Then the profile will be ready. The French economist Thomas Piketty wrote in the ‘Capital of the 21st Century’ that he warns against this development in the world, because it can lead to social unrest and uprisings. When Piketty points out that greater differences are dangerous to society, the current government says, well, that's the way we go. The cooperation model has been challenged by the government. The government's been on the first general strike in decades. It was when the representative of the Right, Mr. Kambe, said that it was time to cut the LO wing. But it was not just LO who was clipped – everyone on the employee’s side and everyone on the employer’s side. We need that cooperation to get more action against social dumping, which the parties jointly require, but which the government is opposed to. We need it to make a transition to society. In welfare policy, we see that the daily allowance is cut. Over a billion dollars, the government has taken in from those who are unemployed, because they can afford to have it even a little tighter. The government says it will pursue a sustainable welfare policy in the future. The biggest threat to the welfare community in Norway is if you do not want to finance well-being. That's what's the big development. We have seen systematic attacks on the Norwegian model under this government. Siv Jensen says that she is against the Norwegian model, while the Right is trying to give the impression that this is something we agree on. We see the results clearly. Differences in wealth are increasing, differences in income are increasing, Gini coefficients say differences are increasing. There's a lot of people out there. There is a lower employment rate than in a very long time, and more young people are unemployed and more dependent on social assistance. When the government of the throne says that in Norway we have small differences and that the government will work to keep it that way, it is probably an example of the same rhetorical grips from the government. The reality is that the government blinks to the left, but turns to the right. It's a development that we want to contribute to turning around.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3776	The choice of the harvest gave a whole new parliamentary situation. The majority of the parties from the previous period, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, which in June reversed the voluntary decision of 1995 and merged municipalities and counties with coercion, no longer have a majority. For this reason, the Centre Party has today tabled proposals for the recasting of the decision of the Stortingen Forced Decision of June this year. The suggestions hardly come as a surprise to anyone. They were clearly notified in comments on the treatment by the Storting of changes in municipal structure and on the reclassification of the regional population. The majority of these cases have moved after the big shot. The coercion of 31 municipalities to 9 new large municipalities was made by a very limited majority, contrary to the conditions for the reform. The parties that voted against the use of coercion – the Labour Party, the Christian People’s Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party – now have a majority. In terms of coercion of states, it's a little different, since the Christian People's Party supported this. But I have noticed that representatives of the party have stated that the new county map is poorly justified, and have asked questions about the appropriateness. The representative, Mr Sigbjørn Tuskedal, expressed in the debate in June what I think many people really felt in that debate. He said, ‘That we have managed to find a solution that no parties agree on must be proof that we can work together, because we have a common result where no one is entirely satisfied.’ We can't have a state structure in this country that nobody's satisfied with. From the Right, the Progress Party and the Left, our proposals have been tried to stamp as an expression of resistance to any reform that modernises and streamlines the country. Clearly, these parties are not concerned that our resistance to coercion is shared in both the municipalities and the county councils concerned, even by very many of these parties' own local representatives. The local public opinion is low in the government and the support players here at Stortinget. At least we've recorded that. The center party wants services near people. We want to decentralize the administration of Norway. We are opposed to government's centralisation reforms that move services away from people and concentrate public jobs into fewer places. The Central Party wants a reform policy that decentralises tasks and provides a basis for jobs and housing across the country. The central party is voting against centralisation reforms and for decentralisation reforms. We have great support for this in the population. There's a reason we've doubled the population. As in the previous magnification period, we will also take initiatives over the next four years for reforms that provide the country with a decentralised service and that strengthen local democracy. The so-called local democracy reform, as the government called the municipal reform, weakens the possibility of influence and participation. I have received many enquiries from local politicians that put their trust in the Stortinget to re-establish decisions on the coercion of municipalities and counties. The feedback from me has been that there is absolute hope. I have also received enquiries from local politicians who have bowed to the pressure to accept municipal reunification because they feel that the redistribution of income between municipalities has become great. The new income system for municipalities was transformed into the budget for 2017. The usual justification for the changes is actual changes in the factors of the income system. On the change of the year, the government provided a substantial additional justification, namely that they should lubricate the municipal reform. This led to the loss of small and medium-sized municipalities, while large municipalities won. They also agreed that the breakdown grant that will run from 2020 should be based in the 2016 level. And then we had $300 million. NOK from the discretionary funds of the municipalities used for merged municipalities. It's a huge sum we're talking about, and it's a huge redistribution. The representative Schou characterized it in the Smälen Newspaper as a solid gift package for the merged municipalities of Inner Eastfold. I agree, but it's at the expense of someone. The government has provided a solid redistribution from small to large municipalities, and from municipalities that choose to continue as their own municipalities, to municipalities that are merged. The centre party has gone against these changes. We want to provide equivalent services to the inhabitants of the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3813	We have set behind us a demanding four-year period with the refugee crisis and the worst oil price fall of 30 years. As many as 50,000 have lost their jobs as a result of the oil price drop. There has been a difficult situation for the individual who lost his job, for the companies that had reduced turnover and profitability overnight, and for society as a whole. Now we see that the arrow points in the right direction again. Unemployment is falling, growth is rising, and more people are coming to work. It's important to listen to someone who knows the shoe press. I have been in many meetings with the business community, and the feedback has been clear: we have a government that has been out there meeting management and employees, who are listening, and who is taking the necessary action. It's important, not only in the industries that have encountered adversity, but also where things are going well. We went to elections both in 2013 and 2017 to facilitate the creation of new, profitable jobs that contribute to the state budget and that can contribute to ensuring a sustainable welfare society. The oil price drop showed with all clarity how important this is. Throughout the period we have been behind, there has been a massive focus on knowledge, competence, innovation and industrial research and development, on infrastructure and on growth-promoting tax incentives. The feedback from business is that this is proper medicine, together with a sound economic policy. We'll continue to do this and strengthen it in the period we're now going into. At the same time, we see that we are facing new challenges as we enter a new growth period. I'll take three areas. Firstly, digitalisation, robotization and automation are and will be important for Norwegian business in the coming years. New technologies will challenge established business processes and business models in a way that will certainly be perceived as a problem for many. But, above all, this is a great opportunity to create new and exciting jobs, to move jobs back to Norway and to provide the basis for more profitable jobs to contribute to the government budget in the years to come. New technology offers new opportunities. Secondly, stringent environmental requirements are necessary to achieve the climate objectives. At the same time, however, there is a competitive advantage that can contribute to the development of new environmental technologies, based on Norway. Especially in the maritime area, we are in a unique position, with strong and complete world-class clusters, great innovation skills and long traditions. In my own state, More and Romesdal, there are many companies that are completely in the top of the world in their fields. New technologies are being developed in these companies and will contribute to tomorrow's low- and zero-emission solutions. In the transport sector, digitisation and stringent environmental requirements will change the way we think about transport, and it's going to go faster than we think. We are already seeing that established business models are being challenged as a result of new technology, for example. in the taxi industry. The sharing and dissemination economy is at full speed into the transport sector, and autonomous vehicles and ships will become a reality in the next few years. The electrification of the transport sector is in full swing and will contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. New technologies will provide new and better solutions for citizens, and it is our job to facilitate this. Thirdly, we must continue to renew and modernise the public sector. It is necessary for our citizens to have good services in the coming years. And that's absolutely essential for us to have a sustainable welfare offer, and for us to be able to provide our children with the knowledge they need to solve tomorrow's tasks. In a society where changes are accelerating, the solution is not reform breaks, reversals and increased taxes, as several parties call for. On the contrary, we must continue to renew ourselves, use new technology to provide a better offer to the inhabitants and make sure that we use the community's money effectively. Our ability to develop and deploy new technologies is crucial for our competitiveness. In the transport sector, we have made many changes. We have e.g. established New Roads AS. There is great resistance from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Already now we see that New Roads build faster and more efficiently and save society from heavy costs. It contributes to a more sustainable welfare society. I am proud to be on a team that has run the country safely over a demanding period. The Prime Minister and the Government have shown both the will to govern and the ability to govern. At the same time, the civil majority has identified important issues for the country and laid the basis for safe and stable governance. That's what we're going to do for the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3836	It's nice to be back after the election! The Trontals show that the government will pursue an ambitious foreign policy, a policy in which we will put our own interests first in line with that of other countries – which, moreover, should be a matter of course. Putting the interests of one’s own country first does not mean that foreign policy cannot deal well with the world. For example, no one has benefited from Norway's policy on immigration, as has been done in the past. If Norway is to be able to maintain a society based on good, liberal common values, immigration must be strictly regulated. The overall focus must be to assimilate values and seek out common arenas. A good, successful and sound immigration policy cannot be measured on its own, but on the basis of whether those who come to Norway themselves take the initiative to take advantage of the opportunities offered by our society and become active contributors. The long-term defence plan, LTP, is ambitious and will be difficult to implement. That's why it's good that there's a large majority behind the plan. The Land Power Study will complement the LTP and give the Defence Force increased fighting power. The LTP is not the end of the government's defense bet. That's the beginning. Norway has joined NATO’s ambitious target of using 2 pst. of GDP on defence, which means investment in addition to LTP. We have the need, and we have the money. At the same time, let's be honest and admit that it's not unmistakable that a plan can be something more expensive to implement than what the calculations suggest in advance. That being said, it is not wrong calculations to decide whether Norway is fulfilling its obligations. It's the fighting force that decides. Therefore, it is the ambition of the Progress Party to strengthen Defence beyond what is in the LTP. Over time, we will continue to approach the 2pst goal, which our national meeting has adopted. If we are to succeed in that, we must even more closely involve our own defence industry. As many other countries do, we should actively use strengthening of our own defence to actively strengthen the defence industry. Increased fighting power can contribute, in parallel, to industrial fighting power and technological development. At the same time, it will create synergies within high-technology in general. The Labour Party parliamentary leader made an article earlier today that forces me to focus somewhat differently than I had thought. The representative Gahr Støre pointed out that Norway’s relationship with the EU through the EEA and our membership of NATO is established – and that is, of course, considered to be negligible. However, the challenge for the head of the Workers' Party is that neither the EEA as a cooperation tool nor NATO as an organisation itself is firmly established. In other words, the representative Gahr Støre says that Norway should sit quietly in the boat while the boat is moving quickly. This is a small vision of Norway’s place and role. Otherwise I registered that Gahr Støre continues the campaign. The favorite is that the Advance Party is to the right of the Right. Genuine polemics, but in no uncertain terms with the people – something the voters once again saw through. Since the party was founded, the party has represented most of the people, and our voters have in particular been recruited from an elitist and little popular Workers' Party. So every time Gahr Støre repeats this undermining analysis, he kicks his former voters on the team. Norway has been involved in various international operations for many years. There have been peacekeeping and peace-building operations and war operations. Our war operations have occurred exclusively through NATO, or so-called the Coalition of the Willing. Many dilemmas arise in such operations. You have to think about whether war operations have the desired consequences. NATO's initial involvement in Afghanistan was a mission under Article 5 of the NATO Pact and Norway contributed, of course. In Afghanistan, things have gone from bad to worse. The Taliban is currently controlling 70 pst. of the country. In the extension of this, 50,000 American weapons are on the way. They were initially given to Afghan security forces and then disappeared. Another paradox is that the United States has spent more money in Afghanistan than it did in order to return Europe after the Second World War — more than Marshall’s aid. There is no phased response to this, but it is important that Norway carry out independent analyses of Norwegian involvement, but of course in close dialogue with NATO’s other Member States. The same shall apply to any extended exposure on the day on which the Islamic State is repressed. It is essential that Norway pursue its own security policy interests. These are based in particular on a strong alliance defence within the framework of NATO. Article 5 ensures collective defence while Article 3 of NATO is a guarantee that members of the Alliance share and practice democratic values. This can be a challenge for the alliance in the relatively near future. Let it be clear that Norway has a strong interest in the world being based on international law and strong institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3861	Few governments have had such opportunities as the one we now have. Then there's reason to ask why you don't use those possibilities better, for example. to create smaller differences, which we know will be both economically profitable and create a better life for many who are struggling. Why aren't more green jobs created when everyone talks about it being necessary, and some of the solutions are right in front of us? The government says they want sustainable well-being. This is agreed by the Swedish authorities, but it is not possible to continue with a policy where, for example: make child protection a store when child protection is provided. No one pays taxes for international unit trusts and speculators to earn search warrants for offers in child protection, private kindergartens or the care of the elderly. But that's what happens now. That's what the citizens want more of, and the Workers' Party has so far not wanted to be with and put down its feet for. It is not about small entrepreneurs, parent-run kindergartens or the important contribution of non-governmental organisations to well-being, because it is SV for. An ugly effect of this privatisation is the loss of employees in kindergartens, child protection, elderly care and cleaning, and they are not highly paid – like those to whom the government has provided tax relief. The money earned is taken from low wages that do the job, and given to the owners of companies. That's SV against. There's a terrible gender equality policy too, because it's mostly women doing these jobs. I've asked a lot of people from the Advancement Party and the Right if they'll be with me in kindergarten and in the nursing home, look at the maids and cleaners right in their eyes and say, "You're making too much money, and you've got too much money in retirement." So far, no one has wanted to be involved, because they probably have some shame in life. SV believes that the tax people pay, should go to well-being and to pay those who actually do the job, and not be a new way for smart investors to make money. That's this sucker pipe down into the state fund, the common fund and our tax money, we want to close. It is not innovative to trick millions who are granted child protection and kindergartens, nor is it sustainable. There is no creation of a variety of eating off the heroes in care, those who actually do the job, with less pay and retirement. It is also not sustainable to recruit, and it is necessary. The government admits that many more should have such jobs in the future. It's not responsible to ask people to pay taxes for someone to earn a search warrant on this well-being. This isn't sustainable. It's necessary to put an end to it, because we have to spend our tax money to improve care and to give real pay and pensions to those who are going to do the job. I've been looking in the throne for how to create the green jobs in Norway, and I haven't found anything to say. I come from Hedmark, the county that has the most forest in this country. It is good and good when the government buys money for forest roads and higher axle loads, but it usually does much to drive the timber to Sweden, and there the green jobs develop on our raw material. I miss a real commitment from this government to create the green jobs that are climate-friendly, renewable, that people can live on in the future. There are many sectors it can happen on, but this is one of them. Anything you can make out of oil, you can make out of wood. A lot of people see this in other countries. Unfortunately, it does not seem that the government we have now sees that parts of these jobs need to come to Norway. Of course, there is a need for cross-border cooperation both at company level, at research level and at development level, but there is a need to put a real effort on the table – long-term – with research, development, state participation, patient participation, to create this change, this modern business, which has jobs that the climate and future generations can live with, and which are jobs where people have wages that they can also pay taxes on, and thus undermine welfare in the future. This isn't modern.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3880	In the Common Era, the government was committed to a sustainable welfare society. Municipalities and county councils are responsible for some of our most important welfare tasks: primary and secondary education, kindergartens and health care, care for the elderly and child protection. The municipalities are the carriers of what our community welfare society represents. Children, parents, relatives and patients are in daily contact with the municipal welfare services, services that cost money. For this reason, the Labour Party prioritised more money for the municipal sector than the majority for the whole of the previous ageing period. Here the Workers' Party will be very recognizable during the growing period that comes. We are still committed to having great ambitions on behalf of the service offered to the inhabitants of Norwegian municipalities. We are going to give priority to school, care for the elderly, health and kindergartens, and to enable municipalities to meet the responsibilities of climate change. Municipalities need to work smarter, deploy new technologies and digitise. Technology and digitisation will be central to jobs in all sectors, at all levels. There are great opportunities in technology development. Therefore, the Labour Party believes that we need a shift in the pace of public sector digitisation. We will intensify efforts to digitise public services. A shift in the pace of public sector digitisation is crucial for a more efficient public sector. Such changes require, in line with the best of the Norwegian model, good cooperation with the employees. We therefore need a trust reform in the public sector. And we need a government that understands the needs of the inhabitants, a government that accepts that not everyone is digital, as the pensioners today experience. The Labour Party is for public sector reforms which provide better services to citizens and which ensure efficient and functional management. But reforms must be filled with content. Moving borders on a map and calling it a reform is an abuse of the concept of reform. In his speech today, the Right parliamentary leader said that we must have said things to each other in the election campaign, which is a little bit more acute than what we are usually comfortable with. I think it sounds promising. Much has been said about the rhetoric in the immigration debate. And let me emphasize as strongly as I can: we must not fall into the trap and say that rhetoric is not politics. That's the highest degree. How to talk about matters has a lot to say about people's attitude to the questions. That is why we politicians have a heavy responsibility. The creation of a negative image of whole population groups through its policies and rhetoric has clearly contributed to more fragmentation and polarisation in society. Then we get a colder society. It's just as much about what's said, and what's not said. When the government has no ability to communicate much more than unrest and scepticism, we will be responsible for the debate becoming less black and white and less hard. That's why I think Right-wing politicians here on the Stortinget are raising an important topic, which I'm counting on also applies to the rhetoric used by the government in immigration debates. On the part of the Labour Party, we will call for fundamental values in Norwegian society – about human rights, about equality, about the freedom to make choices, as you wish. And that has to apply to everyone. We have to stand up for those who experience the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3897	I'm a little surprised at this persuasion debate. Where are the new points? Where's the new rhetoric? We just heard that rhetoric is politics. Where is the new policy? Where is the left-hand side's understanding that they lost this choice? It almost sounds like they won, like the majority of the Norwegian population wanted their policies during this period. That's wrong. The bourgeois parties won. It applies in all fields. This applies to economic policy, to labour policy, to municipal policy, to climate policy. There's nothing new under the sun. It can be frustrating to engage in the climate debate, because often the debate is abstract, it's about a future that we don't quite know what it's going to be like. Unfortunately, the debate on the environment and climate also ends up in trenches which are completely unnecessary, how harsh to the results of political opponents, but also to the results we achieve together, are completely absent. Those trenches take away time, time we could use to cooperate, time we could use to find good common solutions for how to tackle our main challenge, namely climate change. I want to mention two things. One is the conflict over people's intentions. We have already seen here today how some representatives from the left have tried to doubt the intentions of the civil side of the climate exposure. It slows us down, because every time it's on the agenda, we have to discuss it instead of discussing the good solutions. The second is oil and gas. It overshadows the whole debate, the shades never come out, it's basically just those with the most outraged views that come out in the media. And what's wrong with the nuances disappearing in that debate? Well, that's how we can work to get global greenhouse gas emissions down, or how we, for example. can help the people of Tanzania, where they mainly only use charcoal, which is dangerous for both people and climate. The time when only those who want to stop all of Norwegian production, who have to put the agenda on the climate issue, must be over. There are no good debates when they are only reduced to extremes. Over the last four years, the bourgeois majority has pursued offensive climate policies. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party strengthened the climate agreement, and we raised the ambitions of climate policy. Trends in emissions have been reversed. We are getting closer and closer to the targets we have set for cutting greenhouse gas emissions. Enova has never received a higher grant. We have launched offensive climate work in the municipalities. We have maintained international efforts to limit the loss of rainforests that bind greenhouse gases. We are focusing heavily on the development of new technologies to cut emissions and get more green jobs. By a civil majority, there is a record in electric cars, with a red-green majority, there was a record in the number of diesel cars. Now we're saying that all new vehicles are going to be zero and low-emission vehicles from 2025. With the efforts of the bourgeois majority on river ferries, we have become the world leader in this field. There has never been any more investment in rail and public transport in the past. This can be done, among other things: Look in my home municipality, Oslo. New T-Bahn tunnel is coming. The Fornebuban is coming. Better cross-linking in Groruddalen is coming. With this government, it is possible for all major cities to intensify their efforts on public transport. The targets are clear. Greenhouse gas emissions have fallen. It shall not be a resting-room, but it is an important point that greenhouse gas emissions are falling as the growth of the economy rises. We are sometimes told that an economic policy that contributes to more jobs and that contributes to growth cannot go hand in hand with a responsible climate policy that reduces emissions. This majority has shown that that contradiction has been killed. It doesn't exist, it's not real, and that's because we're saying it's worth choosing environmentally friendly. We are the generation that has to succeed in the work of climate change, but then we have to cooperate, and then we have to get out of the trenches.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3918	In fact, I think it has been a disappointing debate so far, especially when I have heard speakers and women from the government parties. The debate on the throne shall initially focus on the languages of the throne. The throne is the government's speech to the Stortinget, the government's programme for the future. Where is the policy, asked the last speaker. I really have to say that – because it is little to hear about the future in the debate today from the speakers of the government parties. What plans exist? What are the ideas? What is the objective of future Norway? The government parties have largely talked about the elections, the election results, the Workers' Party and even the Elections of the Workers' Party. And I understand they've got the same debate education. I hear words like the Workers' Party lost the election – yes, that's right. But I also hear that the right side has been given renewed trust, clear mandate, and some have even used words such as that the right side was given a clear majority! I think I'd gone a little bit quieter in the doors. Let it be clear: the Labour Party made a poor choice. We went back by over 3 percent points. But the four cooperating parties from the previous period also made a poor choice. All of the four batches went back – together with over 5 percentage points. The ones that went forward were the other red-green parties that wanted a government shift -- they went forward by over 8 percentage points. There is no popular requirement for more right-wing policy in Norway, fortunately. The Right Party and the Advance Party should calm down the language; they should calm down the self-satisfaction and use the forces to build our country further. It was as far as the boat carried – it is the reality after the election. The right hand side and the progress side now have to tell us what they're going to do in the future. We hear very little about that. In June, the Stortinget examined the national transport plan. There is a large plan for the development of transport policy and the transport sector in Norway over the next 12 years. In my post, I said that we have the world's luckiest Minister of Transport with the economic space we have in Norway, which will be used for transport and transport in the years to come. I can add: We, who are members of the Committee on Transport and Communications of the Storting, are the world's luckiest transport committee, because there is probably no government and no parliament around the world to spend so much money on infrastructure. If we take a record high level of tolls, we're going to spend over 1,000 billion. kr for transport purposes for the next 12 years. That's good, and it makes us have great opportunities to develop our country, but there's also a lot of need. If we are to succeed in achieving the goals we have for what we want with Norway, better communication is needed. People have to get to work, and businesses have to get their products transported. We need to expand broadband and apply new technology. It's also part of future communications. Transport policy is very often, to a large extent, about roads, railways and airports. But it's also about the sea and our coast, about postal and telecommunications, about digitisation and new technologies. We also need to talk about this, and this is also the solution for future societies. Norway has great opportunities on the road to our low-carbon society. If we now make the right decisions, if we now facilitate the creation of a transport sector, the creation of residential areas and the creation of a business that is shaped for the future, yes, then we can achieve our climate goals. Let's, sitting in this room, remind each other that our job is really about making society and everyday life a little bit better, a little bit simpler. That's why we're elected to this assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3935	The representative Heggelund believes that the opposition has no new ideas. Have we been to the same meeting today? We were presented with a throne speech that did not contain new policies, no new visions, at least not in the climate field. A large number have been presented – I would say historical, at least on the SV side – representatives’ proposals in the debate today. There are many proposals for a more ambitious climate policy. It was with great joy that I listened to the representative Heggelund's outlining good climate policy adopted by the red-green government. This collapse is facing major challenges. We now notice seriously the consequences of climate change, and they meet us as inequalities grow between countries and people. The biggest refugee disaster since World War II is shaking us, and in several countries, leaders are now being chosen to distance people and make international cooperation more difficult. It is therefore urgently and seriously necessary to address the task of limiting greenhouse gas emissions in a way that reduces differences between countries and people. Climate policy is precisely both environmental policy and distribution policy. The consequences are most severe for the poorest, while the richest countries have the highest emissions. But no one has more right to emit greenhouse gases than others. Norway has used up its carbon budget. If Norway is to take its share of responsibility, we must halve emissions by 2030. It's quite possible, but we're unfortunately far away. It must have consequences for all political decisions during this period. Where the government fails, the cities go ahead. I'm proud of Oslo's climate action. It arouses international enthusiasm. I am particularly proud of the commitment to zero-emission technology, public transport and car-free urban life. SV is today promoting a representative proposal with 42 proposals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway during this large-scale period. We will go from setting long-term targets, which are constantly being pushed on, to adopting concrete measures that will have the effect of this ageing period. I would like to invite the other parties to adopt a more ambitious climate policy. This summer Statoil has conducted a major exploration campaign in the Barents Sea. If we base climate justice and carbon budgets, it is right to conclude that it is wrong to let countries and other companies look for and extract more oil and gas. It is not my priority to set the dates for Norway to stop producing oil and gas. Instead, as a representative, I will follow the same advice that I gave as environmental protection in the past: the most important thing to start the transition away from oil is to stop looking for it. That is why we are also promoting today a proposal to stop the 24th concession round. It would also be a good idea for the Norwegian economy. I am concerned that the government has not succeeded in converting Norway during the period we have had low oil prices. It is now announced that oil investments are on the way up again. This means that oil dependence will continue, like Norway’s high climate pressure. We have to prepare for a reality with a permanently lower oil price. Internationally, we see that wind power, solar power and batteries are experiencing major technological developments and major cost reductions. Animal oil and gas are no longer competitive. Later, cheaper oil and gas will meet the wall. This period will work for Norway to become less oil dependent, for lower greenhouse gas emissions and for better framework conditions for climate solutions. I hope more will be with us on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3951	First, I would like to tell the representative Tom-Christer Nilsen that I do not share the concern he has for today's traditional oil workers. The working party is concerned that we should use that competence when we switch to new, green jobs. But to extract that potential, we need a safe working life. We must then protect workers' rights, not weaken them. Creative and competent people will be the foundation wall in the construction of new green industries. There is nothing to suggest that today's oilworks will not work in the future, for example. the furniture industry. Norway has the best conditions to succeed in the changes we are going to make if we apply it. We often forget that the innovation power in the oil industry is great. At IKM Haaland, a company with 92 employees in Vigrestad, Rogaland, we see a perfect example of this, a supplier industry related to the oil industry that is now part of a furniture and design adventure that extends from Tokyo to Times Square, which creates green outdoor areas where cars were previously driven. IKM Haaland is one of Europe's best and most modern companies in plate processing. This company is currently making parts of the furniture products for Sundays and Westerns. If the quality requirements in the offshore and military industries are combined with world-class design, something interesting emerges. Because when a supplier industry manufacturing quality machinery for oil production transfers this knowledge to e.g. furniture, receives a product of a quality which receives international attention. This is not a groundbreaking observation, but the interesting question is whether this will happen if the workplaces are unsafe. So this is more than just a controlled closure of the oil industry or not. The Norwegian model of cooperation in the labour market, with high levels of competence, small differences and high levels of confidence, is crucial. This model is the basis for building the skills and willingness to change required to succeed in a situation in which the person currently exists, with rapid changes. It is therefore important to call for a safe working life, rights for workers and tripartite cooperation. Otherwise, a simple bomb on the green switch. The symbiosis of the Progress Party and the Right has taken away important rights for workers and trade unions in their first four years. They're building down the winning model. They make our working life less adaptable and less innovative, with insecure workers with less determination over working life, more temporaryity and many outside the ordinary working life. So to the representative of Stensland: Yes, new attacks on the work environment law will be demanding to get through to the Right Party government. The innovation power is not in the hands of those who work on three-month contracts. They're actually standing with their cell phone in their hands and waiting for new assignments. At Vigrestad, design furniture is now made on the same machines as oil machinery is made on, not because design furniture is the new oil, but because the Norwegian model works – a model it is important for the Workers' Party to fight for in this room when the Right and Advance Party once again form government. The Workers' Party will pay tribute to companies like Vigrestad, which create tomorrow's jobs – the green jobs where permanent work is the main rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3972	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3977	In the West, it has been tough for a long time to be a nester. With over 100 offshore ships for berth, it's a sad sight. It is difficult to be shipyards with a lack of new contractors, and the supplier industry has been hit hard because of the oil price drop. Too many have been hooked on the door, while others have been able to find new solutions in related industries and have been working on new solutions through technology development and new cooperation with other actors. Tens of thousands of employees have lived with uncertain times and have truly taken their share of responsibility through lay-offs and wage negotiations. The government’s understanding of the situation has been very poor and the measures are not accurate. Climate problems are one of the greatest challenges of our time and one of the areas we need to raise on the political agenda, with forward-looking policies. Enterprise development from a climate perspective will be an important and crucial interaction in this area. Policy climate requirements, instruments to support the development of new and better solutions, secure and predictable framework conditions and better solutions have been achieved. But we're going to be doing oil and gas production for decades to come. Most likely, the market is going to control how long we actually keep going. Our job is to run properly and build bridges to get more and ‘larger business legs’ to stand on the way forward, so that we can relate to the OECD message that we in Norway need to double mainland exports by 2040 in order to maintain today’s welfare level. The Paris Agreement imposes a change in the pace of climate policy on Norway. That's what the Norwegian people do too. But what does the government do? Left, at Ketil Kjenseth, stands today on the pulpit and says that the snow is the new oil. Then I say, "Good luck, Erna." You have a job to do with that collaboration. However, as an opposition, we do not trust that the government has the necessary political power to act, and will in this period promote many important proposals for which we shall have a majority – proposals that help reduce emissions in the transport sector and which can help business to actually build up that technology. We need to reduce emissions in industry, and we need to build an instrument that can contribute to nutrient development in this area. We have a lot of excitement to deal with, but we have a lot of responsibility, and I say like Kjersti Kleben, that we're going to develop new technology, but we also have to get better at what we're already good at. Because it is possible to take with it already existing technology and solve completely new challenges. It is forward-looking, and then we must have a clear industrial policy and an industrial policy that builds up under it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e3990	It is known to most people in our kingdom that Northland states and the whole of North Norway are going down under today's government. We have a better economic development than the rest of the country. New Nordic records are constantly being set, not only in low unemployment but also in the turnover and export of primary industries. However, it is most gratifying to record that the recruitment of young people to the regional industries of fisheries and agriculture is increasing — after decades of decline. On the other hand, there is one export record for North and North Norway, and that is the export of youth southwards. North Norway has a shortage of labour and a need for skills, so this is a big paradox. That is why we must say yes to developing and creating values of the enormous Nordic natural resources – both on the sea and on land. We must agree to create new sustainable and exciting jobs with new technological and environmentally friendly solutions. This is essentially about the political signals we send to our youth. We politicians must be the future optimists, we must be the bellows – and we must show the way to the future. History will show if this greatness understood the time we lived in, enough to create the future in which the youth wants to invest. So I have a hope that we'll get better at saying yes to the possibilities, and less no. Young people in Northern Norway must have faith that the country will develop, that resources will be developed and that it will be invested in a future in which young people will want to participate – for their country, for their part of the country and for our country. Then I have a desire for more political promotion of sustainable development to more and more environmentally conscious young people, with more political rhetoric about changing to preserve. As you know, political compromises are perfect only when all parties get what they do not want. Therefore, the green shift must not go into the environmental trap. We must not stop everything we do so well, and we must develop further – which we earn money on, and which creates today's well-being. The green shift is about new knowledge, technology development and value creation in a greener and more sustainable direction, with better co-existence on our globe. Good political compromises are required to facilitate the use of our large natural resources on the sea and on land in a new and forward-looking way. In particular, I want good political compromises for the development of resources on our 'north globe'.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4005	Today, the World Mental Health Day is marked. Psychiatric disorders are a major societal challenge today. In many ways, it's one of the big taboos in society. Prevention of mental health problems is an important part of public health policy. Psychiatric health problems are a burden both for patients and for relatives. This leads to a reduction in the quality of life for many. This leads to increased incapacity for work, and mental health problems take lives. I wish it was just as acceptable to say that you are looking for health care for your mental health, as it is to say that you are going to the doctor, that it was just as normal to say that you have mental health problems or challenges, as if you have hurt your stomach, or that you have stunned your foot. I wish that all business leaders, teachers and neighbors met challenges with understanding, knowledge and a helping hand. I think we've come a long way, but unfortunately society is not free from negative attitudes to mental health problems. For some, openness around mental health is associated with stigmatisation, shame and closed doors. Negative attitudes to mental health are both disease-promoting and disease-preserving. Being open about mental health disorders can have consequences in the lives of individuals, for example: when it comes to school, workplace or social networking. I wonder what society would have looked like if the same prejudices had been found against physical diseases like against the psychics -- if someone who's broken his leg, is asked to just get together, or if you look at the cancer patient and think, yeah, he's probably just like. I think attitudes are fundamental. We need to create a secure framework in everyday life, both to prevent mental health challenges and to meet those who need help in a good way. Safe neighbourhoods, a good psychosocial environment at work and at school and flexible working life arrangements are fundamental to creating an inclusive society. Many of the challenges are created and can be solved and prevented in local communities and municipalities. I believe that we need a concrete and active policy to enable the municipalities to meet the challenges they are going to do. In the Centre Party, we have proposed a municipal mental health escalation plan which represents a significant commitment to prevention, public health and inclusion at local level. Society is served with transparency about mental health and focus in that area. I don't think we can afford not to. We need to bet on mental health to save lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4020	The languages of the throne were really not very much to raise themselves above. It was more gray than blue, but it is probably a result of the government's weakening of its control room after the election – although that fact has gone on, among other things. The representatives Heggelund and Wiborg's house passed by, as I understood. There will be major challenges that would be expected to be solved here by the government. The challenges will include: be getting more people to work. If, as the government itself points out in the throne, we are to have a sustainable welfare society, more people have to get into ordinary work. In my own home country, Eastfold, too many people are not in work, especially young people are out of work in Eastfold. This is not sustainable, and there is perhaps the biggest challenge. People must have a job to go to. At least we can't settle down and let the youth know that society doesn't need them. Then it will carry the wrong place. The working party will continue to prioritise work for all. Good tripartite cooperation is the key to creating more jobs. Another key is labour skills reform, which will strengthen both individual workers and businesses, and contribute to increased competitiveness. I have spoken to many of the Østfold companies, and they are positive to such tripartite cooperation. I hope the government will follow it up. Combating social dumping, ensuring that Norwegian pay and working conditions are the same, are also essential for a safe working life. A serious work life in Norway is also the key to a sustainable welfare society. In the election campaign there were representatives of the government parties in Eastfold who promised to build up the hospital in Eastfold, they promised to change the air passenger fee, so that Rygge airport can be reopened, and they had some other promises that we will follow in the time that comes. Perhaps the answer to some of this might come on Thursday. So I noticed in the throne that the government believes that small differences are a strength for Norway. Then such a principle should also be reflected in government policy over the next few weeks and months. It remains to be seen. Finally, a few hours ago, I registered that the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party, Hans Andreas Limi, said from Stortinget's pulpit that several municipalities have introduced property taxes without that being necessary. I just have to encourage the representative Limi to refer to the list he clearly has of these municipalities that have introduced property taxes without that being necessary. I'm pretty sure there are many in this room, but also outside this room, who will be very interested to hear the representative Limi refer to the municipalities that have done this exercise.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4035	The choice has given us one of the youngest big ones ever. Whatever you might think of it, I hope that more young voices can help renew the political change. Because there's one thing that's certain, is that we're going to experience another political landscape in the next few years. The Perspective Communication shows that by the end of 2020 we will have a sub-funded welfare state, there will be fewer unemployed per pensioner. More and more will benefit from well-being, but fewer will be involved in financing it. When the economic space becomes smaller, we get a greater responsibility for thinking new. We can no longer reduce Norwegian policy to just be a quarrel about who can afford a little more for everything. We have to get more and better well-being out of every single penny that is granted over the budgets. I am quite optimistic, because the Right has shown that new solutions exist and that they can work. The course of cancer packages showed that patients could get faster and better follow-up by simply organising the service differently. By organising home services differently, with interdisciplinary health teams and new technologies, several municipalities will succeed better in the care of the elderly. The imposition of stricter requirements for the provision of welfare services ensures that fewer ports outside the Community and that more people experience benefits. These examples inspire. It shows us that politics is not necessarily just about giving up to a warmer society, but that new political solutions can lay the framework for man to master his own life, for freedom to make his own choices and take responsibility for himself and his family. I agree that we are facing a policy choice in Norway – not between those who are in favour of or against Community solutions, but between those who are able to develop new solutions that ensure the welfare of future generations, and those who doubt that people are going to pay more in taxes now because politicians are not able to better solve their tasks. We can't treasure ourselves away from the necessary transformations. Important values on which our society is built, which create belonging and trust, are not preserved through the drought of reform. At a time of great social change, we need a responsible and active reform policy. The community of generations is not just a pleasant idea; it is a moral obligation. It limits our freedom of action. That means we have to stand up in priority debates. This means that we need to invest in new technologies that decouple economic growth with increased greenhouse gas emissions. We need to get a welfare state that is more capable of helping those who need it the most. It may be that the big money party is over, but I think we can have the same fun after-playing if we dare to think new.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4048	In recent years, parts of Norwegian business have been through a difficult period. The petroleum industry and its supply and service industries have undergone a tough conversion process. The level of costs has been reduced – it has been necessary to ensure the competitiveness of the players on the Norwegian pedestal. Nevertheless, the price has been high. Unfortunately, the result is a significant increase in unemployment along the west and north-west, where some municipalities in my home country, Møre and Romsdal, now experience unemployment of over 6 p.m. Fortunately, businesses in the maritime cluster show an impressive ability to change. It gives hope for better times. Nevertheless, as politicians, we must actively contribute the tools we have in the toolbox to break the negative trend and get people back into work. Then business tax relief is an important step. We in the Christian People's Party will stand by our obligations in the tax settlement in the coming period, and we will help to reduce the wealth tax on working capital and eventually abolish it. In the difficult times for parts of Norwegian business, we have also seen another trend worth noting: the primary industries of fisheries, aquaculture and agriculture, including the food industry, have delivered solid results and partly adventurous growth in earnings in recent years. This has led to an increasing number of eyes that land, farming concessions and fishing vessels with associated quotas are interesting investment objects for good and safe returns. Ensuring good and predictable framework conditions for primary industries has been a pillar of the Christian People's Party's industrial policy for all years. We have had as a fundamental principle of our policy that control of land and fishing resources should lie with farmers and fishermen. In this way, we ensure that there is still light in the windows of small coastal communities, and that jobs are created and maintained in District Norway. The Christian People's Party will pursue a policy based on the principles of the Participation Act, the Maritime Resource Act and the Fisheries Sales Act. Norwegian fishermen shall still be in control of vessels and quotas and shall have the last words when fixing the price of catches. Our party has also been a guarantor that the main lines of Norwegian agricultural policy have been fixed in the period behind us. Annual separate agricultural settlements, the continuation of the interoperability model for market regulation and active import protection will also be key elements of our agricultural policy in the coming years. We are pleased that farmers who have dared to invest in economies of scale, new technologies and increased production have been well-counted in the last farm business. For us, it will now be a priority task to ensure that small and medium-sized applications also receive an income gap that improves earnings and promotes generational shifts rather than closure. Minor uses have a key role to play in ensuring continued operation in more difficult agricultural areas, keeping the cultural landscape open and achieving the objective of increased food production. In this way, improved economy and profitability are essential to ensure the breadth of Norwegian agriculture — both geographically and in size.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4065	Female entrepreneurs and local entrepreneurs have provided close to full child care coverage and high-quality kindergartens. The private actors were tapped by SV when the job was to be done, but now private actors are being produced in the welfare sector as a social problem. They are described as ‘welfare barons’ and ‘welfare profitors’. This is good rhetoric – it belongs in mention of those who enriched themselves in cooperation with the occupying power, but not in describing private kindergartens. Those who work in kindergartens, and tens of thousands of happy children and parents who use the offer, do not recognize themselves. Interactions between private, non-profit and public services are needed to deliver increasingly better services. We learn from each other, we correct mistakes, and we cut costs. Often it's the privates who are the innovators, and instead of swearing them, the left-hand side should salute them. The private actors are involved in lifting Velferds-Norway. Who's on the SV and Red's list of privates to be clipped in the next round? Is that the opticians? Are those the prosthetics? Are those dentists? The ban on profit is absurd. SV claimed that the Right has an explanation problem – that all SV wants is to ensure that the tax money goes to what they want, namely for welfare and not for profit. Well, of course, we fully agree with that. Tax money set aside for well-being shall be made available to well-being. And that's how it is today. The money going to the private kindergarten gives tens of thousands of children a very good kindergarten, yes, often a better kindergarten, but at the same price as the public. And this is interesting. For the representative Lysbakken further claimed that this is simple, we just have to make sure that the tax money we give to private goes to well-being, as in public. Yeah, let's think about it a little bit. In Norway’s 10 largest municipalities, there is a wide variation in resource use and a wide variation in the performance of welfare services. That means that not all the crowns allocated to public welfare go to well-being. When it is wasted in public enterprises, yes, then the head is stabbed in the sand, but when a private enterprise goes with profits, yes, then there are profiters who are on the move. Privates contribute with innovation, cost control and rather often better quality. It is not a single private nursery in Norway that gets a single penny more per child than the public in the same municipality. Privates have contributed to the implementation of one of the SV's political victories: the childcare conciliation. Thanks are suspicions, and other welfare actors should be aware of this. It is unsafe to live as a private trader if SV gets influence with its policy. Women entrepreneurs become welfare barons; local enterprises with hard-working owners become welfare professionals. How can SV and Red defend public waste with tax money, while private, popular and efficient use of your and my money is something you want to live to? The left-hand side is concerned with charging unnecessary taxes to feed its ideological chefs. The right is dedicated to providing all the best possible services.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4082	When presenting the new cost keys to the income system of county councils in the previous period, all, including the government, recognised that there were uncertainties and weaknesses in the conversion. In particular, the factors for boat and ferry operations were poorly investigated, and temporary compensation was granted for several years to cover some of the underfinancing. Boat and ferry services are essential for the infrastructure of export-oriented regions with growth along the coast. In the municipality proposal for 2018, the government presented a new cost key for boat and ferry operations, partly based on investigations from Møreforsking. There is still no optimum basis for compensating counties with large boat and ferry costs. In other words, it is not possible to give citizens an equivalent offer throughout the country. This weakens the ability of citizens to deliver their part in order to achieve some of the objectives listed in the Common Era. The Centre Party has called for a better explanation of the technical grounds on which new keys are based, in its comments on the Municipal Proposition for 2018. The centre party showed, among other things: to a large extent determine the costs of ferry operations by factors such as capacity needs, range and distance. The dimensioning of the vessels, and therefore also the costs, are not always related to the number of passengers, school trips or coastal distances. The centre party also called for a better and wider assessment of the factors in the cost keys for boat and ferry operations in the state budget for 2018. We expect this to come when the budget is presented later this week. There is a large maintenance run on the county roads. Many of these were included when the county councils were transferred to a large part of the national roads in 2010. According to the KS and the evidence base for the national transport plan, there is an annual need between 1.5 and 2 billion. kr more to maintain today’s standard on the county roads. Several parties have considered that this could not possibly be covered by the normal framework transfers to the county municipalities and have arranged for a 10-year national maintenance programme for the county roads. The central party, together with SV, promoted a proposal in connection with Stortinget's treatment of the municipality proposal for 2018, where it called: ‘The government is asked to set up a 10-year national maintenance programme for the county roads in 2018 in proposals for the state budget.’ Infrastructural investment is often highlighted as one of the most important to improve the competitive conditions of business throughout the country and, consequently, tax access to finance well-being. This can not only happen through the collection of national road tolls by the present government. This must include, inter alia: also by enabling county councils to maintain and renew the county road network, which the Central Party proposed in the draft revised budget to start with a budget of 0,5 billion. kr. The Central Party invites the Government and the Government to follow up, so that over a few years, the counties will be able to close the line of maintenance of the county roads, and that an equivalent offer will be made for growth throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4107	Children shall not grow up with the sound of shooting and shock grenades in the school yard, but about the emergency centre on Taraldrud, to which reference was made in the census, being built without any improvement, is the future of the children in the Uppegård municipality. 850 metres from the kindergarten shall be trained with explosives and up to 3000 shots per day on an open shooting path. The children of the Garden will grow up with the sound of explosives and shots from they stand up, until they lie down. The mayor of Oppegård has warned that the noise is getting so high that the children in the kindergarten can no longer even sleep outside, and that the noise is becoming so annoying that the police don't get training at night. Terrorism preparedness is important. SV wants a new police emergency centre as soon as possible, but if the centre is to be good, it must be built in a way that does not overrun the community, which does not cause children to grow up with the sound of shooting and shock grenades, and which ensures good practice for the police. The noise from the shooting ranges will now become so painful that the police will not practice as much as they want. This is serious, because quantity training is the most important thing for good preparedness. That's why we should build the shooting paths on Taraldrud. If we build the shooting paths, we dampen the noise, and the police can practice 24 hours a day 365 days a year. Integration provides better preparedness. The use of heavy explosives must be limited and normal helicopter traffic must be managed as far as possible outside built-up areas. The process around the new emergency centre has been very messy directed by this government. The Justice and Emergency Department cut the population from the map to hide how close it was to people's homes. The project manager compared the sound of shooting with children's lattice, and the ministry has awarded a million contract without competition, as Robert Myhre, expert on public procurement, believes violates the law. SV made a fallout in Oppegård because the inhabitants do not accept that our children should grow up with the sound of shooting and shock grenades gilding through the schoolyard and over our kindergartens. The firing paths of the emergency centre must be built in.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4118	We're lucky in Norway. Our Creator has been out with us. The mountains are high, the waterfalls are powerful, and the oil wells are deep. We have harvested what Norwegian nature has offered us, and managed it well. But ‘winter is coming’, the need for conversion becomes clearer. The Caribbean is being bred by another deadly hurricane, the South floated last week, and it burns in California – again. We've always had, but it gets more extreme, and the consequences are bigger. It affects our lives in many ways, also financially. Like all other countries, we are contributing to the problem, but we are more fortunate and must therefore also contribute to the solutions. We have a favourable economic starting point, and we have good access to highly skilled labour, but we have to dry to be ambitious. Being passive is risky. Climate risk is as much about economic risk as about weather changes. There is an economic risk for Norwegian business and for Norway as a nation. We haven't been used to thinking about new things in the last few decades. We've been able to rest on our laurels – or oil fields, which we call our laurels up here on the mountain. Now we're facing tougher economic times. That is why we have to use the market, we have to put capital into action, and we have to ensure green competitiveness. Norway shall be a leading country in the field of renewable energy, the transport sector shall be free of emissions, we need to develop cost-effective technologies for the capture, use and storage of CO2, and Norway should take the lead in a green maritime sector. At the same time, Norwegian aviation has the potential to go from being one of the biggest climate problems to becoming one of the key climate solutions, without making everyday life more difficult for people. Because climate policy we create in this room is about solutions. Idealism is fine, and we can go a long way with it, but it's only when the capitalists and the idealists come together that things are beginning to happen. We need to take far more into account that business is the key to the development and implementation of climate solutions. We have a crucial responsibility to create a predictable climate policy framework so that business can develop good, profitable and climate-friendly solutions. It's about being able to combine climate policy with creating jobs. One of the fundamentals of conservatism is to change to preserve. To keep a society where we're still going to be able to live well, we have to change the way we do things. We can't rest on our laurels anymore, we have to face the green future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4127	There's a lot of good things in Norwegian school, and it's mainly thousands of teachers who do a big and important job every day, which is to be credited. The teacher is actually the key to the good school and to solving the challenges students face in school everyday life. It is therefore serious when the SSB announces that we will lack 3,600 teachers in 2035. This requires political action to counteract. An essential measure, in the view of the Christian People's Party, to ensure early schooling is to increase the teacher's density at all stages of the class — and in particular the lowest. When each teacher is responsible for fewer students, yes, it will be easier to provide individual pupils with customized training. This also reduces the need for special education. This we know works well. A good example is the Dovre municipality, which has managed to break the negative trend with the growing need for special education through increased bets, early efforts, increased teacher density and empowerment, along with several research-based teaching schemes. Here, the proportion of students in need of special education was halved in just one year and has actually been below 5 pst since then. That's about. half of the average in the rest of the country. In recent years, more professional recommendations have been made for increasing teacher density. The time thief survey, carried out by Fafo on behalf of the Federation of Education, showed that three out of four teachers thought they did not have time to carry out their duties properly. That is why the Federation of Education has called for a norm in primary school that the Christian People's Party has promoted today. The Christian People's Party is very pleased that, over the last few years, in the period behind us, we have prioritised increasing teaching density at the nursery and, together with the government and the Left Party, put in place some 1,700 new teaching positions of 1-4. steps. Now we believe that the time has come to create a standard that demands how many students each individual teacher can have, so that students can be guaranteed equal access to the school's most important resource, which is the teacher. The Christian People's Party therefore proposes a maximum limit for the average group size per teacher at school level: for 1–4. Class 15 pupils and for 5 to 10. class 20 pupils per teacher. In the south, everything is now at the ready to implement major and important transport measures that link cities and communities. This is the result of a large-scale effort made by the four non-socialist parties. The national community also has good conditions for the establishment of new data centres. Here we need access to fiber nationally and to the rest of the world that can provide a good capacity. It will therefore be a central task to put this fibre infrastructure in place by means of State resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4138	Norway is a good country to live in for most of us, and as national politicians, we are working to make it as good for all our citizens. The government has led us safely through turbulent times in the great period we have behind us, and the voters have given a new mandate to the bourgeois parties. Just before the summer holiday, we will deal with this municipal reform. I said in the debate that the community reform is a success, and I stand by it. When more than 150 municipalities, representing two thirds of the population of Norway, had a desire to merge, we see that the municipal reform is wanted locally. While the Workers' Party was slowing down and the Center Party was slowing down, the government delivered a municipal reform with the biggest change in the municipal structure of over 50 years. On Sørlanden, the voters in Søgne, Songdalen and Kristiansand – three municipalities that were adopted involuntarily by the Stortinget in June – answered by voting Right as the largest party in all three municipalities. And in East and West Agder, two counties now merged into one new region, the voters replied to do the same. The citizens will have a good and effective service offer in their municipalities. They want capacity, they want competence and access to good professional environments. It requires innovation and innovation. We are not implementing local or regional reform because we want to change Norway and what we are happy about our country, we are doing it because Norway has changed. We need a forward-looking structure at both local and regional level that can serve us as citizens not only in the next few years but also in the longer term. It requires renewal, and therefore the reform of the municipalities and regions must continue. As national politicians, we have a responsibility for the future of Norway. When the problems require it, we have a tradition of looking for broad settlements in the Storting. That responsibility also lies with us in this process of mass destruction. It's in the country's interest. This debate has shown that we are many who noticed that the Labour Party, in its self-examination after the election, asked questions as to whether they had been too constructive in opposition. In spite of differences of opinion, the right has always seen the Workers' Party as a responsible governing party, not as a protest party. In the Right, therefore, we will continue to invite both the Labour Party and the other parties in the Stortinget to settle and cooperate in the matters where the interests of the country should come first – and that is what the voters expect of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4153	Norway is a good country to live in, yes, we're even better off to the world's happiest country. It says something about Norway being a country with opportunities for everyone to live a good life. We have a high population, we have large natural resources, small differences and an open economy that facilitates efficient production and trade. But we also have challenges. The serious oil price fall we experienced in 2014, gave us a reminder of the vulnerability of having such a big and dominant industry. The need for conversion and more legs to stand on has our government's most important task in the previous growing period. The financial and monetary policy pursued by the government has been well adapted to the situation in the Norwegian economy. The social partners have acted responsibly, and the fall in the krone price has made the Norwegian export industry more competitive and Norway significantly cheaper as a tourist destination. There is strong growth in exports of seafood and in strong growth in travel. It's nice to experience on company visits, whether it's in my home country, Telemark, or visiting Hordaland, that there's optimism among business leaders. Many feedback is going to be about extensions and additions. Companies also report a high level of research and development work, highlighting the tax FUNN scheme as a good tool. Growth is on the way up and unemployment is on the way down. In my home country, the number of unemployed has not been lower in nine years, and the Finans Norway's expectation barometer shows that the Nordics in all parts of the country have been given back the threat that Norway is heading towards lighter economic times. The climate changes we experience in the world will give us more extreme weather, and neither will we in Norway escape major devastation and dramatic situations, such as just now under the flood in Agder. The fact that climate change is one of our major challenges is most of us about, and the Paris climate agreement in 2015 obliges us to put this on the agenda in all sectors. Around one third of the greenhouse gas is devoted to transport. The government's commitment to rail, collective development and road development and the spin-off of the charging system that stimulates the rapid phasing-in of environmentally friendly vehicles are policies that act on the road towards a low-carbon society. In Telemark we have a lot of industry, and we were proud that the Minister of Industry chose Her Islanda Industrial Park as the place to present the Industrial Message, the first since 1981. Yara is a world-leading company in the park producing mineral fertilisers. Today, fertilisers are transported by car to Conteinar Terminals in Brevik and Larvik. Yara, together with the Kongsberg Group, has developed the world's first unleaded and fully electric continuum ship, "Yara Birkeland". Enova bitreg with 133 million. kr i support for the project, which will replace 40000 annual truck journeys. This is an example of a project of collaboration between public and private businesses to develop new technologies and create new industries. We need more of that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4168	In 1988, I signed up for Nature and Youth. In the newspapers I read about a growing ozone hole, acid rain, forest death, and empty fish water. I signed in because I was worried about the future. On the running slip I got, it said, "If not you – who?" If not now – when? I thought the environmental problems could be solved, and I still think so. At present, ozone layer is on the road to improvement, acid rain is greatly reduced, forest death is no longer a major problem, and fish are back in the water. The fight for the environment has been beneficial. Today it is about combating dangerous climate change and about stopping a massive eradication of plants and animals, our common basis of life. Nature is not just to go for a walk. Nature gives us everything we need from food, clothing, medicine, house and home – free of charge. Nature takes care of us, but we haven't been as good at taking care of it. Therefore, SV has today presented 42 proposals on how Norway can cut its greenhouse gas emissions and reach the climate agreement that the Stortinget made in 2012. In the last four years, emissions have been more or less at rest on site. At the same time, the government has willingly disallowed permits to the oil industry without listening to one of the environmental warnings against oil drilling in vulnerable areas through the concession rounds. Never before has so little regard been given to the environment in oil policy. For too long, Norwegian environmental policy has been about what to do in the distant future, in 10, 15 or 20 years. We want an obligating plan that cuts emissions over the next four years, a plan that says no to the allocation of new fields where the oil industry is going to be able to drill for oil, which is going to be set on rail in front of new motorways and new airport extensions, which reduces car traffic in the big cities and instead facilitates us to take buses, trams, feet and bicycles, and that is putting on energy efficiency improvement and electrification of the boats that go along the coast. Together with the continued protection of vulnerable sea areas such as the Lofoten, the Vestral, Senja, the Moravian Blocks and Skagerrak, this is among the most important environmental issues over the next four years. SV will do its utmost to ensure that we are aware of our new responsibility, that we, as elected by the Norwegian people, spend the next four years together to cut greenhouse gas emissions and to take care of the amazing nature we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4183	The Right Party and the Advance Party have steered Norway through a time of falling oil prices and increasing unemployment. Now the arrows have turned. Freedom goes down, growth goes up, and more new jobs are created. That's good, but that doesn't mean that the work on securing the Norwegian economy more legs to stand on is done. We must continue to facilitate the creation of more jobs in the private sector, which in turn ensure the well-being of our descendants. The Labour Party and the Center Party spent a lot of time in the election campaign talking down Right-wing policy, and especially necessary reforms. The working party was correct for several of them – some of them started in their own reign – but they spoke as if they were opposed. They wanted to carry out reforms ‘in another way’, but it was difficult to understand what it meant. The center part sounded like they'd put most of it in reverse and go with their backs into the future. In my opinion, the policies of the Labour Party and the Centre Party will lead to the necessary changes to equip Norway for the future to stop completely. The outcome of such policies will continue to be centralisation and state over-management. Departure from districts will increase even more, and jobs, especially in the districts, will decrease. The right will facilitate the growth of districts. That is why we are focusing on actions that contribute to this. We focus on transport, education and growth-promoting tax relief. We want 'yes-communities' and communities with creative power. And we see that the policy works, it works well in the districts. Fortunately, the voters saw this and then voted. The right made a good choice in Agder and became the largest party in both East and West Agder. In West Agder, the Right was located in 11 out of 15 municipalities, and several of these are district municipalities. Even in the so-called coercive municipalities, the Right came forward. My analysis of this is that the majority of voters understand that society needs to change over time and needs. In meeting climate change, exclusion, poverty and several older people, the Right’s aim is to take care of Norway as the world’s best country to live in. Then we need a policy that develops new and better solutions to society's challenges. We have shown both the will and the ability to carry out the necessary reforms, and we will continue to do so. When the task requires it, we will seek a broad settlement in Stortinget. Cooperation across parties and ideological dividing lines is a strength of Norwegian democracy and a value it is well worth taking care of. Therefore, there is cause for concern when Jonas Gahr Støre indicates that the Workers' Party will become less constructive and willing to compromise during this period. My experience is that they were in the last period as well, as it might seem that Helga Pedersen's call to swear as much as possible to the government was the main strategy of the party. I hope the Workers' Party finds its tradition, where they put the country's interests ahead of party interests in important matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4200	Most of us are doing very well in Norway. Throughout generations, we have built up a welfare society that we can be proud of, and that we together will take care of. In this context, we need to create more jobs, get more knowledge into school, build an even better health care system and strengthen preparedness. These are areas that the Right will also give priority to the next four years – although the whole of the policy always has to weigh more heavily. This is why several important reforms have been launched in the last four years. In addition, several good plans that lay the basis for the future have been adopted here in Stortinget. What these have in common is that careful priorities are just being used to create the sustainable solutions of the future. When the task requires it, we've searched and will seek broad reconciliation with all the games here in the Stortinget. This helps to ensure the necessary continuity and legitimacy, regardless of government and whatever parliamentary basis. Therefore, there is cause for concern when the leader of the Workers' Party suggests that they may be less constructive and willing to compromise – and perhaps more conflict-seeking. In the Common Era, the government clearly stated that the operational capability of the defence should be strengthened in line with the long-term plan. The long-term plan was adopted by a large majority at Stortinget in November 2016. Here, the Workers' Party and the government parties made a good compromise for the defence. But the last weeks of the campaign showed us a working party that suddenly was not as clear. Both in the cases of helicopters at Bardufoss, the air station on Andøya and the emergency centre on Taraldrud, the Workers' Party showed itself on the opposite side from a slightly obvious point of view. This is the last defense that needs now. For the Right, the defense of the country is the state's most important task. That is why we have started repatriation of the country's defence capabilities. With new fighter planes, submarines and surveillance aircraft, we are now moving towards reaching NATO 2 percent. If we are to be able to build a defence that can withstand tomorrow's modern threats, we need political predictability. This is precisely the basis of the long-term plan. But then we can't move back to when you were most concerned with bases and offices. What Norway needs is defensiveness and fighting power. It requires policy-makers who make their decisions and by doing so ensure the necessary continuity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4215	Some representatives here in the Chamber will probably recognize me as something quite different than a politician. Until now, I have been a film producer, a natural film photographer and a natural series producer for the NRK, BBC and others around the world, and I've been in almost a lifetime – I guess that's what I'm allowed to say. I've preferably been in camouflage clothes and not as much in a party dress as here. In this job I have had the opportunity to travel a lot, both in the world and in Norway, in many crinkle hooks of the country, to deter nature from some of its secrets. On these trips I have observed frightening developments that have made me worried, and this is a significant motivation for me to stand here as a magnification representative today – for a red environmental party. The most serious development I have seen on Svalbard. The ice has withdrawn so incredibly much just during the time I have been there: 30 years. In some decades I have seen how the polar bear's hierarchies have been pushed further and further north. In the past, Hopen was one of the most important hieroglyphs, where indoors went ashore to dig here and feed kids. I've filmed it. Now it's history. I have said on some occasions that our white panda may have disappeared as a solid, breeding species on Svalbard in 20 years – think about it! I hope I'm not getting right. But it's in the Arctic climate change being noticed as fast as possible. Double the rate of temperature rise here as elsewhere in the world. It's serious. So what does the world do with this? What does Norway do? And what does the sitting government do? They sign the Paris Agreement, but they are still pushing ahead with the objectives of climate change. The 2020 climate agreement targets were declared unofficial. Instead, a new target was set for 10 years later, 2030, in the EU pact. There's something strange about it – how much easier it is to set tougher requirements for cutting CO 2, only it's further ahead of time and one doesn't have to do so much at home. Climate Action Tracker has created a new ranking system for different countries' climate action that better reflects the objectives of the Paris Agreement. In this new system, Norway’s climate action is characterised as ‘inefficient’, insufficient, to achieve the objective of avoiding heating of more than 1.5 to 2 degrees. In the throne, the government is not alerting any quick or new measures. This is the background to the SV's proposal for a representative on climate change. There is a plan to start concrete cut now, with around 40 proposals for emission reductions. In addition to these, several proposals from the SV will come through the Transport Committee, where we are now represented by the undersigned and through the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4233	In our prisons, we meet people who have fallen completely out of our society. These are people with different starting points in their lives, but who have in common that they should be returned to society through atonement. There are not many venues where the starting point for integration is just this: exclusion. This gives criminal care a great responsibility to help each individual within the walls have a realistic opportunity to return to society and everyday life, to return and become good neighbors for you and me, to walk in the streets as ordinary people, as Thorbjørn Egner wrote that the robbers of Kardemmme City said. The government has put itself on a line where we are faced with a situation where rehabilitation and return to society are no longer a leading star for the work in prisons. Criminal protection is at risk of becoming a storage option if this line is continued. The Labour Party believes that if we are to achieve the goal of rehabilitation and return to society, it is necessary to legislate for settlement on Norwegian soil for Norwegian citizens. Neither the challenges of society nor of individuality are solved by reconciliation abroad, and one does not get rid of their problems with intoxication only by receiving Subutex when the cella is locked and the memories of another life are the only thing that keeps you company, when the skyscraper has become so small that the sun shines so far in a few hours a day, and when the sensory programme and the ruse program are cut because the framework of the prison has become too narrow. The Labour Party will ensure that the framework around prison and criminal services is liberal enough to ensure that a good offer can be made, so that compensation actually reduces the chance of relapses into new crime. Education and training are prerequisites for success in life after prison. Knowledge and competence make it possible to participate in normal everyday life and to provide for themselves and their loved ones. Priority needs to be given to the transition from prison to community, and protection must be strengthened in order to minimise the threat of a return to a life of violence, violence and debt. With the right tools, criminal services can achieve their goal of bringing people back to society as good neighbours, fathers, daughters and participants in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4246	The center party made a good choice in the harvest. In my county, the Central Party was the largest in 20 municipalities and the second largest in 13. Right, they like to make it look like they won the election in Northernland. They didn't. The choice was a clear indication of the future people in both the city and the north want. We want good services near people. We want local government and local democracy with real power. We need safe jobs and good opportunities to create new jobs. We need a defense for the whole country. We must now introduce equality for the law by introducing local administration of the state's land, state general foundations, in the Nordic countries and Troms. Many municipalities are willing to introduce the mountain law, and local decisions are taken. Both the mountain law and, to the extent, the Hålogaland public opinion will provide much greater security against the sale of valuable areas that are important for hunting and fishing for both the villagers and the general public. A government that wants to remove the concession law and sell attractive areas far beyond a limited roundabout sale could risk selling out our common hunting and fishing opportunities to new, perhaps foreign salmon orders. The centre party will not sell Norway. We believe there must be greater room in the local government. The frameworks are too tight today, and bureaucracy seems to have greater power than democracy, for example in robbery management. The sister of the local government is entitled to self-determination. And now they're both threatened. We have a government that says they want to reform Norway. They are running on with community reform, regional reform, police reform, but what they are really doing is not reforming, but reproducing bureaucracy. The power is transferred from us to officials. They call it renewing -- I call it dragging us backwards back to the state of office. When the change takes place under compulsion, they take away our right of self-determination and independence from the people who have created Norway. The next reform of this society must be a reform of trust. Trust creates security and good solutions. In any case, the centre party will continue to be the counter-power of the uncritical centralisation announced by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4262	It is with respect that I enter the pulpit in Stortinget for the first time. It is with pleasure that I can tell the 17,234 who voted for me and the Progress Party in West Agder that they have a representative, a party and a government working for them. It's a good thing that there are ordinary people being elected to this National Assembly, because when I talk to my 17,234 voters, they're busy with ordinary things. They are concerned that we should have three well-functioning hospitals in Agder. They are concerned that Flekkefjord Hospital will consist of the functions it currently has and that it will be further developed with competent staff, as set out in the National Health and Hospital Plan. My constituents are concerned that there will be a four-field motorway between Kristiansand and Stavanger, a road that has been neglected by all governments before the Progress Party came into government. And then I come from a part of the country that has a relatively high unemployment rate, there are many who work or have worked in oil and gas, in the supplier industry or in other related industries, such as. Shipyards. It's a skinny comfort to my constituents, who like to be a unemployed oil worker with family to take care of, that they're on the green shift. That's why I'm glad we have a government playing with the country's most important industry. As a newly elected member of the Energy and Environment Committee and the Climate Policy spokesman of the Progress Party – if there is such a position – I would like to end up with a little bit about the environment and climate, because we are going to be leading the climate challenges seriously, but we have to do what is smart, and cut where it has the greatest effect. Therefore, we need Norwegian oil and gas to succeed in the climate challenge. Although I am the Progress Party’s new ‘climate cycle’, I think it’s much more radical to hit Norway’s main industry – which had led to higher CO 2 emissions globally – than to play with it and find a golden medium-way where we’re betting on both the most important industry and on new technology to meet tomorrow’s challenge. We meet the climate challenges with just that – new technology. Developments in technology and innovation have not been made through prohibitions and injunctions. I do not use a mobile phone because the Stortinget has decided to shut down the landline or prohibit it. We do not use e-mails because the Storting has decided to drop post office. Similarly, the green shift does not come – it does not depend on us banning the oil, rather on the contrary. Innovation and innovation do not come through prohibitions, injunctions, whips, taxes and taxes. They come through good ideas, a well-educated and mobile population and a free market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4282	First of all, I want to use the opportunity to thank the voters for the trust they have given us. For us as the smallest party in a minority government, this has been a historic choice. The voters are satisfied with what we have delivered over the period, we have managed the country safely, and we will continue to do so. In the last magnification period, we were met by what could be described as one of the greatest crises the government has experienced in recent times. The oil price fell from over $100 the barrel to less than $30 the barrel. We handled that. The arrows are now pointing straight ahead, and we've come across the biggest knee. The oil price drop has also given a clear signal that Norway needs more arrows to stand on in the future. It is therefore gratifying to see very positive developments in the fisheries and aquaculture industry. Norway is today the world’s second largest exporter of seafood. The export value of Norwegian seafood in 2016 ended at a total of 91,64 billion tonnes. kr. So this is 17 billion. kr more than in 2015. We're going to build on that through nutrient-oriented knowledge and infrastructure. A significant proportion of Norwegian export value is generated from the Nordic fisheries and seafood industry. About 75 pst. of all cod landed in Norway, landed in North Norway. With increased growth and export value, it is also more important to look at foreign and domestic policies in a context. We must ensure that the Arctic remains a peaceful and stable region. To ensure this, international cooperation in the north and the enforcement of the law of the sea are central. Increased activity and presence, especially in the north, have had and will continue to have a high priority. This is a prerequisite for the ability to continuously perform tasks such as monitoring and intelligence, sovereignty and the exercise of authority. This is particularly the case in a more demanding safety policy situation. The government has so far succeeded in continuing good cooperation with Russia in the north despite more difficult times. We also have to do that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4293	What's important to you and your business, I asked the young business owner at Haaland Elevator Rental at the Geilo about. He had just expanded the staff. Building the road and the track, he said – lightly on the tax burden and put on entrepreneurs. Wooden master Sætheren, who operates with the industrialization of wood elements to the wall and floor at Hensmoen on Ringerijke, answered the same question: Build the Ringeriksbahnen and reduce the wealth tax, he said. We're going to build the Ringerix track, after years of summer meal, and we've reduced the property tax. The developer of the Jondalen outside Kongsberg jubled in the autumn of 2013 when the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation authorised the construction of some dwellings. The builder had appealed County's no to the department, and the process had taken years and cost time and money. We had eight years with district officials who overrun the municipalities. Now the state listens to the municipalities in eight out of ten objections, against four out of ten under the previous government. This is district policy. Workplaces mean a lot in the community – yes, it's the nerve itself. We have a government that makes it right to create jobs in the districts, because the answer District Norway gives is more way and way, a tax policy that doesn't suffocate businesses, and a lifting of pointless objections. Yeah, it's gonna work out in the districts. The availability is low, agriculture is good, fisheries are good, and not least travel. I am proud of the travel life in both Hallingdal and Numedal – I come from Buskerud. The Norwegian people did not pray for the red-green horror propaganda about district hostility and centralisation. They renewed their confidence in the government. Right wants to maintain the Norwegian tradition with strong welfare municipalities and a real local autonomy. This also presupposes changes in the municipal structure in the future. Dear Big: This won't pass. We want living communities and living districts throughout the country. We don't want relocation, we want businesses and entrepreneurs who actually dare to bet. The stronger a municipality is, the less the state must rule. I would therefore challenge the Labour Party to contribute to the necessary reform work in the future and not be weak, unclear and winged. Reform means – as Gahr Støre said in French – doing things better.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4310	After four years with the Right in the Ministry of Knowledge, Norwegian school is the right way. The students learn more, they are more present in the classroom, and fewer fall from. The absence limit has led to a sharp decline in absenteeism, and it is most gratifying that absenteeism has fallen most in professional subjects, where absenteeism has been greatest, and where it is traditionally the majority of those who drop out. Although it is too early to say something certain about whether the absence limit will affect the non-response in the longer term, the preliminary figures are positive. But in any case, we have to keep working in order for more people both to choose a professional and to complete. Half of upper secondary school students go on a professional basis, but there are too many who do not complete. Some drop out, and too many people don't get a lesson and don't get completed for that reason. There is a desperate situation for the students concerned, but there is also no need for a desired situation for society, which needs skilled workers in both the public and private sectors. That is why I am very pleased with what both the government and the cooperation parties had done in the previous period, and with the efforts on the professional level that are to be continued in this period. We need to ensure that the labour market acquires the skills it needs, and we need to ensure that young people complete the education they want. During the previous period, a number of measures were taken to ensure more pupils a place for learning. We increased the grant by NOK 21 000 per contract, among others. as a result of the budgetary agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party. We reinforced the demand for the use of apprentices to win tenders. We involved the companies in working together to get more apprenticeships. We have also made a commitment to vocational teachers – just to mention something. Vocational training is now to be continued. On the advice of the labour market, we are now receiving vocational training tailored to the needs of the labour market. We're going to provide a more motivating education by getting students to specialise in the past. We want more practically oriented education earlier in the education cycle, and we want to make the theory more relevant. We will also recruit more professionals, including: through recruitment grants. We need to increase the demand for apprentices in the state's businesses, and we want to increase the grant further. The initiative is offensive, and it is ambitious, but it is also realistic and absolutely necessary. Vocational training is as important as university education, and master's letters are as good as a master's degree. Norway needs skilled workers, and we will ensure that Norway gets the skilled workers we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4325	I registered through the election campaign that most parties want a strict and sustainable immigration policy. At least they said that, but a lot of people didn't mean it. It is a good Norwegian tradition to try to reach maximum agreement on the major and difficult issues. I hope that the responsible parties at Stortinget will work together to create an immigration and integration policy that best suits Norway's interests and the people's security, while helping those who need it the most. It may be difficult to make choices that affect the fate of other people. This can seem brutal when politicians, for example, are involved. restricts the use of permanent residence permits to persons without a need for protection. But it is absolutely necessary to make such choices. We can't allow people without protection needs to take up the space of others just because the media is crying out loud about exactly these. We can't signal that in Norway you're going to be left without a reason, just being able to get here. I want the Storting to stand together to address some major challenges we have on the integration side. For too many years we have seen how integration in Norway is going. It's time we started following developments in a more concrete way. Therefore, the Progress Party will introduce an integration barometer that follows the evolution of a number of measurement indicators over time. There may be labour participation, criminal statistics, social support, language skills and the use of municipal support schemes. The drama municipalities have decided to introduce such an integration barometer locally, and it's time we get the same thing nationally. Such an integration barometer can help us figure out what works, and if we accept more immigrants than we can integrate. Social control is a common problem in a number of environments. I personally find it heartwarming that children in some environments live under inhuman conditions, where religious coercion and social control characterize everyday life. In such cases, it does not help with co-op and dialogue. For me, the children's right to a free and independent life is so important that I am willing to go far to get rid of such a culture. The newspaper has recently written about the situation, and the police are shouting warnings. The police want the politicians to act. We must enable society to detect when children suffer from religious and social control. We must protect the victims, and we must punish those responsible. This will require us to make some tough choices, and I hope the Storting will gather around this for the sake of the children. Olemic Thommess had here resumed the president's office.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4343	Yesterday, the delegations from Telemark and Westfold met to negotiate the merger of the two counties, a merger based on coercion, where neither Telemark nor Westfold wanted this strange, unbalanced and inconvenient construction. The population of these states does not want this aggregation either. Before the election, there were polls that said that as many as seven out of ten telemarks were against being joined together with Vestfold. I stand here today as a fresh representative from Telemark precisely because this matter is so important to so many in my home state that my party almost quadrupled the number of votes in the autumn's elections. The centre party became the largest or second largest party in 13 of 18 municipalities. This happened because both the centre party and the voters in Telemark know that the coercion with the small geographical area, but the people of Westfold will lead to even more movement of power, jobs, resources, services and offers from Telemark to Westfold than the government has already affected Telemark. I must say that as a telemarking, I am strongly provoked by today's debate, by hearing representatives from the Right and the Advance Party who deny that their government is centralizing. During the previous ageing period, two hospitals in Telemark were closed. The county office has certainly to be moved to Westfold, the police chief and her staff, money, many people, have moved to Westfold, the 110-central has moved to Westfold, the state attorney's office has to be moved to Westfold, the main seat of the University of South East Norway is located in Westfold. And what has gone the other way? Minimum. During yesterday's negotiations between the counties, it was found that Westfold was not ready to give up the county capital either, even though they have received the State. The Westfold delegation, on the other hand, was clear that they would have more than Telemark in common, which will determine most of the merger process, naturally, because they are the most. So the tone is set, and the balance of power is set. I'm going to say that getting, if anyone, the centralization away from Telemark will stop the coercion with Westfold. Nor do part of the state and local politicians in Telemark from the government parties and the cooperation parties believe so. Both they and very, very many others see that this coercion will weaken in particular Upper Telemark with their great distances and completely different challenges and opportunities than what you have experience and focus on in Westfold. That's why people are against it. So where is the size of this case? We have a new majority now. Where is not least the Christian People's Party's big group in this matter – a party one would believe was strong for districts like Upper Telemark, and a party which one would believe was against such a type of regional merger? I am pleased that we are going to consider the proposal put forward today by the Centre on the convergence of regions, because I trust that the Christian People's Party is making sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4352	In Norway, the workline is the one that applies. If you live in Norway, you will learn Norwegian. You're going to take education, and you're going out to work. In our culture, there's nothing called women going home. If you live in Norway, you need to focus on gender equality and the importance of the women's struggle. In Norway, the Norwegian model applies. It is about participation in the labour market for both women and men. That's how we build the welfare community together. My family fled to Norway 30 years ago. I wasn't born in Norway. The only memory I have from childhood is sirens and the night bombing of Tehran. But today Norway is my country, the country that stood up for me and my family when all hope was gone. My parents and especially my mother have great honor for me standing on this pulpit today. Her motto was clear: we're going to stand up for the country that stood up for us. We're gonna learn Norwegian. We're going to take education. We're going out to work. I come from a city I'm incredibly proud of, a city I'm incredibly happy in, but also a city with many challenges. In the Drammen figures from 2015 show that almost 60 pst. by migrant women out of work. It's unacceptable. The drama is the big city with the highest proportion of children in poor families. In many immigrant families, only one adult is employed. At the same time, the Drammen lies in the top level when it comes to paying out cash support, and we know that both in the Drammen and in the capital are immigrant women overrepresented. What does the government and state council Horne and Listhaug do with that? Listen to this: The government will distribute $7500 per month of community money, of taxpayers' money, to immigrant women not to take part in the work and not to send their kids to kindergarten so that they can learn Norwegian at school. At the same time, families with young children who are at work and who contribute to the community must have more expensive kindergartens, and in some municipalities they must wait in line for kindergarten places. This is what the government calls good integration policy. I believe it is anti-integrative policy. With the Right and Advance Party, the message is that the workline is not important. Cash support is too many a poverty trap. It is time for us to have a strict and fair integration policy. If you live in Norway, you should be able to Norwegian. You have to take education. You have to go to work. Norwegian training, children’s playgrounds and work placement measures shall be provided. The cash support has to go, and we can start with the big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4367	The Center Party believes in all of Norway. We fight for services and decisions near where people live. At the big elections this year, we almost doubled our population, while the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party all went back. People are tired of government's centralization policy and want a new policy that takes their everyday lives seriously. A big choice gives the opportunity to listen to the people and change course. On 8 June this year, a small majority of Stortinget decided to merge 31 municipalities in Norway under compulsion. Among them was my own municipality of residence, Sorum, which was to be merged with Skedsmo and Fet. Both Fet and Skedsmo already have referendums that say no. Now people in South Africa have also got to say their opinion. More than 71 pst. voted in the referendum, almost as high an turnout as in the Grand elections. The result was an overwhelming no. Almost 60 pst. voted against. The majority of the local government will listen to the people of Sørum. It should also be done by the majority in this Chamber by voting in favour of the proposal for a representative that we in the Central Party have promoted earlier today. To the NRK on 13 September last year, Minister of Justice Anders Anundsen said: ‘What is symptomatic at the lumbar spine offices is that they are largely open three days a week [[...]] More places in the country, including: in Rome, lay down a now concrete plan to dismantle the well-functioning janitor's office. Last year, 1 200 people went on torch trains to take care of the Länsmannskontoret, an office that provides good services, which has great confidence in the local population, and which until today has been open for five days a week. Now a plan is made for the office to be open for a few hours a week, and the municipality is completely set on the sideline of the process. Similarly, one also sees in Lørenskog. So here the government is planning a kind of loner's office that a previous one argued to remove. Is it because the government really believes that the Länsmann offices are not that important? Or to quote the current member of the Judicial Committee, Jan Arild Ellingsen, of the Party of Advances, from the reading in the Glamdalen 12 September last year: ‘For us in the Progress Party, a lenght office is no more than an address, with installed water, electricity and sewage system.’ Is this the Party of Advancement and the government’s view? The Central Party takes the fight for the L.A. Offices in line with the local people's will. We will continue to fight for the reinforcement of the local police force. We will fight for the strengthening of schools and care and other important services in the municipalities. We will fight for a policy that takes people's everyday lives seriously. We will fight for services and decisions near people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4390	One of the best things about our society is that there are small differences between people, high trust and strong communities. Recognized researchers have shown that societies with small differences in power and wealth are societies with fewer social problems, higher economic growth and a stronger social glue. That is why it is so frightening to see that the economic differences increase significantly, because the wealthiest tenth of the population of Norway now owns more than half of all wealth in the country, while only more and more poor children are growing. The government has arranged tax fixings for the economic elite of 21 billion. kr in tax cuts, and they have sent the bill for the party to ordinary people through unsocial cuts. We can mention the government's cut in the unemployed's holiday money, in the children's allowance for disabled parents and in the care allowance. The increasing differences and the unsocial cuts hit my own county, Eastfold, hard, with a large proportion of unskilled, low educational levels, but perhaps worst of all — a very high child poverty. Yes, 7,700 children grow up in poor families in Eastfold. In proportion, this is the second worst in the whole country. These are 7,700 kids who may not be able to go on baby birthdays because their parents can't afford to send a gift that can't be on the SFO or that can't afford to be on the football team. Because that's what child poverty is all about: the feeling you're left with when you can't participate in the same line with the others, the feeling of loneliness. I saw a lot of it in my own growth in Sarpsborg, and we know how dangerous it is for the individual with that lump in his stomach, but also for the whole community. But fortunately, we know that this is about unfair distribution in an economic system that gives more and more to those who have the most from before, a man-made system that can also be changed by humans. Because we can distribute power and wealth from the economic elite to ordinary people, for example. by introducing taxes on stock exchange speculation — in order to spend money on increasing child welfare. It will be the most effective short-term action to combat child poverty, because child welfare has remained still since 1996, which means that it has decreased in value every year. That is why, among other things, I am promoting a proposal for a representative to strongly increase universal child protection back to the 1996 level, with targeted additions for those who have the least. Instead of giving away the values of community to them with the most from before, we will spend the great money on fair distribution and social cohesion, because a society where it is short from the door to the welder's son and the door to the lawyer's daughter is a warm society for which it is worth fighting. Our vision for that society does not stop with increased child-responsiveness. Our vision is a society in which we create the good in common and distribute them democratically, a society in which we move both power and wealth from the elite to the common people. It's a socialist society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4403	The right view is to create a society with opportunities for everyone. This is to be achieved by focusing on knowledge in school, an inclusive working life, redistributive tax policies and targeted schemes aimed at those who fall outside school or working life. For example, outdoors may be: This is due to drug addiction and health problems, poor schooling, lack of integration and lack of a job to go to. We know that work is very important to most people. It provides employee income and opportunities for owning a dwelling, having a car, being able to travel and have opportunities for life. In other words, it is good mental health to have a job to go to. One of the biggest social divisions in Norway is between those who are struggling with drugs and mental problems — and us. The first group lives on average for approx. 20 years shorter than the rest of the population. The main concern of the right is that many fall outside the welfare community. This is why we want to focus on actions that help to get more people into work or in education. Through our policies, we raise the most vulnerable by focusing on better drug treatment, mental health protection and closer monitoring of Nav. Ashim in Eastfold is a good example of this. The Nav office has used individual job support to ensure that people with disabilities have access to and maintain paid work in the open labour market. The basic idea of this project is to help people obtain normal work on wages and salaries and to provide them with the support needed to succeed. In the focus on work and mental health, there has been a shift from sheltered interventions to more focus on ordinary work – this is because users with mental health problems can and will work, and through such projects have the opportunity to do so. The result of the method of getting people with mental problems into work is so good in Askim that the government will spend 100 million dollars. kr, previously budgeted as a Nav project, to become a permanent item in the budget for next year. This ensures that the scheme is sustainable, and Nav will have the opportunity to increase its efforts. We Northmen are privileged. We live in a country with small social differences, have a good school, a health care system for everyone and low unemployment. Over generations, we've built a society we can be proud of, and it's our job to carry on. Although Norway is very good, there are also major unsolved tasks and challenges ahead of us. Too many, especially young people, are still out of work. In meeting these challenges, the Right will take care of Norway as the world’s best country to live in. It's about creating more jobs and qualifying people for these jobs, because it's work that pays for our well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4418	There's a lot of discussion about the teacher and the school and the students who are struggling. My soul could have been one of those who had dropped out of school, because I have difficulty reading and writing, but I was one of those who met a dream teacher, who had time for me, and who saw that I had abilities, sail if I wrote so the book was more red than blue. Many have talked about the dream teacher. It's the teacher who has both the time and the ability to see the whole kid, see the kids who are trying to make themselves as small and invisible as they can, because they may even have some bad secrets that no one knows about yet, but that can prevent them from getting a good life afterwards. In 2013 Erna Solberg honoured the dream teacher Edvin Svela at the national meeting, on which he immediately went out and formed a common front with SV against Right School Policy – which he thought was completely contrary to what was a good school – namely, more focus on tests, reporting, and the Right and Government's clear no to more teachers, who are very important for all kids to be seen. Now in the autumn, the jam took place again. Now it was Jan Dubowski who stood out as the dream teacher who had mountained many really sluggish kids. Yes, what happened now? Well, he was actually one of the teachers that this government has separated. He's not good enough, despite the fact that through his professional career he's taught kids both to read and write and mathematics – sail if he doesn't have enough weights in it, he's done it. In fact, he's managed to bring these kids through, so they have faith in their seas – they're doing well in society. They had bad odds, but they hit the dream teacher. There are no qualified teachers in Norwegian school, that's right. Then we cannot separate those who are qualified. There are no qualified teachers in Norwegian school. Then we can't set character requirements to get into teacher training, which means that if you have 5.2 on average, but 3 on math, you don't get in. You can have 6 in English, but you're not allowed to become an English teacher. But interns, you can be employed at school. So you're not qualified to enter the teacher's education, but you're employed at school as an unskilled temporary teacher, and that number is now increasing. That's why I'm very happy now when I see in the paper that it seems to be a majority in the Storting to reject this separation of teachers that the government has stood for, and for the proposal that SV has put on the table today. That's good for the kids, because they need these dream teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4430	Now it's 162. Storing opened. It has been a special experience to hear all the proposals put forward by the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, which have as their primary purpose the reversal of Norway. In the period we have behind us, we have implemented a number of reforms. They are not flawless, but in sum I believe that they contribute to a better and more forward-looking Norway. I understand that it is popular to try to create stories about an idyllic Norway in the 1970s. We have to know our story. It's knowledge to be able to create better solutions that will equip us for the challenges of the future, because it's about providing the best possible service to our citizens. One of the important things in the period we have ahead of us is to secure and further develop Norwegian business, so that we can maintain a good welfare society even in the years to come. Growth and development must be carried out in a closer interaction and not least the need for green shifts. We're already doing a good job of projects. For example, in the last period we were able to implement the biofuel plant in Forest in my own home state, Nord-Trøndelag. That facility is the result of good and solid cooperation among the bourgeois parties. In addition to a solid contribution to better climate accounting, the investment also offers good opportunities to exploit forest resources throughout the country. As an industrial effort, this should be seen in conjunction with the huge resources managed by Norway in fisheries and aquaculture. This is one of our most important growth industries, which makes us even better equipped to use the biomass in all of these industries. Fish we've lived on for millennia, and we're going to live on it. We need to facilitate the efficient and sustainable use of our resources, while safeguarding the interests of both the nation and the region in a good way. Industrial investment is not possible without research and development. Norway must take responsibility for the management of the sectors in which it takes precedence — health, ICT, fish, forestry and agriculture or culture. We have to make sure that we have a course of education that takes care to develop all the talents – from those in kindergartens to those who take the doctorate. Strong agriculture is a prerequisite for Norway to look the way it does. That's what people live all over Norway. That's what I want it to still do. We need to design policies so that all parts of agriculture can evolve. The left has had a strong hand in agricultural policy in the previous period. It has given rise to income and production growth and agricultural optimism. I'm going to help keep that trend going. Future agriculture must consist of three pillars — firstly, an agriculture that serves the landscape and uses the biomass resources, usually done as a secondary industry. Secondly, we need to develop a differentiated and diverse family farming. The third pillar must be that we allow commercialisation in agriculture towards a ready-to-pay international market. The importance of agriculture as a landscaper also plays a major role in travel. I'm optimistic on behalf of the future in Norway, and some of us need to have faith that it's in the future that we create things.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4443	In the Common Era, a point was made that wise decision-making has contributed to the development of society and that the government is going to pay great attention to the fact that the decisions in this room will benefit future generations. That is why I would encourage the Storting to reconsider a decision that was made in ours, which is quite little wise, and which is going to be a week for the generations to come. It's about the Viken. First, I would like to stress that I agree with what the Stortinget laid as the foundation for the reform: that the regions should form functional units, so that coherent housing and labour markets should not be shared. Nevertheless, it is precisely such an undesirable division that results when a common border is struck around Akershus, Østfold and Buskerud – with Oslo on the outside. Oslo will not enter any region. But then establishing the Week as a Plan B is dysfunctional, because it goes beyond the purpose of regional reform, i.e. the goal of more holistic social planning, where the regions coordinate development in the fields of transport, climate and environment, competences, business, culture, and more. Almost everything Akershus County is involved in these areas, today has consequences for Oslo – and vice versa. In practice, we are already a region. In spite of that, the Storting has agreed to create the Viking hybrid, a region that is going to be large, but not strong, that does not solve any real needs, but that shifts the challenges to the nearby metropolitan region out of focus. Paradoxically, it was precisely such problems that the regional reform should address: that the county councils are weak and not able to coordinate common challenges. Then there is one other thing: both county decisions, hearings and polls show that the Vikings are also perceived locally as a very bad plan. Akershus does not need a very good political and administrative structure that does not solve problems, but creates new ones. Sometimes the next best is not good enough. The size must take responsibility for controlling correctly and not wasting resources on a breakdown that is not going to work. I therefore ask the House to support the proposal for a representative who will cancel the Week, when this is discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4458	It is a great honour for me to take this pulpit, on behalf of a state that contributes heavily to our common well-being. With energy, fisheries and aquaculture, oil and gas, travel and maritime industries, I stand proudly as a representative of the Moors and the Romsdal and all the fires and peoples on it. Through the election campaign, I said that the Right Policy is best for More and Romesdal, and it seems that the voters agree. I'm going to be happy and humble when the Right is the largest party in the row for the second big shots. I interpret this as an expression that the voters like the policy that the government has provided so far, and that you have faith in the solutions of the Right in the four years that come. In the languages of the throne King Harald said: ‘We need to carry out the necessary reforms, even when it is demanding in the short term.’ – Even when it is demanding in the short term. The right has stuck to the reforms we have started, and we want to implement them. My impression is that some parties are making right and necessary reforms for the country into a party political and unpredictable game. This assembly takes up its work on major issues affecting the lives of individuals and the future of the entire municipality. In my opinion, the fact that you angle and reverse on big questions for just these is very unfortunate. It upsets me to see other parties live by short-term party political gain over long-term accountability on behalf of the nation. Norway is changing and the structure of public supply needs to be followed. I think that's a sentence that everyone can agree with. But it was only when we took up the government offices that this was actually done something about. The country needed a lot of people to come to make changes in how we built our roads, organized good services from our municipalities, and simplified the legislation to give more homes to our residents. Therefore, the government and the Right should continue with the job that has been started. Community reform continues unrelentingly. Efficiencies and red tape continue. We're going to build roads in new and cheaper ways, and we're going to expand the package sequences so that the weakest in society get a good health offer when they need it – to mention something. It is a huge responsibility to do the right and necessary steps to leave an equally good welfare society to the generation of which I am a part. The throne announced the title «A sustainable welfare society» for the government’s work in the coming years. It'll be a very important work. The large amount of money must be spent on what provides a basis for the nation to maintain its high level of well-being. Then you have to invest in research, infrastructure and tax relief, and avoid getting in the way of those who want to do something.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-10.ana.ud556e4489	It was then 22 o'clock, and Stortinget took a break in the negotiations. The first speaker in tomorrow's meeting is Prime Minister Erna Solberg.
