ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-07.ana.ud138e29	The representatives Fredric Holen Bjørdal and Trond Giske, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For the West-Agder province: Ånen Werdal For Akershus Province: Kjartan Berland and Are Health For Busherud County: Lavrans Kierulf For Oslo: Ann Kathrine Skreushammer For the Rogaland County: Sissel Knutsen Hegdal For Sogn and Fjordane County: Jenny Følling For the counties of Troms: Sigmund Steinnes For the South-Trundellag County: Ferhat Güven For Eastfold County: Håvard Jensen
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-07.ana.ud138e87	The representative, Mr Ketil Kjeseth, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-07.ana.ud138e92	On behalf of the representatives of Iselin Nybø, Abid Q. Raja, André N. Skkelstad and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the reorganization of Norwegian blood banks, a ‘Norway blood bank’, and the possibility of using bank ID in the blood bank for donors.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-07.ana.ud138e97	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-07.ana.ud138e117	Autism, ASD, is a profound developmental disorder. It would mean a whole and lifelong follow-up, but is that so? I'm afraid not. The reality of children, adolescents and adults with autism is all too often characterised by absence, poor and fragmented follow-up. The struggle for a worthwhile life for children, young people and adults with autism should be a matter of course in our welfare society. It's in our system and our political spinal cord to take extra good care of the most vulnerable. My claim is that in this field we are not in the vicinity of being able to call ourselves a welfare society. I hope that with this interpellation debate we can start a work that ensures children, young people and adults with autism a worthy life throughout their lives, regardless of their place of residence. Unfortunately, this is not the case today. Which municipality or part of town you live in, and/or which hospital you belong to, is of great importance for those who have autism to have a worthy life. This is about lack of priority, lack of competence, lack of interaction and, in some places, bad attitudes. I'm not hiding that I myself have experience with this. I'm the father of a six-year-old boy with autism. Fortunately, we have largely been lucky with the follow-up, both from the specialist health service and from the municipality. It's not obvious. Had we lived elsewhere, the situation could have been quite different for our son and our family. Unfortunately, I have too many concrete examples of this. So many sad stories have it been that as a decision maker I cannot sit still and watch that individuals and entire families almost go down because the struggle for a completely necessary follow-up takes all the strengths of an already tough life. I am therefore very grateful that some of the relatives I have met in the last few years follow this debate from the gallery today. You are really heroes who fight a hard fight against the system, be it the specialist health service, the municipality or the district that fails their closest. These include: on the lack of health care, understaffed and disadvantaged rehabilitation services, lack of early intervention, lack of language stimulation and training, unsustainable housing situation, unsustainable relief, lack of facilities in kindergarten, school or job, lack of competence, unnecessary forced use, no or minor user or family involvement. I could still infinitely and exemplified with stories from reality that soon don't seem to be the exception, but the rule. Fortunately, the exceptions are there, and for them, the system works pretty well. Research clearly states that too many parents and other relatives of children with autism are the greatest burden on the fight against the system. Too often families meet with arrogance, poor attitudes and low skills. This results for years, with poor offers, which gives it the right thing to do, often much more difficulty and disability. Of course, this concerns the family, which is often met by an auxiliaries characterised by poor management, poor competence and poor attitudes. Many miss to be taken seriously and not least that the user and family competence is used in the follow-up. We also see a picture of some politicians leaning heavily on their own administration and system, without their ability or willingness to reflect critically on what is happening. Unfortunately, we also have numerous reports on supervisory reports from state officials and state health authorities, which are also not satisfactorily followed up. There is simply a lack of a system to ensure effective quality assurance, control and correction of deficiencies. The question we might be able to ask ourselves is whether there is a need for more management, treatment and follow-up requirements and thorough quality control of both specialist health services and municipalities. I believe the answer to this question is yes. I am pleased that dedicated professionals from relevant professional environments follow the debate from the gallery together with the Autism Association and several employee organisations. They, together with the users and the relatives, know so deeply what is the system failure, and what it takes for this part of the population to be able to live a decent and good life. The light in the tunnel is just that we have this competence, but the problem is volume and capacity. Where the follow-up of our citizens with autism works, it is characterised by a high level of expertise from the specialist health services and municipalities: good guidance, not least early and correct efforts at all stages, good coordination between the specialist health service, the municipality and within the municipality, and good user and family involvement. Another prerequisite for success is to understand how broad the autism spectrum is and how complicated each individual is. In other words, it requires in-depth knowledge of each individual and of the field as such. A little simple can say that this is about will and not about ability. I look forward to this interpellation debate and the recording meeting with the actors at the gallery later today. I hope and believe that this can be the beginning of a political effort where one, together with users, relatives, stakeholder organisations, employee organisations and the professional communities in this area, ensures good, correct, equivalent and lifelong treatment and follow-up of children, young people and adults with autism. I have faith that this can succeed, but there is enough political action and initiative to achieve this. As far as I can see, this is not a partisan controversy, and it will be a strength if we can stand together on measures that can contribute to a real lift for some of the most vulnerable of society. I see that I have some time left. That's why I thought I'd end this post with some user stories that I got from the Autism Association. I can start with a 23-year-old girl who communicates via signs, text on iPad and symbols. She says, "I'm an adult. I don't like being treated like a child. I'm scared. A lot of people come in where I live. It's hard to choose, think and not get peace. I don't like to go to the movies, but I have to go." No freedom of choice, really. Man, 28 years old: ‘I live in a municipal block with the possibility of supervision. I have Asperger's syndrome and epilepsy. No contact with my family. In meetings with the municipality I was told to get together. I am asking for help for daily, practical tasks, cooking and hygiene. I can't organize any more, and I don't understand how I do the problems. I have become inactive, obese and often think that I have nothing to live for. It is strange that I do not know this since I know so much history, have good language and the diagnosis does not seem. My epilepsy is complicated, and I'm plagued by side effects. I don't have a job, no offers of help, no daily offers. I have been denied psychiatric assistance since I have an ASD." Good, 17 years old: ‘I have a lot of stress in my body. I need to rest, get peace during school. I've learned to read this year. My teacher listens to me and lets me think for myself, even if I think late. I get angry with trouble and that those who work with me treat me childishly. I want a job." Man, 63 years old: "I got my diagnosis five years ago. I have had 17 different employers, come into conflict and understand my poor colleagues. I have traveled from three consensual residents and five children." In the case of a boy, 4 years: «Our son is speechless. Our municipality has no knowledge of the EIBI, formerly TIOBA. We're out of the specialist health service. We don't get any training. He has little extra help in the nursery. We consider whether we need to tear up the family, quit jobs and move to a place we can get help, and where there is a willingness to provide services that would give him the opportunity for development and language." There are many more stories from reality. I think it's possible to do something about this and hope that this debate is the starting point for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-07.ana.ud138e170	I would like to thank the representative for addressing an important and important discussion. There are large individual differences between people with a diagnosis of the autism spectrum. Common to those who have such a diagnosis is that they have challenges of mutual interaction and communication with other people. Some work well and independently in school, work and leisure activities, while others with the same diagnosis will need organisation and follow-up throughout their lives. Families with children with autism often tell about demanding everyday life. Many have concerns and sorrows about having a child who is not doing as well as others. However, even more people talk about challenges facing kindergarten, school, relief and other support schemes. The provision of services in health and social, education and work is not well coordinated and availability and offers vary considerably. Every day can be arduous when a family member has autism and competence is required in the municipality in order to provide an offer to meet the family's needs. Annette Drangsholt, who is the leader of the Autism Association, says this about the demanding everyday life and the feeling of not stretching to: ‘Love and pride are easy to talk about for most parents. But there is not so much talk about a recurring and murmuring grief, nor the shame of not feeling that one masters or just knows of an infinite weariness many know about." There is great variation in how people with autism function in everyday life. Some people need intensive follow-up and organisation in kindergarten and school; others need help to master social situations and to live a self-contained life in their own homes. Although some municipalities make good efforts for people with autism, there is too much variation between municipalities in their skills, and the strain on the family may in many cases be greater than is necessary. People with autism often need long-term and coordinated services. The municipality shall draw up an individual plan and cooperate with other service providers on the plan to contribute to an overall offer. In the organisation of services, the municipality shall provide a coordinator. The coordinator shall provide the necessary follow-up of each user and ensure coordination of measures and services in housing, school and relief or through user-led personal assistant and in other arenas. The phasing-out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation points to a wide variation in the competence and capacity of the specialist health service for investigation, diagnosis and guidance. The Public Health Institute has shown that the incidence of autism-spectrum disorders varies considerably between the counties in Norway. Researchers believe that variations are likely to be due to different diagnostic practices. Parents experience waiting a long time for a diagnosis and that arrangements and other measures are not implemented during the waiting period. Habilitation services tell us that they are now spending more time investigating and diagnostics. We've been given a number of new opportunities in genetic research and advanced brain research. There is a need to ensure that persons with autism are effectively investigated and diagnosed in the specialist health services and well-follow-up in the municipalities. Interaction between service levels is required. The government will ensure that the specialist health service has capacity for investigation, but also that they can cooperate and guide those who follow up the users in the municipalities, among others. through several outpatient establishments. The Government has called for increased commitment to outpatient activities in the field of child and adult rehabilitation in the mission document given to health regions now for 2017. We'll follow up that they satisfy this requirement. The aim of the municipal reform is to create strong welfare municipalities with increased competence and capacity to discharge their responsibilities. In the Communication on primary health services, we discussed the need to ensure a good provision of habilitation services and services in the municipality for users with high and complex needs. Individual level, coordinator and interdisciplinary teams shall contribute to the good organisation of the offer to people with autism. The phasing-out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation points to key challenges in municipalities and sets out short-term and long-term strategies for meeting them. Incentives in the plan shall be used to develop the municipal services. There is already a positive development in some municipalities. The Hallingdal autism project has implemented measures to improve competence and will launch an inter-municipal resource team. Similar is being done in several municipalities. The Health Directorate has developed a national technical guideline on cooperation between the healthcare sector and the education sector when children and young people need coordinated assistance. This is a guideline that is a useful tool for municipalities. Autism is a diagnosis that requires lifelong organisation and follow-up. With a knowledge-based provision, security and continuity of service, many with this diagnosis can master everyday tasks. However, there is too much variation in the offer between municipalities, among other things. in the case of competence. Health South-East is responsible for the national competence service for autism and also has a strong regional competence service. These have close cooperation with the Autism Association and the Competent Environments in other health regions. Competence services provide guidance, training and professional support to hospitals and municipalities. The interpellant is entitled to the absence of a national professional guideline for the investigation and diagnosis of autism, but Health South-East has developed a regional professional guideline for the investigation and diagnosis of autism spectrum disorders in children, young people and adults. This guideline is used by a number of hospitals throughout the country. The regional guideline and other material supporting clinical practice in municipalities and hospitals are available to all at the health library.no On a written question in 2016, I replied at this point in time that the offer to children with autism should be improved. I assumed that improvement work would be carried out in cooperation between the municipality and the specialist health service, and not least in cooperation with the users. The representatives of Kønaas Kjos and the Ruiters have, among other things: have been aware that the availability of early and intensive treatment varies according to the TIOBA method. This method, meaning ‘early and intensive treatment based on behavioural analysis’, is a cooperation between specialist health services, the municipality and the parents. The specialist healthcare service has the professional responsibility for adapting the method to the child’s assumptions and progress. Kindergarten employees and parents receive specialist guidance, and municipalities shall provide the necessary resources to implement the method as recommended. The Nordic Hospital in Bodø has long had a strong autism team. The hospital is responsible for a working group across health regions that has developed an electronic technical procedure for early and intensive treatment. This is to be published in the Health Library.no for spring. Such a specialised procedure will be a good tool in reducing unwanted variation in the supply of early intensive treatment. There is a need to strengthen the services of people with autism-related disorders, both in specialist health services and in municipalities. Parents are asking for a comprehensive and coherent offer, and they want to avoid being the coordinator of their child to all different public services, even outside the healthcare system. We need to learn more from those who have found good models and solutions for people with complex needs. In my view, there are two equivalent partners in the family and public services, and the measures must be based on the needs of the users. The user's needs are ensured by agreements on guidance and clear responsibilities between municipalities and hospitals. Agreed actions are updated and followed up by a good coordinator using individual plans such as the tool to be used. That's the model we want to work, but that we have to recognise too little works throughout the municipalities and between the specialist health services and the municipality. I am therefore very pleased that we are getting this broad discussion on this theme in Stortinget today. I also want to get feedback from the recording meeting that will be later today, about what will come up with suggestions and recordings that we can work with together and follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-07.ana.ud138e219	It's not that often I boast of the Council of States, but now there's reason to do so. I think the Council of State shows an understanding of the problem, and also that the Council of State cares. It is a very good starting point for improving the supply of autism to children, adolescents and adults. I think the council here sums up in a good way. There are too many variations. There is a very often lack of early and proper effort. Long-term, coordinated services are lacking. A lot of kids, young people and adults and their families become caste balls in a system. I am very pleased that the Council of State is clear that the specialist health service should be dedicated in this area, because not everyone is. I am also very pleased that the Council of State is aware that the mission paper states that more outpatient activities should be carried out in the habilitation service. There's a lot of the solution. One of the main reasons why I'm taking up this interpellation today is that I have a hypothesis, and that hypothesis is that if the specialist health service is dedicated in this area, it's much easier to make it work in the municipalities. But if the specialist health service is only to diagnose these children and then throw the responsibility down on the municipalities, this does not work. We can see that. Where it works, the specialist health service takes an active role, a guidance role. Thus, it has not been said that it always solves the challenges, because we have to deal with them with a little bit of instruments as well. But that's a crucial factor in getting the municipal offer up in a good way. A lot of the stories, which I could have told you a lot about, but then I had to have a lot more time, are just about the fact that relatives and users are not equal partners in the dialogue with the auxiliaries. There are often horrendous conflicts, which are very unfortunate. This is probably very much about the competence of the recipient. I demand more humility and competence and welcome what the Council of State says here. There are many, especially municipalities, who should be concerned and take over what the Council of State said there. This is positive, and I'm of course going to be happy to inform the Council of State about the signals and the recordings we get at the recording meeting later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-07.ana.ud138e234	Thanks for the feedback. I look forward to having a good dialogue on the follow-up of recordings that are coming today. I think the interpellant is concerned about something very important when he also draws up a meeting as an equivalent party. Because it is clear that with regard to the way this is organised today, the situation – not least for parents – will often be very difficult because many will have a lot of knowledge about the situation for their own child, what alternatives are available, and what happens in other municipalities in other parts of the country. At the same time, a very good relationship with the municipality in which you live is very promising. Then, unfortunately, something happens to the power relationship, where a person often feels powerless in meeting the municipality, and where one also becomes concerned that if one is too ongoing, it will result in one not getting the offer that one is totally dependent on getting. There's a problem that we have to talk about and be open about. If we don't get to do anything about it, we don't get to do anything about it, and we don't get to do anything about it. the relief is offered and organised. I also fully agree that with regard to the challenges related to the competence of the different parts of the service, and in particular the services of the municipality, it is to have an available specialist health service that works out-of-office and that works out-of-office, one of the most effective and targeted tools we can have to balance inequalities in competence. We also have to take that into account, that between different municipalities there are different competences from before, both at school, in health care, in Nav and in other areas. The provision of a specialist healthcare service that is available and that can provide good guidance, follow-up and treatment along the way is important. I think – and that’s also my impression after contact with parents and others – that there’s a lot of challenges, and it’s our job to help find good and practical solutions to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-07.ana.ud138e245	First, thank the representative Freddy de Ruiter for raising this important question. It's sad, but I think it's a completely real situational description that the representative has given us in his post. I also want to express my thanks to Minister of Health Bent Höie for a good and satisfying answer, which shows that he and the government take seriously that this is a demanding question, and that it is demanding for many who have been hit. Children and adolescents with autism — and adults — experience very different and varying degrees of symptoms and difficulties. It's a rare diagnosis, and that's why it's also extra vulnerable. As there is no medical treatment for nuclear symptoms, training and organisation are the main means of helping children and families. There's also some of the things that make it extra vulnerable, because even if we're working to strengthen our skills, there's a lot of municipalities that don't provide enough help in this area. It is also very different how hospitals assist municipalities. We think it's bad that so many families are struggling, striving to be allowed to live a worthwhile life, even if you have challenges. I don't think anyone in this room today will ever wonder how important we think it is to raise this issue in order to try to do this better in the years to come. Especially because autism affects so differently, really the family's own knowledge, or the patient's own knowledge, is one of the most important things. It's really the most important resource, and that's why the patient stories that Freddy de Ruiter told us make an extra big impression. How are we going to help better? Well, we need more knowledge. We need a much more comprehensive offer in municipalities, and we need to develop models to cooperate much better between hospitals and municipalities, so that these children and young people — and eventually older ones — are guaranteed good quality help. But we also need to listen much more to the one who has autism: what is important to you? We're going to ask all patients in Norwegian healthcare, and it's just as important in this area. In the same way as the interpellant, I was very pleased that the Minister of Health said so clearly that he called for hospitals to follow up the habilitation and rehabilitation needs of these children better in the municipalities. We know that the relatives – the family around – are the largest resource, but they cannot and should not stand alone. Municipalities simply have to take a greater part of that responsibility. Then it is understandable that not all municipalities know exactly how to handle this, but then they have to seek knowledge, then they have to be interested in building services around the children and around the families and in collaboration with the specialist health service, which works. It could also be a little different from family to family, and it certainly challenges community health services, but for these children and for these families, we must strive to achieve that goal. We hope that the good discussion that we have so far had – and will have – today, is the beginning and the first step to make this area even better. In the right, we'd also like to have access to the recordings that come later today, because this is an area that captures us.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-07.ana.ud138e262	Providing all diagnoses with proper treatment and follow-up is demanding. I am constantly hearing about a single diagnosis where the offer does not go far enough. Therefore, these debates are important to take, as we are all concerned with equivalent rights and opportunities. We have had this debate on a regular basis in the last few years, and we have not been fully targeted. In 2008 – i.e. nine years ago – Minister of Health Sylvia Brustad replied, among others. following on a written question from the Vigdis Giltun of the Progress Party: ‘National networks of competence for people with autism have been reorganised. From 1 January 2006, this network is linked to health enterprises through the National Unit of Competence for Autism in Health South-East at the Rikshospitalet HF. From the same time, a regional trade union environment for autism has been established in all four health regions. The aim of this reorganisation and association with health enterprises is to strengthen the provision of services to all people with autism wherever they live, to build a competent network of services and to strengthen the overall chain of action.’ I find it difficult as a big-time representative to say whether this answer is good or not. As a rule, we focus on services, networks of expertise, unit of competence, the professional environment and enhanced response service. So why was or wasn't this good enough? Parents of children with autism still spend a lot of time and energy getting the help and follow-up they want for their children. Last year I sent a written question to the Minister of Health because I had also received a message of concern from a municipality located in the area of Health South-East. The municipality believed that they did not receive enough guidance from the hospital on how best to follow up. The Minister for Health replied, among other things: ‘The offer to children with autism in the region has recently been investigated by a working group’. And on the other hand, ‘The report of the Working Group proposed, inter alia, that the primary responsibility for investigation, diagnosis, treatment and follow-up be borne by one and the same unit within each morbidity area. [[2015]] [[health care]] ‘... And on the other hand, ‘Health South-East has a TIOBA network that has established cooperation with similar networks and professional environments in the other health regions. They hold annual meetings and conferences with recognised international speakers.» The Council of State also writes that Health South-East also certifies ‘instructors of a knowledge-based method called the Pivotal Response Treatment’, and that Akershus University Hospital has a comprehensive offer for children with autism and their families. The regional guideline on diagnosis is underpinned. The results of the investigation are disseminated in two meetings, first one with parents alone and then one with parents and local authorities. Recommendations for organisation, training and action are an important part of feedback meetings. In addition, the Council of State writes that: ‘Ahus has allocated additional resources for investigation and diagnostics in the autism field in recent years. At the request of individual municipalities, Aarhus has also offered a series of three group collections for relevant staff in the municipalities ». [[pedagogical]] Again, this is a full answer that is considered good. So why is everyday life so demanding? The answer is well on the way to the question of interpellant and is well on the way to the same answer as for very many other diagnoses: inequality between health companies and lack of competence in municipalities. Until recently, I have a hope that the municipalities will get it as they get the follow-up teams that Stortinget has adopted in the primary health notification, and that the empowerment for which the government has granted funds will have an impact. Furthermore, municipalities must follow up the requirement to draw up an individual plan and appoint a coordinator. Cooperation between specialist health services, the municipality and the parents must be put in place. The specialist healthcare service is responsible for adapting the follow-up to the child’s assumptions. Municipalities are responsible for implementing in line with the recommendations and providing the necessary resources. The right-wing Party government has taken several steps to strengthen rights and influence over its own treatment, for both its user and its relatives. It is about attitudes in many contexts. We cannot adopt good attitudes, but we can communicate over and over again that the voice of users and relatives should be heard and it should be respected. My hope is that the progress in this way of working can go a little faster, for the benefit of all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-07.ana.ud138e300	Thank you to the representative, who is having a very important debate. How society lasts the most vulnerable, says a lot about our welfare society. Interpellant suggests that follow-up of children, young people and adults with autism is very diverse. It depends on the number of cages and health services covered, and there is a lack of national guidelines. I want to raise this debate to a slightly wider perspective, because this also applies to all those who experience some kind of developmental inhibition or a chronic disease. I want to show that in 2014, a public selection was set up to analyse and evaluate the changes needed to ensure the fulfilment of basic rights for people with developmental disabilities. This legal selection appeared in October 2016, and the distribution was called on the same line. According to the selection, today’s situation is as follows: People with developmental disabilities are discriminated against in a range of areas of society, both through direct discrimination and through lack of adaptation and organisation. The best interests of children are not taken into account in the design and award of services to children with developmental disabilities and their families. Developmental disabilities are subject to coercion and restrictions without any necessary and factual justification. The developing world does not have real freedom to decide where and how to behave and how to bow. Developmental disabilities live and live in a way that increases the risk of being exposed to violence and abuse. Many adult evolutionary people do not have the opportunity to move out of their parents ’ home. Developmental disabilities have real possibilities to choose housing and form, and whether they will own or rent. Developmentally impaired cages often accumulate in segregated forms. The organisation and implementation of services for people with developmental disabilities undermines privacy and privacy. The care services are provided in a way that makes it difficult for individuals and their own families to develop. Developmental disabilities are not given help in caring for their own children. Developmentally impaired everyone does not receive training of the same quality as other elephants. Any evolutionaryally impaired area is not included in the normal sphere. Developmental disabilities do not have access to lifelong learning. Developmental disabilities do not have the same access to defence services as others. Many developmental disabilities are not allowed to decide on their own health care. The health and care services of the developing world are designed in a way that prevents one from deciding, including and participating in the community. Only 25 pst. of the developmental disability at working age is in employment. Developmental disabilities have little access to organised work. The selection proposes eight lifts necessary for the achievement of human rights in the same way as others. Each of the eight lifts contains a number of recommended measures to contribute to recovery. The eight lifts are: Self-destination and legal certainty – Norwegian legislation must respect and secure the rights of developing persons to freedom and to self-determination Inclusion and equivalent training Work for All Good health and care _Home: Competence and knowledge Coordinated Services Targeted control How is the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to be implemented in all relevant areas of society? Now the government has handed over this distribution, and it's the government that can send us a big message – one in all areas of society, not just in health, can say how one will strengthen this area, and how one can secure coordinated services for those with autism and for others who have a disease that needs more attention and better provision from the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-07.ana.ud138e340	Just like the others who have spoken, I would like to thank Freddy de Ruiter for lifting this topic. There is broad political agreement and understanding of the challenges we face. There's increased knowledge coming along, but the reality out there isn't good enough in relation to all the knowledge we have -- it's a good way to go. There's something special about diagnosis, because autism is so very different, and there's a lot of mysticism associated with it too. So this is an area where we need more knowledge, more care, more understanding, more predictability and also, I think, more hope. A lot of the others have been involved in descriptions that I fully agree with, so I choose to spend some time drawing out the art. Olaug Nilssen is a house dramatist on the National Scene, and she has just set up a piece called Big and ugly, inspired by Halldis Moren Vesaas' poem Voggesang for a change. It is about the parents of the demanding change, which is not “quadrant’s gold”, but who therefore need the love of their parents more than anything else. When she waited for her third child, she was told that her oldest son, who had evolved quite normally, suddenly changed behavior, and that it was no longer normal. Getting an autistic son has changed her perspective on life completely. Since her diagnosis, she has primarily been the mother, activist's mother, sometimes the roaring-lover-mother, in between the weary mother of three children, with little surplus. Today she works 20 pst. and is 80 pst. medically reported. She is not unhappy, but she is tired, and then clings to the hope that the son's training and music therapy will help. She has argued so much against the system to find a way forward that she has almost changed her personality. One of the most beautiful books I've ever read is Lars Amund Vaages Singga. He also had an autistic daughter. He is one of the foremost writers we have – an incredibly beautiful language, and he claims to be the parent of a child that you can't reach, but also the understanding that he has of seeing all the bright sides of his daughter, when he first reaches. I've been working with inclusive work, and I've seen a lot of tired parents, who get sick just because they don't get enough relief, because the challenge they have is not being seen. I've also been a school office, 15 years ago, and then I also saw the professional disagreement that was, where the parents mobilized and believed in a treatment method. But at that time, Health Bergen didn't have the network, so we didn't have a counterweight when we as the responsible municipality were going to try to find out about this. So it's absolutely essential that the specialist health service be able to get the expertise, listen to the parents and give them an understanding. Not least in this area, we need the interaction reform, because parents need to know what is right for their children. Is it to be included in the ordinary school, or is it best for them to be in special school? How much relief is it going to take? It's no defeat to have relief, because you have responsibility for both the rest of the family, for the one you live with, and to be the good parent of the child who needs love most of all. So within this field, we may need the interaction reform more than anything else. That is why it is so important that we have representatives like Freddy de Ruiter, who have known about this themselves, and are able to mobilise as many people as are present here, and that we have both a health minister and a committee that sees this so clearly. I don't have the whole recipe, but listening to each other and raising it up I think at least it's the right way to go. Finally, read the book Singing by Lars Amund Vaage, an amazing book. It gives a unique insight into parenting and understanding autism.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-07.ana.ud138e355	Thank you very much to the representative Freddy de Ruiter for putting this topic on the agenda, and also to the Council of State Bent Höie for taking the topic seriously. There is again the debate on resources that is not finding each other, and there are demanding system debates for us. I have sailed through life, as a teacher and in leisure clubs, youth clubs and in other ways, met people with autism and saw the incredible joy they have been able to show by participating and contributing something. I think that's also some of the key here. For some, of course, it's treatment, but for others, it's important that we create activity and enjoy the lifelong course. I think that is also one of the many relatives who are missing and struggling to find. If we take this down to the municipal level, we have 428 municipalities in Norway, and that's also a little bit of the challenge. In some municipalities there may be one born with autism every ten years, in other municipalities there may be one per year. It says something about how to get these resources to find each other. It probably sounds like an eternal repetition for those who depend on individual plan and don't make sense in it, but I think it's some of the key to getting those resources to come together. That plan must at least be there, but to a greater extent we must get to a national coordinating unit, so that parents and relatives who do not experience the resources in place will not run and knock on the door after door in order to get this to hang together. And that's where hospitals have an important role: they're the ones who have to diagnose, they're the ones who are on treatment and special skills, and they're the ones who should have an overview of which municipalities don't have the resources to deploy. We cannot expect today, with today's fragmented municipalities – whether it is a small or a large municipality – that everyone should have all the resources at the same time. To get this done is to expect too much. That is why it is so important that we get an interaction from above – someone has to be responsible for coordinating this. Early efforts are also very important. A lot of people have pointed it out. This applies to children with autism that applies to other children — they have a wonderful opportunity to learn. If they get filled up early, it's win-win for everyone – for the individual, for the relatives and for society at large. It is incredibly important to put the effort early, so the competence must also be there. But again – we can’t expect all municipalities to have that competence to the same extent. The representative Ruth Grung pointed to art and culture. I want to point to physical activity as one of the important activities. Putting it more into the system I think is important, but there we can't expect all municipalities to have a similar offer either. Children develop very differently, so there must be challenges that they can grow into and participate in. There's a lot of possibilities, and a lot of people need a lot of physical activity. The outpatient services are part of this, and that we are able to expand them to a greater extent is important. We need to focus more on user involvement – the parents who need to be trained. There we have a job to do in health companies and also in the municipalities, which I experience has a lot of inequality in schooling. We have to take the users on board and give them real influence. It's a big problem we're facing, but we also have good examples, and we have to use them to show that here it's possible to move forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-07.ana.ud138e374	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important matter. I think – like the others who have spoken here – that there is a broad cross-political consensus on the importance of this, but what I miss a little in the debate is some slightly clearer direction from the Council of State on what he thinks is the way to go. Coordination has been one of the themes addressed by parents, in this area and in a number of other areas throughout the year. Who's going to be responsible? Should there be a specialist health service responsible for coordination, or should it be the local health service responsible? And how do you follow this up, so that it actually happens? Two weeks ago, I met some adults who have this diagnosis. They say that the individual plane doesn't work. They don't get an individual plan, or they don't get to follow their plan. I don't think that's unique. What can we do to make it work? The representative, Kjeseth, says that there's resources that don't find each other. I think that's right in many places, but I think there's also a lack of resources. Now we see that many of the health companies, among others. Aarhus – which was mentioned here instead – now missing 135 million. kr, lacks money to balance its budget. How do we ensure the competence and capacity in this area in the hospital that is now being raised as a good example? How do we ensure that there is money for the skills we need, both in the specialist health service, in the community health service and in the schools? I think something can be solved by good coordination, but not everything. Discharge, e.g.It's a human being that has to relieve it. At school, there must be some teachers who have that competence. In the specialist health service, there must be some people who have that competence. I'm pretty sure it's also about prioritising this financially – more than what we're doing today. There are also questions about the national professional guidelines that have been developed, including: through Health South-East, where they say they can be used. Why don't we say they should be used, for example.? There could be one way to make this work better. Do you now have any professional procedures that are so good that you think it will be better – based on the current situation in the different municipalities or in the different health establishments? Like the others, I look forward to the recordings that will come after a hearing today. I hope that there can be quite concrete, good proposals there, because it really needs to be. But what's a challenge for us in the Great Britain and for the Council of State, is to make the systems that, after all, have been adopted today work. Then much had been done. The question is, in concrete terms, what does the government think about it? Now everyone has described that everyone really agrees that something should be done, and everyone really agrees on the problem description, but I've heard a little bit of what you actually intend to put in to improve this also in the short term – because here there are a lot of people who get a much more difficult life than what is necessary. Up through my years I have met many of these families, who have to sail as coordinator in a fragmented, public sector to help them. I have also met many of them with this diagnosis that is almost unwanted. It's terrible that we have a system that imposes on those who need help, a sense that they come there and almost bother. It's, I think, about attitudes, but I think it's also about the fact that you don't have the tools, the skills and the capacity to do it, either in the municipal sector or in the specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-07.ana.ud138e390	I think this is a good starting point. We have the same reality. I also think that we can figure out the right solutions. The last article, from Karin Andersen, also shows that it probably has to be a little bit more ‘driving’ in the future in the area, it might be a little bit more control, but we can do that now, on the way. I see some points that stand out quite clearly. It is that one needs enough national guidelines, one needs clarification in terms of funding, among other things. of the habilitation field. One also sees that the habilitation field is organized very differently around. One has to make sure that this is not grossly downgraded, as we look at a lot of hospitals today. It's a deliberate act, and as politicians we have to think of something, I think. We also need a policy that says that specialist health services should not only diagnose, but also operate with active guidance. I feel that the Council of State has signed out here today, and that is an important clarification. I also believe, as the representative Toppe says, that there are certainly many elements in the same line – as the Council of State also says about the rehabilitation message – that one should turn into a practical policy. It is clear that this field also has some transfer values to other fields. Solves a challenge in this field, solves a possible challenge in other fields as well. Then I have to add that there are many children, young people and adults with autism who also have e.g. developmental inhibition, which is then covered by the very good document called on the same line. I'm probably also missing a system to ensure quality in services. I see that as a society we are very good at the somewhat harsh, material values, it's offshore, it's economics and things like that -- there we are very good at ensuring the quality of services. But when it comes to people, we're not as good. The question is, how can we do this? Have we given too much "slack" to the municipalities? I think so. I think the statesmen are too much of a wing clip when it comes to e.g. to be able to control and quality assurance services in municipalities, in particular for the most vulnerable. But it is a political debate we must continue, a rather broad debate, I think. Then there is probably no doubt that the coordinator and individual level vary greatly from municipality to municipality – and almost from coordinator to coordinator and from user to user. If we had a little smoke in it and had it also made a better system and quality assured it, we would probably achieve quite a lot. Thank you very much for a good debate – I look forward to continuing to work on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-07.ana.ud138e407	Thank you for a good discussion and many important issues that need to be followed up. I just want to highlight a couple of points. Firstly, in the case of national guidelines, the Directorate for Health is responsible for assessing and quality assurance of their implementation, but there is no need to wait for national guidance on the provision of good regional health services from the largest health region, which is also used by several and easily accessible at the Health Library. They're just using. I am also pleased with the initiative taken between health regions, where it is now also being developed, under the auspices of the Nordlands Hospital, with electronic trade-union procedures for early intensive treatment based on behavioural analysis, which has now been called the EIBI. This will also be published by the Health Library in spring 2017. There is a joint project between the four regions, which can be put into service and thus also provide a similar service in the country. The challenge of the two good tools, individual level and coordinator – which the Stortinget has actually decided a long time ago, to which we are constantly coming back – is a challenge that we generally see in this area. These are tools that we know works where they're going, and they're a right that you have, but that's too little used in the municipalities, and there's too much variation. So this right over here is kind of the legal thing. What I can say is that I encourage those who feel that this is not working, to contact the patient and user representatives in their area and get help from them to have dialogue with the municipality. I think it can often contribute to faster results than going the long way to complaining to County and getting more of the legal part here – getting into a dialogue with the patient and user representatives, who now also have a responsibility in this area. Aarhus has strengthened the offer now in 2017. They have strengthened their section with two and a half posts, just to work with children with autism and in line with the leaders now given in the mission paper. I believe, as the interpellant also points out, that the follow-up to the 2017 mission to strengthen the outpatient services, the clarification that one is not only responsible for diagnosis, but also for follow-up, is important, and also the general work done to strengthen the quality of the municipalities and to make demands for competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-07.ana.ud138e420	The interpellant debate is closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-07.ana.ud138e434	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
